
                              1 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Md. lighthouse offered for Fla. home

BYLINE: Bill Smith, The (Fort Myers, Fla.) News-Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 311 words


A New Jersey native said he's willing to swap a lighthouse he owns near the
Chesapeake Bay in Maryland if he can get a house in Punta Gorda in return.

"I'm eccentric," said Ronald Lundgren, who said he has been visiting Florida
since 1957.

A Craigslist offer puts up his lighthouse and two cottages on a bay inlet in
exchange for a home in Punta Gorda or a nearby part of Charlotte County.

"Punta Gorda is three steps away from heaven," Lundgren said. "That lighthouse
was on a farm in Pennsylvania. I had them take it down and put it on the
waterfront."

A property investor who has dealt in marinas and developed land, Lundgren said
he considered settling in Cape Coral, but he describes city politics as
"unbelievably bad."

The lighthouse isn't used as an aid to navigation. It adds a nautical look to
the site of his cottages, which he has owned for a decade, and creates an almost
regal presence.

Denizens of Cecil County and area mariners know when Lundgren is home: That's
when he lights up the lighthouse.

After nearly two weeks of posting, he's received 17 inquiries.

The deal would be structured as a so-called section 1031 exchange, named under
an IRS code provision that allows tax-free exchange of some investment
properties.

A check of Maryland land records confirms Lundgren owns the property free and
clear.

He values the property at $135,000, but said nearby waterfront property has sold
for prices in the millions.

The Maryland property is decidedly seasonal but could match a snowbird
lifestyle.

"Its not insulated. You have to shut the water off at Thanksgiving and turn it
back on in the spring," Lundgren said.

If the right offer doesn't come through, Lundgren is ready to deal.

He's "pushing 80," so he's not interested in taking back a mortgage to finance a
purchase ("I can't wait 30 years").

He'll take your yacht off your hands. He'll even take a motorcycle.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              2 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

Edwards innovated at BYU;
Coach pioneered short passing game

BYLINE: Eddie Timanus, @eddietimanus, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 261 words


Modern football fans might find it hard to believe, but there was a time when
the forward pass was little more than an afterthought in the sport. LaVell
Edwards was among the innovators who helped bring it to the forefront.

Edwards, who died Thursday at 86, is practically synonymous with Brigham Young
football. He put the Cougars program on the map, winning 257 games over his
29-year career in Provo, Utah. He did it primarily with the controlled passing
offense he devised to counter the much bigger and more physical teams BYU would
face at the highest collegiate level.

The concept of using the short pass as a sort-of substitute for a power rushing
game has become common. But when Edwards took over at BYU in the early 1970s, it
was a fairly new idea to base an offense around quick outs and slip screens.
Such play designs are now seen at all levels, and Edwards deserves much of the
credit for developing them.

The success of the scheme helped grow the reputation of BYU as well as the
Western Athletic Conference for exciting, high-scoring football. The Cougars
went 13-0 and were voted national champions in 1984 after a riveting Holiday
Bowl victory against Michigan.

Ty Detmer brought home the program's first Heisman Trophy in 1990, and two of
Edwards' other students, Jim McMahon and Steve Young, went on to quarterback
Super Bowl champion teams. Gifford Nielsen and Marc Wilson also were high-round
draft picks.

His former assistants who've enjoyed considerable NFL coaching success include
Andy Reid and Super Bowl winners Mike Holmgren and Brian Billick.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              3 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

Walker's killer workouts pay off;
Florida State end strives to be best

BYLINE: Corey Clark, @Corey_Clark, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 682 words


DeMarcus Walker looked at me like I had lost my mind.

The Florida State defensive end was describing his offseason conditioning this
week when he casually mentioned "throw-up Mondays."

He talked about how he would push his body so far past its limit, in the brutal
heat of a Florida summer, that he inevitably would vomit during the workout.

Walker knew it was going to happen. When he showed up on those Mondays, he knew
that by the end of the session his stomach contents would be all over that field
in Jacksonville. He did it anyway.

Which led to the question that led Walker to do almost a double-take.

Why?

Usually we're doing anything and everything not to throw up, but Walker was out
there making sure he did.

"Because I wanted to be the best," he said. "I knew it was going to take time
and I knew it was going to take a lot of hard work.

"I just love perfecting my craft. I love getting better. I hate pain, but I love
pleasure. So the sacrifices I have to make to prevail, I don't mind doing it."

That was clear every Monday.

It's a mind-set most people  aren't born with. We can't relate.

Wanting something so bad, having so much conviction, that you put up with that
kind of pain? Voluntarily? Remember, these weren't Florida State workouts.
Walker was doing them on his own.

"My trainer planned those Mondays where we would push the sled 5 yards, got to
run back 5," Walker said. "Push the sled 10yards, got to run back 10. Push the
sled 15, got to run back 15. Then push the sled 30.

"Sled gassers were the worst. I wanted to fight him those days."

He would vomit instead.

Participating in something called "throw-up Mondays" isn't normal. And that's
probably what stands out most about Walker. He isn't normal.

By the end of someone's sophomore year, we usually have a pretty strong idea of
what kind of career he'll have. We've seen enough by then to know if there's
anything to be excited about, if there's an NFL future.

With Walker, we had no idea.

He had two sacks total in his first two years. It looked like he was going to
have an average college football career. Nothing to really remember.

But Walker wasn't about to go out like that.

As a junior, he burst onto the scene with 101/2 sacks and 151/2 tackles for
losses. By the end of the season, he was the best player on the defense.

And that wasn't nearly good enough for Walker. He wanted to be the best player
in the country.

So he got bigger, faster and stronger. He took yoga classes in the offseason to
improve his flexibility. He endured "throw-up Mondays." He was laser-focused on
becoming the top defensive end in the country.

Now,  Walker is a consensus All-American. Heading into Friday's Orange Bowl
against Michigan, he is second in the nation with 15 sacks. He has 171/2 tackles
for losses.

He also has been the team's unquestioned leader.

And that's really what Walker's legacy will be after he plays his final game in
garnet and gold Friday.

Yes, he was a dominant, game-changing defensive end. But that doesn't tell the
whole story.

Think about what all of the younger players on the Florida State roster have
learned just by watching Walker.

Here's a guy  who hadn't accomplished much of anything individually after two
years. Now he's leaving as one of the all-time greats in Florida State history.

Think about what his story says about work ethic, about drive, about
self-belief.

After the 2014 season, the only person who truly believed in Walker was Walker.
The rest of the country hadn't even heard of him.

Cut to Thursday's Orange Bowl news conference when Michigan coach Jim Harbaugh
was asked about Walker.

"I think he's their best player," Harbaugh said. "One of the best players we've
seen. He's a real outstanding player."

Walker's  teammates have heard about hard work and dedication all their lives.
But those words are practically abstract. For players blessed with great
athletic ability, it can be hard to quantify what hard work really is.

You know what isn't hard to quantify?

Throw-up Mondays.

But that's what makes Walker who he is.

Clark writes for the Tallahassee (Fla.) Democrat, part of the USA TODAY Network.


LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              4 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

You can skip warming up your car's engine, mechanics say;
Modern auto systems make this winter ritual obsolete

BYLINE: Dan D'Ambrosio, Burlington (Vt.) Free Press

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 523 words


Here's a winter driving tip for you: Don't warm up your car engine.

There's no need in this modern era of fuel injection and on-board computers.

Thirty seconds, a minute at the most, and you're good to go, no matter the
weather outside. That's how long it takes for the oil to get from the bottom to
the top of your engine, where the moving parts are.

So says Chris Lague, service writer at Partner Tire & Service in Colchester, Vt.
Lague has been everything from a certified master technician to a business
manager at a dealership, spending 23 years in the car business.

"Manufacturers will say about 30 seconds and then you can start driving," Lague
said. "Most cars are engineered now so they'll actually warm up faster if you
drive them than if you just let it sit there."

Kristen McIntyre, a stay-at-home mom in Essex, Vt., said she was aware that
modern engines don't need to be warmed up. McIntyre has another reason for a
quick, idle-free getaway.

"Because of the environment," she said.

Vermont enacted a statute in 2014 that prohibits idling for more than five
minutes out of any 60-minute period, with some exceptions, including health
issues, frosted-over windshields and food refrigeration. "It so happens cars fit
their law," Lague said.

Dale Franklin, owner of Partner Tire, knows better than to think everyone will
agree with his service writer.

Franklin, who used to do a radio spot called the "Partner Car Care Minute," said
even when the spot was about something he believed was "definitive," colleagues
would track him down on the street to tell him he was wrong.

It didn't take long on an afternoon stroll through Burlington Town Center to
find someone who didn't agree with Lague.

Bill Brisson, 54, said he warms his car up for eight to 10 minutes on cold
winter mornings.

"At zero or 10 below, that (engine) oil is still like molasses," Brisson said.
"You don't want to start the car and start going down the road immediately. Let
the crankshaft pull the oil to the top of the heads and warm up."

Run out to the car  real quick, start it up, go back in the house and finish
your last sip of coffee, throw on your shoes and your coat, and you're out the
door in eight to 10 minutes, Brisson said.

"I'm old school," he said.

Exactly, says the 41-year-old Lague.

The old school hearkens back to the days of carburetors -- the fuel-delivery
system that preceded fuel injection, and  required warming up on cold winter
days.

In the cold, old days, Lague said, you had to wait 10 minutes before you even
thought about getting into your car.

"It would be warm a few miles down the road, maybe," he said.

Unless you're driving a vintage 1960s muscle car with a carburetor instead of
fuel injection, no warm-up is required, despite what Brisson and others like him
believe, according to Lague.

"People our age were trained under people older than us,"  he said. "This is how
it was done under carburetors, so this is how it has to be done now. That has
pretty much gone by the wayside. It's time for the newer generation, this
generation, to say, 'Look, this is the way it is now. Computers have taken over.
As far as getting warm, just drive it.'"

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Don Ryan, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              5 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Infiniti pushes self-driving tech forward in QX50 SUV;
Latest system boasts a 'co-pilot' with navigational aids

BYLINE: Chris Woodyard, and Mark Phelan, USA TODAY and Detroit Free Press

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 375 words


Infiniti plans to unveil a sleek new SUV concept at the North American
International Auto Show in Detroit next month that will show off both its design
and technology prowess.

The midsize QX50 is one of the brand's most important vehicles since demand for
crossovers and SUVs isn't just limited to the U.S. anymore. Amid relatively low
gas prices, motorists around the world are craving more space and prefer the
higher seating position. The new design "shows how Infiniti could develop its
future presence in the fastest-growing vehicle segment globally," says the
brand's president, Roland Krueger, in a statement.

The design builds off the styling of Infiniti's recently introduced Q60 sports
coupe. The technology inches Infiniti closer to a self-driving car, which parent
Nissan hopes to market by 2020.

But Infiniti is being careful not to imply that it is self-driving -- yet.
Rather it describes its ProPilot system as acting as a "co-pilot" for the driver
by helping with navigating the car through slow stop-and-go traffic or watching
out for other cars on the highway. Infiniti, with vehicles that have digital
drive-by-wire systems, has been a leader when it comes to lane-keeping
technology on highways, one of the precursors to self-driving cars.

The concept will also use Infiniti's potentially revolutionary turbocharged
engine with a variable compression ratio. Infiniti claims the 2-liter,
four-cylinder engine is production ready and combines the horsepower of a
high-output gasoline engine with a diesel's fuel efficiency and torque.

The variable compression system can shorten or lengthen the pistons' stroke to
change compression ratios depending on whether the car needs maximum performance
or efficiency. Infiniti hopes to generate 268 horsepower from the engine and a
27% increase in fuel economy  vs. a similarly powerful V-6.

The concept's styling features smooth sides that appear to be devoid of door
handles, a large grille and unusual wheels that contain some spokes that are
straight and others that curve and almost appear bent. A long roofline creates
the impression of a roomy passenger compartment.

The concept draws inspiration from the Q60, the sports coupe introduced last
year that drew attention for its bold styling.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Infiniti

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              6 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Pacifica plugs in to families' needs;
With 30 miles of electric- only range and few tradeoffs, this minivan makes
sense

BYLINE: Chris Woodyard, @ChrisWoodyard, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 543 words


It has been a long time since the humble minivan has attracted this much
attention.

Minivans, after all, are supposed to be fuddy duddy. Once popular family
haulers, consumers have moved en masse to SUVs and crossovers. But Fiat Chrysler
Automobiles is pouring a lot of attention into its minivan -- trying to portray
them as high-tech wonders.

Its focus is on the latest generation of the minivan that it tried to load with
so many new features and innovative styling that it gave it a new name, the
Chrysler Pacifica, banishing the old name, the Town and Country.

Just in the past week, Chrysler has been touting its deal with Waymo, the
spun-off self-driving car division of Google, to convert 100 Pacificas into
prototype autonomous vehicles. And for consumers, the Pacifica now not only
comes in the conventionally-powered version, but a plug-in hybrid as well.

The plug-in is a noble effort. With 30-mile electric-only range and relatively
few tradeoffs, this minivan makes sense. When the batteries run dry, there's a
3.6-liter V-6 gas engine that can take families as far as they want to go. All
in all, Pacifica Hybrid is as green of a plug-in as they come, with a government
rating of 84 miles per gallon equivalent. That's only slightly less than the 89
MPGe rating of a top-of-the-line Tesla Model S sedan.

Driving around Culver City and Los Angeles for an afternoon of highways and
hills, the Pacifica Hybrid was easy to drive, confident enough in its handling
--  but no speedster. It has 260 horsepower, which was adequate for everything
it needed to do. It is, after all, a minivan.

The surprising part is that it did all this while toting around the extra weight
of batteries and its dual gas-electric powerplant. The battery pack alone adds
350 pounds  to the weight of the conventional minivan. But the pack is placed
low in the vehicle, which helped  with stability.

Batteries take up some space underneath. Unlike the conventionally powered
Pacifica, the plug-in hybrid doesn't have the stow-and-go seats that fold flat
in the second row in order to make space for the batteries. But it's a
relatively small concession. Overall, the minivan remains roomy and practical.
Chrysler boasts that there's still enough space for it to haul 64 sheets of
plywood.

The Chrysler Pacifica starts at $43,090, including $1,095 for delivery. That's a
hefty premium over the conventional Pacifica, with a starting price of $29,590,
including $995 in destination charges. Even when you throw in the $7,500 tax
incentive for the plug-in -- many buyers, though not all, will be eligible --
there's still a wide gulf between the hybrid and conventional price.You'd need
massive gas savings to make up the difference.

In the end, it's a nice, fully featured minivan -- and a
good-for-the-environment plug-in hybrid.

WHAT STANDS OUT

Plug-in: Good for up to 30 miles of electric driving

Stability: Those batteries are kept down low, which helps handling

Practicality: Still a great hauler

AT A GLANCE

What? A plug-in hybrid minivan

When? Coming to dealers now

Where? Built in Windsor, Ontario, Canada

How big? 17 feet long

What makes it go? A 3.6-liter V-6 engine and nine-speed transmission plus
battery-powered electric motor

Overall? A plug-in minivan turns out to be a great idea

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo photos by fiat chrysler automobiles

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              7 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Amazon, Walmart sued over RUN-DMC trademark;
$50M lawsuit claims products imply that band endorsed items

BYLINE: Kevin McCoy, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 287 words


Amazon, Walmart and other retailers are being sued for $50million for allegedly
infringing on the trademark of iconic rap and hip-hop group RUN-DMC.

The stores "are trading on the goodwill" of the band and confusing consumers by
"advertising, manufacturing, selling and distributing multiple products" that
erroneously imply the group endorsed the merchandise, according to the lawsuit
filed Thursday in U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York.

Examples include old-school black-frame glasses often sported by Darryl
McDaniels -- best known to fans and music lovers as DMC -- one of the band's
founders and the trademark's owner, the lawsuit charged. He owns 200 pairs of
similar glasses, "the better to see what's going on in the world," according to
an entry on the band's official website.

An exhibit filed with the court complaint also showed shirts, hats and other
merchandise like some worn by McDaniels, Joseph "Reverend Run" Simmons, and
Jason "Jam Master J" Mizell when the trio shot to music and cultural stardom
from their 1980s start in the Hollis, Queens neighborhood of New York City.

The band members, inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2009 for a
string of hits that include "It's Like That," "My Adidas," and "You Be Illin,"
no longer perform together but are widely considered as rap elder statesmen.
Mizell died in an unsolved 2002 shooting.

"The number of infringing materials" allegedly marketed and sold by the
companies "are too numerous to properly list," according to the lawsuit, which
alleged the retailers' actions have "harmed RUN-DMC in its business."

The companies either could not be reached or did not immediately respond to
messages seeking comment on the lawsuit.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo file photo by KRISTA NILES, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              8 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Left for dead, these tech companies are still kicking;
Come- backs are a rarity in the fast- moving corridors of Silicon Valley

BYLINE: Jon Swartz, @jswartz, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 425 words


Iconic TV shows have a way of emulating life.

Silicon Valley captured the gestalt (uncomfortably so) of, well, Silicon Valley
today. Mad Men chronicled advertising on Madison Avenue in the 1960s. Breaking
Bad looked at the underground business of meth labs in the 2000s.

The Walking Dead has company in tech: Once high-flying start-ups left for dead
are alive and kicking, pivoting to new markets, redefining themselves or simply
soldiering on.

This month, Zynga announced a new mobile action game it insists will lead to a
return to dominance. Anonymous app Whisper has pivoted to become a media
company. And the company behind live-streaming app Meerkat has rebooted a new
popular app among those under-25. Even Myspace, the king of zombies, is still
kicking.

Exhibit A: Life on Air, whose wildly popular live-streaming app Meerkat was a
sensation at SXSW in 2015 before the emergence of Twitter's Periscope and then
Facebook Live, has quietly renamed its app as Houseparty, a group-video chat
app, in February. It's been a fixture in the Top 10 in the App Store for a few
weeks, with more than 1 million users daily.

"As an independent company, we had to change the direction of our company," said
company CEO Ben Rubin, who categorized Houseparty as a new product, not a
relaunch. The live-video app, he said, "(brings high school and college
students) together in the best possible way when they are physically apart."

Comebacks are a rarity in the fast-moving corridors of Silicon Valley, where
today's groundbreaking idea is tomorrow's "so-what."

Only a few companies have successfully rebounded from marketing missteps, a glut
of competition or products that fizzled after briefly shining brightly.

Apple and Priceline.com are among those to have persevered -- Apple under Steve
Jobs and a new hardware roster; Priceline under adroit acquisitions.

"It is really hard for social companies, which is all about your identity and
friend group, to remain popular," says Travis Katz, a former Myspace executive
who is now CEO of travel site Trip.com. "Once (a consumer) decides (they) don't
want to interact in that space, it's hard to go back -- it's like going back to
an old girlfriend."

And yet the demise of onetime sensation Whisper, for example, has been greatly
exaggerated. Its 30 million monthly active customers open the app almost 20
times a day and spend about 30 minutes on it, according to the Venice,
Calif.-based company, which opened an office in New York for its growing ad
business after deals with Coca-Cola, Universal Studios and Dove.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Justin Sullivan, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              9 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Farewells to Carrie Fisher, Debbie Reynolds;
Hollywood family finds itself coping with a double loss

BYLINE: Maria Puente, @usatmpuente, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 774 words


The  funeral arrangements for Carrie Fisher may be delayed as her stunned family
now has to plan a possible double funeral to include  her movie-star mother,
Debbie Reynolds, who died Wednesday at age 84 of an apparent stroke just a day
after her daughter's death at age 60.

Here's the latest:

The arrangements: The planning that had started Wednesday for Fisher's funeral
was interrupted when Reynolds suffered a stroke at her son Todd Fisher's Beverly
Hills home.

Now it seems likely it will be a double funeral; Fisher and her mother were so
close, especially in recent years, that they lived next door to each other.

What is  unclear: Will it be a grand Hollywood production or small and private?
The number of Hollywood notables -- from the vintage era represented by Reynolds
to the Boomer era represented by Fisher -- who will want to pay respects has now
multiplied.

On Thursday, Todd Fisher tweeted a touching message and drawing of his mother
and sister from the back, arm in arm, Reynolds in a raincoat and carrying an
umbrella,  Fisher in her Star Wars costume and her Princess Leia side buns.
"This is a beautiful love story to witness in my 58 years. I miss them both so
much. Love is everlasting," his message said.

What caused Reynolds' death? As with Fisher, there is as yet no official cause
of death, and it's not clear whether autopsies will be  done by the Los Angeles
County Medical Examiner's office.

Todd Fisher said his mother was grief-stricken by his sister's death  Tuesday,
four days after she had a heart-related medical emergency on a flight from
London to Los Angeles International Airport.

"She wanted to be with Carrie," Todd Fisher said.

Reynolds' health failing?  Carrie and Todd Fisher had said Reynolds had suffered
strokes in the recent past. Carrie Fisher acknowledged that her mother had
suffered health setbacks in an interview in November  on NPR when she was
promoting her latest book, The Princess Diarist. She also talked about how much
she admired her mother.

"There's very few women from her generation who worked like that, who just kept
a career going all her life, and raised children, and had horrible
relationships, and lost all her money, and got it back again," Fisher said.
"She's had an amazing life, and she's someone to admire."

In an  interview with People in May, while discussing her upcoming HBO
documentary, Bright Lights: Starring Carrie Fisher and Debbie Reynolds, Fisher
also talked about her mother's health. "It's a lot of times terrifying, but
watching my mother, who's incredibly resilient, coping with certain health
issues that she's had," she said. "We were really lucky we got really what
probably could be her last (big project)."

Reynolds was due to accept a humanitarian award at the Oscars this year but
could not attend because of her health. Her granddaughter, Billie Lourd,
accepted it on her behalf.

"We're very proud of her. She's handling this with amazing strength," he said.
"Obviously, we are all heartbroken. Everybody is doing their best to pull
together, but it's just a shock."

Singin' in the Rain soars: It was the 1952 movie classic ranked by the American
Film Institute as the greatest movie musical of all time, and it made Reynolds a
star. She danced her toes off, flanked by Gene Kelly and Donald O'Connor, on the
Good Morning sequence, jumping on an ottoman, leaping onto a bench, skipping
down stairs and, most impressively, keeping up the tapping alongside two of the
greatest and most athletic dancers of their time. On Thursday, Singin' in the
Rain was No. 1 on Amazon's best-sellers list for movies and TV.

Meanwhile, as sales of Carrie Fisher's books soar since her death (on Thursday,
three of the top 10 books on Amazon's "Movers and Shakers" list, which tracks
upward movement in sales over 24 hours, were by Fisher, including The Princess
Diarist at No. 1), HBO will present an encore of her  Wishful Drinking stage
production, based on her memoir of the same name.

The encore will be Sunday  (9-10:20 p.m. ET/PT) on the main HBO channel.
Debuting in 2010, this feature-length adaptation of the book has Fisher telling
the complicated tale of her life, featuring her raucous one-woman stage
performance, interviews with family and friends and archival footage. The
special received two Emmy nominations.

And cable network Logo TV announced it will dedicate Friday and Saturday
programming to Reynolds, including a seven-hour Will & Grace marathon (Reynolds
played Grace's mother); her episode as a guest judge on RuPaul's Drag Race; an
episode of Roseanne featuring Reynolds (and written by Carrie Fisher); and
episodes of Golden Girls featuring Reynolds.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jason LaVeris, FilmMagic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

QB Watson, offense expose best defenses

BYLINE: Paul Myerberg, @paulmyerberg, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 5C

LENGTH: 317 words


What's the simplest reason Clemson will defeat Ohio State and advance to the
national championship game Jan. 9?

Because the Tigers have Deshaun Watson and the Buckeyes don't.

With all due respect to Ohio State's J.T. Barrett, Alabama's Jalen Hurts and
Washington's Jake Browning, the Tigers have the best quarterback in the College
Football Playoff.

More than ever before, success in this sport is driven by elite quarterback play
-- and Clemson will get just that from Watson, as it has throughout his three
seasons under center.

But that's not the only reason Clemson should defeat Ohio State to meet
Washington or Alabama, with the latter potential pairing a rematch of last
season's title game.

The Tigers are outstanding on offense altogether and never better when Watson is
finding one of his many talented wide receivers. The best is junior Mike
Williams, an All-America honoree, but Watson can also distribute the football to
junior Artavis Scott and sophomores Hunter Renfrow, Ray-Ray McCloud and Deon
Cain.

Finding big plays downfield against the Buckeyes secondary would open things up
for running back Wayne Gallman, who has eclipsed the 1,000-yard mark in each of
the last two seasons. That the Tigers can be electric in both offensive phases
will stress even Ohio State's top-notch defense.

Where Clemson might truly excel in the matchup against Ohio State is in the
trenches, with a defensive line that features a wave of 300-pound behemoths in
sophomore Carlos Watkins, senior Christian Wilkins and true freshman Dexter
Lawrence.

If these linemen win up front, forcing Barrett and the Buckeyes passing game to
move the football alone, Clemson might just cruise to a double-digit win.

That might be easier said than done. Still, Clemson seemingly has more avenues
to victory than does Ohio State, which must find a way to force Watson into
mistakes and slow down the Tigers' high-powered offense.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Joshua S. Kelly, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Ballhawks play well beyond their years

BYLINE: George Schroeder, @GeorgeSchroeder, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 5C

LENGTH: 334 words


The moment we understood Ohio State's immense potential came early, on the
season's third weekend. When the Buckeyes boarded the plane for a flight to
Norman, Okla., 30 players on a 74-man travel squad were either redshirt or true
freshmen.

It was, Urban Meyer said, "alarming, a bunch of guys going on the road (for the
first time)."

But after a 45-24 rout of Oklahoma, the alarm bells began to sound around
college football. Never mind all of those guys lost to the NFL draft (12, all in
the first four rounds). Or that only six starters returned. The Buckeyes clearly
had the talent to contend, again, for the College Football Playoff.

The only thing that has changed since then is that those youngsters have grown
up.

It's a cliché, but Ohio State has every chance to win the Fiesta Bowl against
Clemson because Meyer didn't so much rebuild as reload, adding uber-talented
players to a small but vital leadership nucleus. The result: a potent mix of
talent and motivation that very much resembles the Buckeyes of two years ago --
when, you might recall, they won the national championship.

Ohio State's ballhawking defense scored seven touchdowns, second only to
Alabama. At least as important, it stuffed opponents' running games and played
best in the biggest games (see Michigan, which averaged more than 200 rushing
yards but managed 91). With junior quarterback J.T. Barrett leading the way --
and with versatile receiver Curtis Samuel and freshman running back Mike Weber
supplying plenty of highlights -- Ohio State averaged 480 yards and 40.2 points.

It's possible the Buckeyes could be a year away from being well, spectacular.
But they won in 2014 with a roster filled with similar talent that emerged a
year ahead of schedule -- and unburdened by the weight of expectations that
accompanied them the next season.

But that might not be such a bad thing. All together, the formula allows a fast,
physical bunch to play free. It's why Ohio State has every shot to win the
Fiesta Bowl -- and maybe more.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Greg Bartram, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Knack for turnovers bodes well for Huskies

BYLINE: Dan Wolken, @danwolken, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 5C

LENGTH: 348 words


Among the few who have given Washington a chance to beat Alabama in Saturday's
Peach Bowl, the most popular rationale is Chris Petersen's history at Boise
State of pulling upsets against more talented opponents, particularly when his
teams had time to prepare.

But a trick play here or nice adjustment there isn't going to be enough to
prevent the Crimson Tide from winning their fifth national title in eight years.
Washington is going to have to find an advantage somewhere and exploit it
against a defense that allows a meager 2.03 yards per rush and doesn't let teams
drive up and down the field.

Fortunately for the Huskies, their potential advantage is a big one: turnover
margin. Washington's defense created a nation-leading 33 turnovers this season
while its offense committed only 12, a statistic that provides the most
plausible path to winning.

The caveat is that turnovers are a highly variable factor from game to game, and
it's possible Alabama will play clean football Saturday or benefit from a lucky
bounce if one of its skill players happens to fumble.

But Washington's secondary is an experienced, talented, ballhawking group that
came up with 19 interceptions. It's facing a freshman quarterback in Jalen Hurts
who isn't a polished passer and has shown a propensity to be loose with the ball
at times, throwing eight interceptions over Alabama's final eight games.

If the Huskies can cobble together 17 points and avoid turning the ball over
themselves, they'll be in the game entering the fourth quarter. We know Alabama
is a terrific front-runner, but it's uncertain how this team and its
inexperienced quarterback would react if it was pushed to the limit because
nobody in the Southeastern Conference was good enough this year to do that.
Maybe, just maybe, putting Hurts in a pressurized situation will finally expose
his inexperience if he has to make throws to win a football game.

When Saban says Washington is the best team Alabama has played this season, he's
not blowing smoke. And if the Huskies force turnovers at their typical rate,
they just might prove it.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jennifer Buchanan, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Hurts, defensive front have rolled all season

BYLINE: Nicole Auerbach, @NicoleAuerbach, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 5C

LENGTH: 347 words


Alabama has been college football's most dominant program for much of the last
decade, which not coincidentally coincides with Nick Saban's tenure as coach.
Not only has Saban cemented himself as one of the game's all-time greats by
winning four national titles in the last seven years, but he also has shown a
willingness to adapt to the game's changes as well as an ability to win in very
different ways.

The best example of that? True freshman quarterback Jalen Hurts, whose skill set
would not have worked nearly as well in older iterations of the Alabama
pro-style offense -- or even in the evolving versions in place just two or three
years ago.

Under third-year offensive coordinator Lane Kiffin, this offense has implemented
more run pass options, zone read and other spread elements that force defenses
to account for every single playmaker on the field instead of zeroing in on one
star running back or dynamic wide receiver.

Because Hurts is such a phenomenal athlete, he makes things even more difficult
for opposing defensive coordinators. He's able to extend plays with his legs
even when all of his receivers are covered. But if an opponent emphasizes
stopping his scrambling or designed quarterback runs, that likely opens up
opportunities for the passing game.

It turns into a pick-your-poison situation, all because Hurts is built perfectly
for Kiffin's spread system -- and he's good at limiting his mistakes.

But the greatest and most obvious strength of this Crimson Tide team is the part
of the Alabama identity that hasn't evolved in recent years: its defense.

Saban's team again has one of the most dominant defensive units in the nation.
Once again, there are plenty of future professional players littering the field,
highlighted by defensive end Jonathan Allen and linebacker Reuben Foster, who
could both go in the top five of next year's NFL draft. And, once again, it
seems difficult to imagine anyone -- in this case, Washington -- being able to
get much offensive production against this Alabama front seven, the nation's
most terrifying unit of its kind.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jason Getz, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Sarkisian is latest project for Saban

BYLINE: Nancy Armour, narmour@usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 728 words


As Steve Sarkisian's past and future intersect at the Peach Bowl, sightings of
the man himself are rare.

It is a vanishing act by design, his way of bridging a gap that once looked to
be a chasm that would swallow up both man and coach. By spending time in Nick
Saban's shadow, he has reclaimed the bright future he had all but squandered
after a messy firing at Southern California brought on by alcohol abuse.

"I was really excited for him," said Alabama offensive coordinator Lane Kiffin,
who persuaded his friend to come to Alabama this fall and will pass his headset
to him when the season ends and he leaves for Florida Atlantic.

"He's had a rough road here."

Kiffin and Sarkisian were the brightest stars on Pete Carroll's staff at USC,
helping lead the Trojans to the 2003 national title. Kiffin's career nosedived
after failed head coaching stints with the Oakland Raiders and USC; Sarkisian
had a steady rise.

He revived a moribund Washington program that had won 12 games in the five years
before he arrived, going 8-4 in his fifth season. When USC dumped Kiffin during
the 2013 season, Sarkisian was the logical replacement.

"I think we were surprised at first," Washington senior offensive lineman Jake
Eldrenkamp said. "But I don't think anyone was surprised he wanted to get back
to USC."

On the field, Sarkisian succeeded, with nine wins his first season back in Los
Angeles, but his life was unraveling off of it. His wife filed for divorce. He
appeared inebriated at a booster event before the 2015 season, slurring his
words and using an expletive.

By mid-October last year, he was asked to take a leave of absence amid reports
he showed up intoxicated for team meetings. He was fired the next day, receiving
the email dismissing him while on his way to rehab.

"People can say what they want about him, but I don't think people really know
him," said Washington receiver John Ross, who raves about the coach he used to
battle in dominoes. "He's a really good dude, and it's just good to see him back
on his feet."

Sarkisian was sober, young -- he'll be 43 in March -- and considered one of the
finest offensive coaches around, but the offers did not exactly roll in. The
split with USC was messy, with Sarkisian suing the school for wrongful
termination and discrimination.

But one person who reached out was Saban, whose five national titles have earned
him carte blanche of sorts to take risks and give second chances. He didn't have
any openings on his staff but, sure, Sarkisian could come work with the
defending national champs as an "analyst."

"There's a lot of folks out there that have made mistakes in their life before,"
Saban said Thursday during media day at the Peach Bowl. "When they work hard to
try to take advantage of any future opportunities, I think that should be
recognized."

Saban might seem an unlikely sort to be a savior, dour in personality and
exacting in his standards. Yet his compassionate streak is equally fierce.

Alabama has become college football's version of a halfway house under him, a
haven for once-promising coaches who have torpedoed their careers. Kiffin,
current assistants Mario Cristobal and Tosh Lupoi and now Sarkisian have picked
themselves up with Saban's helping hand.

"I think sometimes we like to condemn people for a mistake or something that's
happened in their past," Saban said. "I sort of would rather take the approach
that, 'Is this something I feel can be a positive for us and is not going to be
an issue for us?'"

Sarkisian's job description is nebulous, and clarity is impossible since Saban's
assistants are rarely allowed to talk to the media. This week is an exception,
with media sessions mandated by Playoff organizers.

But Sarkisian remains exempt because he's not a full-time staffer; though he was
named the offensive coordinator Dec. 16, he does not take over until Kiffin
leaves. Until then, he is seen only at practices, and it is left to others to
expound on his redemption.

"I've known Sark for a long time. Always had a tremendous amount of respect for
him," Saban said. "Having him with us for three or four months this season
certainly taught me a lot about the kind of person that he was and how he is
managing and battling the issues that he's had in the past."

Sarkisian can't do anything about that past, but it no longer has to dictate his
future. He will decides where life takes him.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

A flying warehouse? Amazon is aiming high

BYLINE: Brett Molina, @brettmolina23, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 286 words


And you thought getting packages by  drone was cool.

An Amazon patent available through the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office details
plans to create an "airborne fulfillment center." Basically, a flying warehouse.
Details on the April patent were uncovered by CB Insights  analyst Zoe Leavitt.

The patent says the warehouse could remain at a high altitude, and drones "with
ordered items may be deployed from the center to deliver ordered items to
user-designated delivery locations."

The patent says shuttles could deliver more inventory to the warehouse, as well
as transport employees.

Images accompanying the patent feature a blimp as the chosen airship for the
fulfillment center, although it's not clear the vehicle will be part of Amazon's
final design.

Amazon envisions using this concept beyond delivering customer orders. An
example used in the patent details how the flying warehouse could be deployed
during an event such as a football game. The warehouse could stock items such as
sporting apparel or food, then relocate near the event, so customers could order
items and have them quickly delivered by drone.

The patent says that in some cases, the fulfillment center could "navigate to a
lower altitude and provide advertising."

The details of the patent cap what has been a wild month for Amazon, which
delivered its first package by drone this month. The test was completed in the
United Kingdom.

When it's not working on delivery technology, Amazon is opening grocery stores
without checkout lines. The company is testing out the concept in Seattle. Users
tap their smartphones as they enter the store to log in and  add items through
an app. When the customers walk out, the app charges their Amazon accounts.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Clemson's window closing;
Time is now for Tigers, who could lag in '17

BYLINE: Paul Myerberg, @paulmyerberg, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 940 words


Urban Meyer can admit now that there was a moment last offseason when he felt
his mind drift toward 2017, when a gifted yet largely untested Ohio State team
would acquire the sort of experience seemingly required to win the national
championship.

"I try to avoid that all the time," he said of that mind-set, but it was almost
unavoidable: Ohio State had the pieces to win the national title, yet the core
of its roster leaned toward youth and inexperience. After all, the Buckeyes had
lost 16starters from last season's team, including an NFL-record 10 players
taken in the first three rounds of April's draft.

"This young team is going to be a mature team," Meyer said, but it would be a
process, and the process might take time.

Saturday, however, the Buckeyes will meet Clemson in the Fiesta Bowl, two wins
shy of the program's second championship during the Meyer era. These facts are
not incompatible: Ohio State can at once be young, maybe a year ahead of
schedule, and still be in line for a national title.

"It sounds so cliché, but you don't rebuild, you reload," co-defensive
coordinator Greg Schiano said, and so the Buckeyes have. At Ohio State, one of
college football's truly elite programs, the window never closes; it might widen
one year and shrink the next, but it's forever open, and perhaps never more
consistently so than during Meyer's five-year run.

"It's just the culture," senior center Pat Elflein said. "It's a freight train.
You know and you have trust that it's going to get done."

There are many themes and trends that bind Ohio State with Clemson, from
offensive philosophies rooted in similar concepts through a tenacious approach
to talent evaluation and development. Yet as the two teams prepare for the
national semifinal, there is one crucial difference.

The first team, Ohio State, can feel confident in its ability to make a return
trip to the College Football Playoff in 2017 and beyond -- to match this year's
success again and again despite a changing cast. The same program is built upon
a mentality: As good as we are today, we'll be even better tomorrow.

"There's always a next group ready to go," cornerbacks coach Kerry Coombs said.
"So we're going to have guys going this year, the NFL is going to take 'em, and
you know what? We're going to replace them with really good guys and get ready
to play."

The second team, Clemson, should hold no misconceptions. There is an immense
sense of urgency surrounding this program, driven by the idea that as good as
the Tigers are today -- and they're superb, guided by one of the most talented
rosters in college football -- it might never get better than this.

In other words, and in contrast with Ohio State, there is no tomorrow for
Clemson, nor any dreaming of what might lie ahead. What makes this year
different is how a rare confluence of positive factors, from the talents of
quarterback Deshaun Watson and his NFL-bound cohorts through the ability to
maintain a surprising degree of continuity on the coaching staff, might not be
replicated.

"We realize how fragile a season it is and how huge of an opportunity we have,"
senior linebacker Ben Boulware said.

After this season, the Tigers will lose Boulware, center Jay Guillermo, tight
end Jordan Leggett, cornerback Cordrea Tankersley and defensive tackle Christian
Wilkins, all  seniors. It's widely expected that juniors Mike Williams, Artavis
Scott and Wayne Gallman will give up their final seasons of eligibility to enter
the NFL draft.

As will Watson, this season's Heisman Trophy runner-up and, according to
quarterbacks coach Brandon Streeter, "a one-in-20-year kid."

"That's what I've been saying to people, because that's what he is," Streeter
said. "We're in a neat time. It's pretty special."

Watson will be impossible to replace, even if the Tigers hold verbal commitments
from top-ranked quarterbacks in each of the next two recruiting classes. He is a
transcendent talent, one with the ability to turn a great team or program into
an elite one -- as he has as a sophomore and junior.

This is not to say that Clemson is going anywhere, particularly given how the
Tigers have won countless toe-to-toe battles with college football's traditional
elite for some of the nation's top recruits. Having made such strides under
coach Dabo Swinney, the Tigers have no plans on relinquishing their seat at the
table.

Three years ago, for example, there were fears that Clemson would tumble back
toward irrelevance after the departure of quarterback Tajh Boyd, wide receiver
DeAndre Hopkins and running back Andre Ellington -- yet that group's level of
success drew Watson, Williams and others into the program, and the process was
renewed.

"We're really excited about the next chapter," said Jeff Scott, Clemson's
co-offensive coordinator and wide receivers coach.

And like Ohio State, the Tigers staff has grasped the sport's shifting
landscape, where it has become more and more common for talented underclassmen
to depart for the NFL rather than complete their eligibility. "You can't think
in a traditional four-year cycle," Schiano said of the Buckeyes' approach.

More talent will come to Clemson, as it will to Ohio State; five-star prospects
will replace five-star prospects. But the Tigers should be aware of what's at
stake: This window for championship contention might have an expiration date.

"So the challenge, really, for that group is that this thing is going to end at
some point," Scott said. "Y'all have accomplished a lot of unbelievable things,
have set national records, school records, ACC records, but at some point this
thing's going to end.

"The question is, how do we want it to end?"

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jeremy Brevard, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

STARS STAY WITH TIDE;
In long run, delaying pro careers helps players, Alabama

BYLINE: Dan Wolken, dwolken@usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1192 words


As he prepared for the College Football Playoff last year, linebacker Ryan
Anderson believed he was about to play his final two games for Alabama. Though
he technically wasn't a starter among the Crimson Tide's historically deep front
seven, a strong close to the season had made entering the NFL draft after his
junior year a real option, particularly given the lure of guaranteed money and
what it could do for his mother, who raised Anderson and four siblings by
herself.

But like so many Alabama players of late, Anderson had to make a calculation:
Leave after a championship and get paid, or come back to try for another title
and possibly get paid even more after another year in the NFL factory that Nick
Saban's program has become?

"I wanted to be able to take care of my family," Anderson said. "But I sat down,
and my mom told me, 'I've been good without having X, Y and Z this long, so it's
not about me.' It was my decision, and that just made me feel a whole lot
better. That was the ultimate decision when she said she wanted me to come back.
That was it."

As if Alabama didn't already have every advantage in the current era of college
football, from the best facilities to the biggest support staff to the most
championship rings, it has another. Whereas many of the Crimson Tide's
competitors have been gutted in recent years by early departures to the NFL, the
new trend at Alabama is for players to pass up the promise of millions and
finish their eligibility with the expectation that it will pay off a year later.

"This is the next step to the NFL, and it's almost ran like an NFL organization,
so coming back here you can never go wrong," said O.J. Howard, who could have
gone pro last year after his breakout performance in the national title game but
chose to come back and could be the first tight end picked in 2017. "You're
going to get better and compete with the best every day and compete in the big
games, so there's nothing wrong with coming back. You really have nothing to
lose."

'Stay as long as you can'

The resonance of that message is a major reason Alabama rolled into the College
Football Playoff with a dominant 13-0 record and stands in sharp contrast to
Ohio State and Clemson, its biggest rivals on the national stage over the last
two seasons.

Shortly after Alabama beat Clemson 45-40 to win its fourth national title in the
last seven seasons, six juniors who started on Clemson's defense declared for
the draft, though only one of them, defensive end Shaq Lawson, was a lock to be
picked in the first round (three others were drafted in the second round). Ohio
State suffered a mass exodus of nine juniors, including star running back
Ezekiel Elliott and defensive end Joey Bosa. Even UCLA, a team that wasn't much
of a factor nationally, had six players turn professional with eligibility
remaining.

Meanwhile, only two Alabama players came out early: Heisman Trophy-winning
running back Derrick Henry and first team All-America defensive tackle A'Shawn
Robinson, who surprisingly fell into the second round. The rest of the draft
decisions all fell in Alabama's favor, including Anderson, Howard, defensive end
Jonathan Allen, linebacker Reuben Foster, linebacker Tim Williams and safety
Eddie Jackson.

It raises a natural question: Why are highly rated draft prospects at Alabama
largely staying for their senior years when the national trend is skewing more
toward leaving at the first opportunity, given the money and risk factors
involved?

"Guys who've been at Alabama, the former players, they tell the guys to stay as
long as you can," defensive coordinator Jeremy Pruitt said. "Obviously sometimes
from a business standpoint you have to make a decision, but I think that has
something to do with it.

"I think it starts with the environment. Kids have fun. They believe in what's
going on. I asked Jonathan Allen, 'Why did you decide to come back?' And he
looked right at me and he said, 'I trusted (Saban). I got to where I'm at by
doing the things he said and believing in him and what goes on here, and he got
the information I needed and I trust him.'"

Time to improve stock

It's clear that Saban's advice on whether players should stay or go is a big
part of the equation. Some could view it cynically and say a coach whose
$7million-a-year salary depends on wins and losses shouldn't be advising unpaid
college players to pass up guaranteed money, but Saban approaches it as a value
proposition.

And when difference between guaranteed salary for first-round picks and those
taken in the second round can be millions of dollars, it's worth careful
consideration for those who have the potential to enhance their stock.

"I think the biggest thing we try to do with our players is we try to get them
to make a quality business decision," Saban said.

"You can't improve your value once you get in the draft. It is what it is, and
what a lot of people don't realize is everybody wants you to come out for the
draft, but once you say you're in the draft every team looks for reasons not to
draft you.

"They're making a significant investment, and they want to make sure they're
getting quality for what they want to invest in, so if guys can improve that as
college players, that's certainly something we would like for them to do, and
we've had a significant number of guys that have done that and come back and
improved their draft value.

"We've had guys who have gone out because it was the right thing for them to do,
and they've done extremely well.

"Every case is different, and I think our players, because they've seen both
sides of this, sort of understand the business side."

Allen, who received a second-round grade from the NFL draft advisory board last
year, is the embodiment of that analysis as ESPN's Mel Kiper Jr. now rates Allen
the No.3 overall player.

If he ultimately gets drafted somewhere in that range, Allen's decision to come
back will guarantee him at least $16million more on his first contract than if
he had been an early second-round pick.

Though Allen said he didn't necessarily put pen to paper and do the math on how
much money he was passing up last year, he took out an insurance policy and
looked more at the long-term ceiling rather than the risk of getting injured or
playing poorly.

"There's a risk in anything," Allen said. "I felt like there was more to gain by
coming back than there was to lose. I knew I could make more money if I came
back, but I just focused on what I had to do to improve my draft status. I
wasn't happy with a second- or third-round grade."

That mentality has fed on itself at Alabama and created a situation that allows
Saban not only to beat his competitors on the recruiting trail with a string of
top-ranked classes but also lose fewer players after their junior years, a
double whammy for programs trying to knock off the Crimson Tide.

"Thankfully we have a coach around here that shoots us straight, and he cares
about us enough to tell us when to come and when to go," Anderson said. "It's a
no-brainer when you think about it.

"You can sell yourself short, or you can go back and get what you've worked for
all your life. That's the ultimate payday."

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo John David Mercer, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

With Schilling, Hall case is complicated;
Baggage carried post-career mars solid credentials

BYLINE: Jorge L. Ortiz, @jorgelortiz, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 726 words


Curt Schilling was one of the top starters for three World Series championship
teams during a 20-year career that took  time to get on track  but featured
several impressive seasons once he reached his 30s.

Long remembered for his October exploits -- an  11-2 postseason record and a
2.23 ERA, plus co-MVP honors in the 2001 World Series and the bloody sock game
in the 2004 American League Championship Series -- Schilling made the first of
his six All-Star teams at 30 in 1997.

That set in motion an eight-year surge in which he averaged a 16-9 mark with a
3.24 ERA, 228 innings pitched and 243 strikeouts for the Philadelphia Phillies,
Arizona Diamondbacks and Boston Red Sox while pitching in the heart of the
steroid era.

The case for

Schilling's rare combination of power and command is reflected in a
strikeout-to-walk ratio of 4.38 that is the best since 1900. Among the 16
pitchers with at least 3,000 career strikeouts, he and  steroid-tainted Roger
Clemens are the only ones not in the Hall.

Schilling overcame losing the better part of two seasons in the prime of his
career -- 1994 and '95 -- to injuries and the players strike, becoming a better
pitcher and a workhorse who twice led the league in innings after that.

He won more than 20 games three times in four years and finished second in the
Cy Young Award voting all three times. Only Randy Johnson and Nolan Ryan
compiled more 300-strikeout seasons than Schilling's three.

In 2004, it was Schilling -- even more so than future Hall of Famer Pedro
Martinez -- who at 37 anchored the rotation for the Red Sox club that ended the
franchise's 86-year championship drought. His seven innings of one-run ball in
Game 6 of the ALCS, a 4-2 victory that tied the series 3-3 against the New York
Yankees, cemented his legend in Boston. Schilling pitched with a torn ankle
tendon that bled through the sock in his right foot.

The case against

Schilling was overshadowed by surefire Hall of Famers Johnson and Martinez,
lending credence to the notion he was less staff ace and more of an excellent
No.2.

He also comes up short on the win total with 216, remarkably low for such an
accomplished pitcher over a 20-year career. It might be unfair, but an average
of less than 11 victories a season does not conjure thoughts of a Hall of Famer,
particularly considering his career ERA of 3.46 is on the high side.

And though Schilling finished in the top four in the Cy Young voting four times,
his failure to win pitching's top prize takes some luster off his candidacy.

Look-alikes

Baseball-reference.com doesn't do Schilling any favors by lumping him with
distinguished but not Hall-worthy pitchers such as Kevin Brown, Bob Welch, CC
Sabathia and Tim Hudson in its Similarity Scores. Bill James' Hall Monitor goes
in the opposite direction, ranking Schilling, with 171 points, ahead of
enshrined pitchers such as John Smoltz (162) and Juan Marichal (159). A score of
130 points is considered a near certainty for entry into Cooperstown.

Somewhere in between those two is Schilling's performance in Jay Jaffe's JAWS
scoring system, which assigns him 64.5 points, or 2.4 more than the average Hall
of Famer at his position.

X factors

As a player, Schilling evoked admiration for his preparation and determination
and for the kind of off-the-field contributions that led to his winning the
Roberto Clemente and Branch Rickey awards.

His persona in retirement, though, has earned him legions of critics. Schilling
has established a pattern of making inflammatory statements against Muslims and
transgender people, typically via social media. He also expressed his hearty
approval of a tweet that advocated lynching journalists.

Voters try to keep their personal feelings about a candidate -- say, the way he
treated the news media -- separate from worthiness. But the  nature of
Schilling's comments extends beyond  individual grievances and brings into
question his character, one of the considerations on the Hall  ballot.

Consensus

Schilling not only sabotaged his broadcasting career with the way he repeatedly
expressed his political views but also continues to damage his chances of
entering the Hall with offensive statements and a penchant for picking fights
with journalists. If his voting numbers dip below 50% this year (he was at 52.3
last year), he might find it hard to reverse his candidacy's downward momentum.


LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo 2007 photo by H. Darr Beiser, UsA TODAY SPORTS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

Musician may get shot with Buckeyes

BYLINE: Nina Mandell, @ninamandell, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 274 words


It started as a bet with the loser buying the winner Chipotle.

Austin Brizee, a junior who plays in the Ohio State marching band, bet a friend
he could kick a 55-yard field goal. It seemed  a safe bet for his friend. Brizee
had never kicked a field goal until this week. He played soccer, baseball and
golf in high school. And he watched from the sideline of Buckeyes games during
his two years with the  band. But when enticed with the possibility of free
burritos, he  went for it.

"I kept going back and kept on going back and finally hit the 55-yard one, and
(my friend) happened to get it on film," he said. "But we were just out there
having fun."

It might have gotten him more than free Chipotle.

The video was posted on the the marching band's Twitter account, asking the Ohio
State football team, "You guys need a kicker for Saturday?"

The team's assistant director of player personnel, Eron Hodges, replied Brizee
"definitely has a tryout invitation" sometime after team returns from Saturday's
Fiesta Bowl. A win vs. Clemson will put the Buckeyes in the Jan.9 national title
game, so a tryout likely would come after that.

Brizee said he'd probably have to quit the marching band if he made the football
team -- a rare accomplishment for someone who didn't play the game in any sort
of organized fashion in high school. But that's a bridge he'll cross if he gets
there, he said.

"For the most part everyone just thinks this is crazy," Brizee said of his
friends' reactions. "No one would have ever thought I would have gotten a tryout
just from kicking field goals in the athletic center."

As for the free burrito?

He said he's still waiting.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

Recruits not entirely sold on early signing periods

BYLINE: Jim Halley, @jimhalley, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 635 words


Todd Sibley knew all along he intended to play football at Ohio State.

The running back from Archbishop Hoban in Akron, Ohio, committed to the Buckeyes
in the spring of his sophomore year, but when he was asked to possibly grayshirt
his freshman year, delaying his entry at Ohio State, he had second thoughts.
Last June, he switched his commitment to Pitt.

Proposed NCAA rule changes put forth in October would allow players to sign in
June after their junior year or in December of their senior year, in addition to
the February signing period that already exists for seniors. The two early
periods would each be three days.

The proposals are expected to be voted on in April by the NCAA board of
directors. Knowing what he knows now, Sibley would never recommend an early
decision.

"I would have waited," Sibley said. "I think signing early can change a lot of
things for a kid. You never know what can happen between signing periods with
all the coaching changes and program changes. I really don't like the idea of
signing early."

The biggest sticking point of the proposal for many players at the Under Armour
All-America Game is the havoc a coaching change can have on a player's career.
New college coaches might not be as sold on an early signee and could bring in
an offense or a defense that doesn't fit as well with a player. This year, 18
new head coaches have been hired at Football Bowl Subdivision schools.

Cesar Ruiz, a center at IMG Academy in Bradenton, Fla., didn't want to be one of
those players who changed his mind, so though he's going to enroll early at
Michigan, he didn't make his commitment official until Dec.19.

"In June, I was really undecided," Ruiz said. "As a recruit, if you want to sign
in June, sign in June. As for whether I would recommend it, no. I just feel like
if you're somebody with a lot of offers, you should enjoy the process. Take all
of your visits and make your mind up from there."

Central Catholic (Pittsburgh) offensive lineman C.J. Thorpe, who committed to
Penn State in April, said the only way a June signing makes sense is if a player
would have enough time to make official visits before signing his national
letter of intent.

"Even if I could have signed in June, I probably would have waited to go on my
visits, to solidify everything," said Thorpe, who has visits planned to Penn
State and UCLA before signing day. "If they had allowed the time for earlier
visits, I might have gone early."

IMG Academy linebacker Dylan Moses, a first-team All-USA linebacker, said the
early signing period might be a better decision for a three-star recruit rather
than a five-star.

"If they were to do that before the season, it's good if you're sticking with a
commitment and you're all about the school," Moses said. "For a three-star, (an
early signing period) is a good thing because you don't have to worry about a
coach taking a scholarship away or coaches moving you out of the way. But for a
five-star, they should take their time and look at every school, every chance
they get and watch closely."

High school coaches see more positives than negatives to the early period.

Bishop Gorman (Las Vegas) coach Kenny Sanchez said the early signing period
might mean fewer distractions for his senior players.

"The good thing is if the kid signs early, there are less distractions for them
during the high school season," Sanchez said. "Now, they commit and they feel
like it's out of the way and sometimes with social media, they stop getting all
these hits during recruiting and they miss it, so they start looking around and
decommit. On the other side, if you (sign) in June and your coach gets fired in
September, then you're stuck, especially if you committed because of that
coaching staff. If you (sign) in June and the coach gets fired, they should open
it back up."

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Tim Heitman, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

POISED FOR REBOUND; U.S. OIL COMPANIES RISE AGAIN;
While jobs may increase, gas prices could end up higher

BYLINE: Nathan Bomey, @NathanBomey, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 415 words


American oil producers, battered by rock-bottom prices in 2016, could be poised
for a big comeback and the prospect of creating new jobs for oilfield workers.

The downside? Gasoline prices could head higher for consumers.

After the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and several non-OPEC
nations agreed to slash production starting in January, oil prices have spiked,
fueling hopes among oil producers that the U.S.'  temporarily downtrodden energy
sector will shed 2016's blues in the new year.

After a record-setting number of bankruptcies for North American energy
exploration and production companies in 2016, the sector is poised to reap the
benefits of oil's rebound and a massive increase in productivity powered by
technological improvements.

In response to the OPEC action, U.S. shale oil producers are likely to boost
production by anywhere from 600,000 barrels per day at a price of $55 to 1.1
million barrels per day at a price of $60, according to Macquarie analysts Vikas
Dwivedi and Walt Chancellor. On Thursday, the benchmark U.S. crude was trading
midday at $53.71 a barrel, down  0.65%.

"There's ample room for producers to expand in response to higher prices," said
Rob Haworth, investment strategist and commodities expert at U.S. Bank Wealth
Management. "That's the hard part here for OPEC -- they're trying to get the
market into balance, but the wild card they've created is a more vibrant shale
industry here in the U.S."

This year has been wickedly difficult for North American oil exploration
companies, what's typically called the "upstream" end of the oil business, which
bled profusely as oil tumbled below $27 per barrel in February, having lost
nearly half of its value in about four months.

The commodity's steep descent triggered thousands of layoffs as about 50 of
those North American companies filed for bankruptcy in the first half of 2016,
according to the Haynes & Boone Oil Patch Bankruptcy Monitor report.

But that pace slowed to a trickle in the second half of 2016, with only 18
companies filing for bankruptcy. And in the first two weeks of December, only
one company did so, according to Haynes & Boone. After reaching 31% in 2016, the
oil exploration industry's average loan-default rate is projected to hit only 4%
in 2017, Fitch Ratings analyst Joan Isi Okogun estimated. "The pipeline for
restructuring candidates has thinned out, and oil prices are showing some
stability following the OPEC announcement," Okogun said in a research note.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Getty Images/iStockphoto

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Sign us up for smart, savvy 'Small Admissions';
There are life lessons to be learned at the select Hudson Day School

BYLINE: Mary Cadden

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 335 words


Set against the backdrop of a prestigious New York City day school, Amy
Poeppel's debut novel is a book about rejection, acceptance and our ability to
maneuver between the two.

In Small Admissions (Atria, 356 pp.,  *** out of four), Kate Pearson is a
bookish young woman whose life appears to be planned out.

The daughter of a pair of eccentric cultural anthropologists, Kate has decided
to attend grad school for biological anthropology after graduating from
Wellesley.

Fast-forward two years and Kate is a shell of her former self. Having abandoned
her postgrad work, she is recovering from a broken "almost" engagement with the
very French Robert and is living in a sublet as a less-than-successful dog
walker.

Kate's sister Angela arranges a job interview for Kate at the admissions office
at Hudson Day School.

After a bumbling, comical sit-down, Kate is hired. At Hudson Day she learns to
navigate not just the ups and downs of being an admission officer, but of life.

Author Poeppel has been on both sides of the interview process, as an admissions
officer at a private school and as a prospective parent. Novels inspired by real
life can get bogged down in trivial details or veer off into slapstick.

But Poeppel's tenor is just right. She delivers a perfect balance between the
totally believable -- awkward student interviews -- and the truly absurd -- a
tense showdown involving parents and firearms.

Kate must mediate between over- and underwhelming applicants (mainly
middle-school age) and their overbearing parents.

At times you wonder if any of the parents promoting their children have actually
met them.

And at other times the feelings of parental love and wanting what's best for
their kids  are palpable.

We can actually feel the birth of helicopter parents, watching them take flight.

If Small Admissions has a lesson, it's that rejection does not have to be
absolute. What appears to be an obvious failure may turn out to be a blessing in
disguise, as both Kate and these anxious parents come to learn.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo George Baier

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BOOK REVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

High-strung 'Mick' manages to offend everyone;
With few laughs, there's not much to redeem this show

BYLINE: Robert Bianco

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 500 words


If you're going for outrage, at least try to linger on amusing somewhere along
the way.

It seems clear The Mick (Sunday, 8 ET/5 PT, then Tuesdays, 8:30 ET/PT, *1/2 out
of four), a Fox comedy starring It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia's Kaitlin
Olson and created by two of that FX series' producers, is trying to be an
equal-opportunity offender. You have Olson's Mickey, a poor, hard-drinking,
lawbreaking  "degenerate" and her equally low-life boyfriend for those who want
to sneer at the lower classes. You have her rich-snot sister Poodle and Poodle's
clench-jawed crowd for those who want to sneer at the upper classes.

Oh, and just for added fun, you have  Hispanic maid Alba (Carla Jimenez), whom
Mickey alternately abuses and befriends,  serving as both dupe and dope -- and
who, for good measure, gets squeezed into a pair of too-tight pants, just so the
show can work in a weight joke.

Add it all up, and what you actually have  is a bad case of sibling envy as Fox
stretches for the kind of edgy comedy that has drawn praise and attention (if
not always ratings) to sister network  FX. What you don't have is anything fresh
or funny, or any  reason to watch.

The premise here is as old as Auntie Mame and as recently reused as recently as
ABC's quickly canceled Uncle Buck. After introducing her as she strolls  through
a convenience store eating food and putting powder down her crotch (just to
establish her bad-girl bona fides), Mickey shows up at her rich sister's
Connecticut mansion to beg for money. What she gets instead is temporary custody
of her sister's kids after Mom and Dad get dragged off by the FBI for fraud.

So even though Mickey has,  until  now, shown little interest in the needs or
desires of other human beings, she decides to parent her three new charges.
(They're all spoiled and damaged, because on TV, rich kids almost invariably
are.) They're Sabrina (Sofia Black-D'Elia), who will go to Yale if she can work
it into her busy schedule of insulting Mickey and humping her hot boyfriend;
Chip (Thomas Barbusca), whose  beating by a bully is played for laughs; and Ben
(Jack Stanton), a 7-year-old with an eating disorder who gets temporarily hooked
on Mickey's birth control pills.

If that sounds hideous, well, so is everything else about this series, including
the writers' random efforts to make Mickey less hideous as she predictably
softens and bonds. Or sometimes: The Mick can't be bothered with character
consistency, so relationships change on a whim from scene to scene.

Through it all, Olson mugs aggressively, flailing her arms and bugging out her
eyes and doing her best to inject some energy into a dead concept. Now and then
she manages to squeeze a tiny bit of humor out of a line or bit (as does
Jimenez, working against even greater odds), but it doesn't happen frequently
enough to matter. Which makes The Mick yet another huge waste of time and money
that might have been far better spent elsewhere.

You want to get outraged, get outraged over that.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Fox

DOCUMENT-TYPE: TV PREVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

THEY SAID WHAT? THE STARS' BEST QUOTES

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 161 words


"When I turned 40, I felt like I got this free software upgrade that I wasn't
expecting. It just happened. Suddenly I was like, 'Oh, this is fantastic: I
don't care! I like myself, and I'm just going to live my life. I'm going to stop
worrying and tearing myself down.'"

-- Gwyneth Paltrow to 'InStyle' for  its February issue

HOW WAS YOUR DAY?

GOOD DAY Ellen Pompeo

The actress and her husband, Chris Ivery, have welcomed their third child, a
son, Eli Christopher. The couple were spotted hiking Wednesday in L.A. with
their eldest daughter, Stella Luna, 7, and their newborn.

BAD DAY Trey Songz

The singer was arrested Wednesday night after an onstage outburst  in Detroit,
where he headlined with Chris Brown at Big Show at the Joe. The singer  is
accused of throwing various items from the stage and causing a head injury to a
police officer.

IT'S YOUR BIRTHDAY WHO'S CELEBRATING TODAY

Ellie Goulding is 30.  Caity Lotz is 30. Tyrese Gibson is 38.

Compiled by Mary Cadden

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo FilmMagic
Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LIFELINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Cruise giant heads to NYC

BYLINE: Gene Sloan

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 117 words


New York City is about to become home to one of the world's biggest cruise
ships.

Norwegian Cruise Line revealed in December that its  4,200-passenger Norwegian
Escape would begin sailing out of Midtown Manhattan in April 2018, becoming the
largest cruise ship ever to be based within the city's five boroughs.

Norwegian said the  1-year-old vessel, its largest ever, would reposition to New
York from its current home in Miami to operate seven-night voyages to Bermuda
through September 2018. The ship then will switch to seven-night sailings from
New York to the Bahamas and Florida. Longer voyages to the Caribbean also are
planned.

At 164,600 tons, Escape is the seventh-largest cruise ship in the world.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Norwegian Cruise Line

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Airfare deals: Not pie in sky

BYLINE: Rick Seaney

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 281 words


If you plan on flying in the new year, here are some shopping tips:

1 When to buy

When shopping for domestic flights, check prices on Tuesday afternoons. Most
U.S. carriers  release sales  Tuesday mornings, and competitors quickly drop
fares to match the better deals (so they don't wind up on page 10 of your
airfare query).

2 When to fly

Weekdays are still generally cheaper times to fly than weekends. In the U.S.
specifically, the cheapest days are typically Tuesday, Wednesday and Saturday.

3 Where to fly

Good deals to Boston and Denver are hovering, along with, increasingly, nice
prices to Chicago, Seattle and Washington, D.C. As for Europe,  incredible deals
available throughout the fall are likely to continue into  winter. Lately we've
seen prices fall for London, and Dublin, Paris and Scandinavia remain good
values.

4 Non-stop vs. connecting flights

Adding a stop might save you money -- and it might be enough to endure the
extra-long flying day.  Examples:

Boston to Seattle: $247 non-stop, $234 one-stop

San Francisco to Raleigh/Durham: $553 non-stop, $362 one-stop

The savings on Boston-Seattle might not be worth it to you, but I'll bet you'll
think twice about the direct flight to Raleigh.

5 Compare, compare, compare

Stifle the impulse to go to your favorite airline site to purchase tickets
without comparison shopping. Example: Let's say you want to fly from New York to
London and figure your favorite U.S. legacy carrier will get you there for the
best price.

Airline price: $554 round-trip

Comparison price: $486

Obviously, the legacy carrier did not have the cheapest flight, but wait: The
comparison site also showed a cheaper flight from the same legacy carrier
($521).

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Adrian Dennis, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Edwards innovated at BYU;
Coach pioneered short passing game

BYLINE: Eddie Timanus, @eddietimanus, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 261 words


Modern football fans might find it hard to believe, but there was a time when
the forward pass was little more than an afterthought in the sport. LaVell
Edwards was among the innovators who helped bring it to the forefront.

Edwards, who died Thursday at 86, is practically synonymous with Brigham Young
football. He put the Cougars program on the map, winning 257 games over his
29-year career in Provo, Utah. He did it primarily with the controlled passing
offense he devised to counter the much bigger and more physical teams BYU would
face at the highest collegiate level.

The concept of using the short pass as a sort-of substitute for a power rushing
game has become common. But when Edwards took over at BYU in the early 1970s, it
was a fairly new idea to base an offense around quick outs and slip screens.
Such play designs are now seen at all levels, and Edwards deserves much of the
credit for developing them.

The success of the scheme helped grow the reputation of BYU as well as the
Western Athletic Conference for exciting, high-scoring football. The Cougars
went 13-0 and were voted national champions in 1984 after a riveting Holiday
Bowl victory against Michigan.

Ty Detmer brought home the program's first Heisman Trophy in 1990, and two of
Edwards' other students, Jim McMahon and Steve Young, went on to quarterback
Super Bowl champion teams. Gifford Nielsen and Marc Wilson also were high-round
draft picks.

His former assistants who've enjoyed considerable NFL coaching success include
Andy Reid and Super Bowl winners Mike Holmgren and Brian Billick.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo 1999 photo by Paul Warner, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

'SURREAL';
2016: As the ride comes to a stop, some of us are feeling woozy

BYLINE: Sean Rossman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1044 words


Good riddance, 2016.  It was tragic.  It was bizarre.  And it was surreal, which
happened to be the word of the year. Merriam-Webster said the word's definition
was searched  more frequently by users in 2016 than in other years. The word,
which means "Marked by the intense irrational reality of a dream," spiked most
during President-elect Trump's victory but also after an attempted coup in
Turkey and terrorist attacks in Belgium and France. Terror also touched home in
Orlando.  How surreal was 2016? Read on.

Everyone died

Well, not everyone, but it seemed that way.

Celebrity deaths came swiftly with 2016's arrival, starting with David Bowie in
January and followed by pretty much everyone we loved from film, music and even
the halls of power.

The most heartbreaking came at the end: Actress Carrie Fisher died, then a day
later, her bereft mother, actress and singer Debbie Reynolds, died after she was
rushed to a hospital.

Hollywood and music took the biggest hits, losing Prince, Gene Wilder, Florence
Henderson, Garry Shandling and Leonard Cohen, among others.

Sports icons weren't spared. Boxing great Muhammad Ali, Pat Summitt and Arnold
Palmer all died. The year's fallen government leaders included former astronaut
and U.S. senator John Glenn, Fidel Castro, Antonin Scalia, Shimon Peres, Nancy
Reagan and Janet Reno.

Just when we thought we couldn't take any more, December took from us singer
George Michael, actor Alan Thicke, Fisher and Reynolds.

Spicoli inadvertently helped bust drug lord

Actor Sean Penn's foray into journalism, in which he stealthily visited and
interviewed Mexican drug lord El Chapo, led to the fugitive's arrest in January.

Beyond Penn's incidental takedown of a cartel leader, the story proved
interesting for what it involved -- Penn's A-list persona, the underground
Mexican drug trade and the romance of Mexican telenovelas.

Mexican Attorney General Arely Gomez said El Chapo's connection with Penn broke
authorities' search open. El Chapo, whose real name is Joaquin Guzman, sought
out producers and actors for a biopic about him. Penn and soap opera star Kate
del Castillo visited Guzman, who was on the lam after escaping a Mexican jail a
second time.

Penn, in an explosive and controversial article he penned for Rolling Stone,
described the meeting in Mexico, which he conceded was a failure because it
didn't spark a broader conversation about the war on drugs.

Castillo, a noted critic of the Mexican government,  came under investigation
for her contacts with Guzman. The pen pal bond she built with Guzman led to the
interview, and her flirtatious text messages with the drug lord raised eyebrows.
There were questions over whether Guzman helped bankroll her tequila business.

Guzman faces charges in the USA, among them murder, weapons possession,
organized crime and money laundering.

Fake news blared louder than the real stuff

Forget sensationalism, or yellow journalism. 2016 went for the jugular with what
has become known as "fake news."

It means exactly what it sounds like, and it played a big role in our
presidential search and even sparked an initiative by those at Facebook to get
rid of it.

It's everywhere, for gosh sakes. It perpetuated the rumor that a 6-year-old
Sandy Hook shooting victim was a myth and that his mourning father was a paid
actor. More dangerously, a man allegedly shot up a Washington pizza shop because
he believed -- through fake news -- that the restaurant hosted a child sex ring
run by Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton.

President Obama and German Chancellor Angela Merkel addressed the threat of fake
news. As did Clinton, who called it a danger.

sexting inquiry intruded on presidential contest

FBI Director James Comey's decision in late October to reopen an investigation
into Clinton's handling of classified information recast attention on the closed
investigation, throwing the already divisive election into complete disarray.

The source of the review was very 2016: a separate investigation into
allegations former congressman Anthony Weiner was sending sexual messages to a
15-year-old girl.

Investigators found the Clinton emails while searching Weiner's devices, which
were accessible by his wife, Clinton aide Huma Abedin.

Ultimately, Comey's office again decided not to charge Clinton after reviewing
the emails.

People started chasing Pokemon again

Pokemon's resurgence hit like a ton of bricks this year. The Japanese characters
that captured hearts in the late 1990s returned to our smartphones.

The nostalgia almost was too much for some. Pokemon Go, the game in which
players capture Pokemon out in the wild using their cellphones, proved to be
downright dangerous, and some people surrendered their human decency.

Police reported several close calls shortly after the game launched, prompting
agencies to warn people to stay alert while playing the game.

People wouldn't stop playing, even at risk of life.

Two men fell off a cliff, a man slammed his vehicle into a Baltimore police car
and an Arizona couple were charged with child abuse after they were accused of
leaving their 2-year-old son home alone, so they could go play the game.

The fad led to other issues. One woman discovered a body while playing. The
Pentagon urged troops and other Defense Department employees not to play on
their government cellphones and a Michigan couple filed a class action lawsuit
claiming the game had ruined Americans' quality of life. Nothing was sacred.
Players invaded cemeteries and museums to honor Holocaust victims.

All in the name of Pokemon.

soap opera cameo led into locker room

Donald Trump's hot-mic conversation during which he bragged about groping women
incited a wave of backlash a month before Election Day.

The infamous conversation, obtained by The Washington Post, was taped on an
Access Hollywood bus before a segment on Trump's appearance on Days of Our
Lives.

Among Trump's most notorious anecdotes were his comments about a married woman
and his encounters with beautiful women.

"I did try and f--- her," he said of one woman. "I moved on her like a b----,
but I couldn't get there."

He said he immediately kisses beautiful women.

"I don't even wait," he said. "And when you're a star, they let you do it. You
can do anything -- grab them by the p----."

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Craig Rubadoux, FLORIDA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

IN BRIEF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 368 words


After berlin, big cities beef up New Year's Eve security

Major cities across the globe are bolstering security around New Year's Eve
celebrations, with some U.S. law enforcement agencies taking extra precautions
to protect against the sort of deadly truck attacks carried out in Germany and
France this year.

New York City officials announced Thursday they will deploy 65 sanitation and
salt trucks around the perimeter of Times Square, a new security measure aimed
at making it more difficult for an attacker to barrel a vehicle into a crowd.

The city will also dispatch 100 lighter "blocker trucks" in the area for an
added layer of protection.

In London, the Metropolitan Police said Thursday it will deploy armed officers
on London Underground trains for the first time, Sky News reported.

Melbourne police officials said revelers will notice increased security this
year, while law enforcement in Madrid said that for the first time it would
limit the number of people allowed into the Puerta del Sol square, where tens of
thousands gather at midnight to take part in the tradition of eating 12 grapes
to ring in the New Year, El Pais reported.

--Aamer Madhani

Man who died in Swiss Alps was avid climber

The American engineer who fell to his death in the Swiss Alps this week was
trying to retake photos he took years ago while climbing the fabled Matterhorn,
family members said Thursday.

Patrick James Harper, 52, was an avid hiker, skier and climber who was
descending the 14,692-foot mountain when he tumbled to his death, Harper's
sister, Jeanmarie Harper-Henry, told USA TODAY.

Harper, of Butler, Pa., fell almost 500 feet from a steep, icy trail Monday,
police in the Valais region of Switzerland said. Police said in a statement that
Harper was hiking alone when he fell for "unexplained reasons" along a trail
partially covered in snow drifts.--John Bacon

Also ...

A powerful winter storm that could deliver up to 2 feet of snow in New England
and New York state moved into the region Thursday. Numerous winter storm
warnings and  weather advisories were in effect across the region. Hazardous
driving conditions with snow-covered roads and poor visibilities are expected,
the National Weather Service said.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo BAGUS INDAHONO, European PressPhoto Agency

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Three likely to reveal picks at games

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 366 words


Six players ranked as five-star prospects by the 247Sports Composite remain
uncommitted, with several set to announce at the Under Armour All-America Game
on Sunday or the U.S. Army All-American Bowl on Jan. 7. Here is a look at each
player's expected plan and schools that remain involved (rankings from 247Sports
Composite).

2. Foster Sarell, OT, Graham-Kapowsin (Graham, Wash.). Expected to announce his
decision at the U.S. Army All-American Bowl. Finalists are Nebraska, Notre Dame,
Stanford, Southern California and Washington. He has taken official visits to
all except Stanford. He has visited Palo Alto, Calif., numerous times
unofficially. Stanford has landed another top-20 tackle in Walker Little from
Bellaire (Episcopal, Texas).

3. Marvin Wilson, DT, Episcopal (Bellaire, Texas). Revealed his top five of
Florida State, Oklahoma, LSU, Ohio State and South Florida when he arrived at
the Under Armour All-America Game. He plans to announce on signing day. He has
taken official visits to Oklahoma, Florida State and Ohio State and has a visit
to LSU planned for Jan.13. He said he has not decided where -- or if -- he will
use his fifth visit.

7. Jeffrey Okudah, CB, South Grand Prairie (Grand Prairie, Texas). Expected to
announce at the Army Bowl and is said to be down to Ohio State, Oklahoma and
Florida. Ohio State has long been considered the favorite.

12. Darnay Holmes, CB, Calabasas, (Calif.). Expected to announce at the Army
Bowl and is choosing from Nebraska, Ohio State, Southern California and UCLA.
The Bruins are the favorite, but he visited Ohio State for the Michigan game and
got an in-home visit from Ohio State coaches before the dead period began in
mid-December.

16. Joseph Lewis, WR, Hawkins (Los Angeles). Has not set a commitment date,
saying in his most recent USA TODAY Sports blog that he might announce at the
Army Bowl. He also could wait until signing day. Had in-home visits with
Southern California, Nebraska and Arizona State among others.

31. Aubrey Solomon, DE, Lee County (Leesburg, Ga.). Expected to commit on
signing day and has official visits scheduled for January to Southern
California, Auburn and Florida.

Compiled by USA TODAY High School Sports

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Intersport

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Walker's killer workouts pay off;
Florida State end strives to be best

BYLINE: Corey Clark, @Corey_Clark, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 682 words


DeMarcus Walker looked at me like I had lost my mind.

The Florida State defensive end was describing his offseason conditioning this
week when he casually mentioned "throw-up Mondays."

He talked about how he would push his body so far past its limit, in the brutal
heat of a Florida summer, that he inevitably would vomit during the workout.

Walker knew it was going to happen. When he showed up on those Mondays, he knew
that by the end of the session his stomach contents would be all over that field
in Jacksonville. He did it anyway.

Which led to the question that led Walker to do almost a double-take.

Why?

Usually we're doing anything and everything not to throw up, but Walker was out
there making sure he did.

"Because I wanted to be the best," he said. "I knew it was going to take time
and I knew it was going to take a lot of hard work.

"I just love perfecting my craft. I love getting better. I hate pain, but I love
pleasure. So the sacrifices I have to make to prevail, I don't mind doing it."

That was clear every Monday.

It's a mind-set most people  aren't born with. We can't relate.

Wanting something so bad, having so much conviction, that you put up with that
kind of pain? Voluntarily? Remember, these weren't Florida State workouts.
Walker was doing them on his own.

"My trainer planned those Mondays where we would push the sled 5 yards, got to
run back 5," Walker said. "Push the sled 10yards, got to run back 10. Push the
sled 15, got to run back 15. Then push the sled 30.

"Sled gassers were the worst. I wanted to fight him those days."

He would vomit instead.

Participating in something called "throw-up Mondays" isn't normal. And that's
probably what stands out most about Walker. He isn't normal.

By the end of someone's sophomore year, we usually have a pretty strong idea of
what kind of career he'll have. We've seen enough by then to know if there's
anything to be excited about, if there's an NFL future.

With Walker, we had no idea.

He had two sacks total in his first two years. It looked like he was going to
have an average college football career. Nothing to really remember.

But Walker wasn't about to go out like that.

As a junior, he burst onto the scene with 101/2 sacks and 151/2 tackles for
losses. By the end of the season, he was the best player on the defense.

And that wasn't nearly good enough for Walker. He wanted to be the best player
in the country.

So he got bigger, faster and stronger. He took yoga classes in the offseason to
improve his flexibility. He endured "throw-up Mondays." He was laser-focused on
becoming the top defensive end in the country.

Now,  Walker is a consensus All-American. Heading into Friday's Orange Bowl
against Michigan, he is second in the nation with 15 sacks. He has 171/2 tackles
for losses.

He also has been the team's unquestioned leader.

And that's really what Walker's legacy will be after he plays his final game in
garnet and gold Friday.

Yes, he was a dominant, game-changing defensive end. But that doesn't tell the
whole story.

Think about what all of the younger players on the Florida State roster have
learned just by watching Walker.

Here's a guy  who hadn't accomplished much of anything individually after two
years. Now he's leaving as one of the all-time greats in Florida State history.

Think about what his story says about work ethic, about drive, about
self-belief.

After the 2014 season, the only person who truly believed in Walker was Walker.
The rest of the country hadn't even heard of him.

Cut to Thursday's Orange Bowl news conference when Michigan coach Jim Harbaugh
was asked about Walker.

"I think he's their best player," Harbaugh said. "One of the best players we've
seen. He's a real outstanding player."

Walker's  teammates have heard about hard work and dedication all their lives.
But those words are practically abstract. For players blessed with great
athletic ability, it can be hard to quantify what hard work really is.

You know what isn't hard to quantify?

Throw-up Mondays.

But that's what makes Walker who he is.

Clark writes for the Tallahassee (Fla.) Democrat, part of the USA TODAY Network.


LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Melina Vastola, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

FIRST WORD

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 233 words


"Coach Edwards was a gentle giant of the gridiron -- a humble yet confident
leader who guided the BYU football program through decades of unprecedented
success. ... He was not only one of the most successful coaches in college
football history but one of the greatest men I knew."

From a statement by  Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, on former BYU football coach
LaVell Edwards, who died Thursday at 86. Edwards, whose Cougars won the 1984
national title, retired after the 2000 season with a 257-101-3 record.

names to know

WARDE MANUEL, STAN WILCOX, JUDGE MICHAEL B. CHAVIES

magic number

1-4

SEC's record in bowl games after West Virginia defeated Arkansas 35-24 in the
Belk Bowl.

almost last word

"I WISH I HAD HIS BODY. SO DOES MY WIFE."

Broncos defensive coordinator Wade Phillips on 34-year-old  outside linebacker
DeMarcus Ware, who will have surgery to repair a bulging disk in his back,
meaning Ware might have played his final snap for the Broncos. The three-year
contract Ware signed in 2014 expires after this season.

last word

"YOU CAN TELL HIS SON IS A COACH'S KID. HE HAS A HIGH IQ. BUT (SEAN) IS
HANDS-OFF, WHICH IS AWESOME."

Brian Holstrom, basketball coach at Salpointe Catholic High in Tucson, about
University of Arizona coach Sean Miller and his son, Cameron, a 6-1 senior
guard. Holstrom calls  Miller the model parent. He lets Holstrom coach and
doesn't try to interfere.

Edited by Thomas O'Toole

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo 2007 Edwards photo by AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SPORTSLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Facebook's latest vision is pop-up stores for virtual reality;
Consumers can get taste of hot trend in some airports, malls

BYLINE: Jessica Guynn, Trevor Hughes and Brett Molina, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 513 words


No, your eyes are not deceiving you. The Facebook store is real.

Consumers and travelers may have bumped into these pop-up Facebook "stores" over
the holidays at airports and malls. What the stores are trying to sell is one of
the tech sector's hottest trends -- virtual reality.

The stores are part of a virtual reality tour to introduce the tough-to-explain
technology to the masses. They're available in several big cities across the
country, including Denver, New York, Phoenix and San Diego, through the end of
January.

Customers visiting the stores can try out Gear VR, a virtual-reality headset
created by Facebook-owned Oculus in partnership with Samsung. The device works
with models of Samsung's Galaxy smartphones.

"Virtual reality is truly immersive and provides an incredible sense of
presence, which can be hard for people to imagine without a demo," Facebook said
in a statement. "We wanted to give people the opportunity to try Gear VR
firsthand and experience the power of virtual reality."

At the Denver International Airport display, a steady stream of travelers
stopped in to test out the eight stations. Each guest gets a Facebook-assigned
handler to walk them through the brief setup and then to make sure they don't
accidentally stumble or fall while undergoing the immersive experience.

Visitors watched a two-minute VR experience whisking them around the world and
out beyond the stars, in a mix of real and computer-generated footage that
includes basketball players, a short boat ride and getting plunked amid a
circus.

"Whoa," said John Jarvie, 30, as he watched a giant dinosaur nose toward him
during a Jurassic Park-themed section. Afterward, Jarvie said he'd never tried
VR before and was impressed: "Pretty rad, man."

Robin Kahler, 52, said she told all her friends and family to try out VR after
experiencing the Facebook display at the Denver airport. "I wanted to be able to
touch the dinosaur," she said. "It's like you're suddenly there. I would totally
throw down $5 for a safari."

Airport workers said the video experience Facebook first showed was actually too
realistic, and a handful of viewers walked away dizzy, so a gentler video
replaced it. Guests face multiple warning signs about the risks of motion
sickness, each kiosk has a safety grab rail, and workers to monitor users.

The stores address a key issue with virtual reality: how to promote its
potential to people who have never tried it.

"It's all about the first step," said Stephanie Llamas, director of research and
insights at SuperData Research. "Once they take it, you open them to a world of
possibilities they couldn't have imagined. It's a Matrix moment."

Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has been one of several big supporters of VR,
hailing it as the next great computing platform. In 2014, Facebook acquired
Oculus, the company sparking recent buzz surrounding VR with its Rift headset,
for $2 billion.

"Pretty soon we're going to live in a world where everyone has the power to
share and experience whole scenes as if you're just there, right there in
person," Zuckerberg said.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Oculus

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

2017 may bring new ways to shop, drive, surf;
10th anniversary of the iPhone could also be huge

BYLINE: Jefferson Graham

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 703 words


Buying groceries could possibly take on a whole new twist in 2017.

You'll see the 10th anniversary of the iPhone, possibly with augmented reality
and other cool new additions. And there just might be a self-driving car in your
neighborhood.

Looking ahead to the year in tech for 2017 sees several ground-breaking  twists
in the mobile revolution, none potentially bigger than changing the way we shop.

Amazon says it will open a new kind of grocery store in the Seattle area to the
public in early 2017 that will ditch the cash register and those long lines.

Instead, you'll just open up a smartphone app, scan your product, and Amazon
will deduct the item from your account. Should the concept work, shorten the
lines and dramatically increase sales, you could expect other retailers to join
in.

"I see Amazon licensing the technology to others," says James McQuivey, an
analyst at Forrester Research. "This is a model to bring the software to others
and make the store experience better, not just open a string of Amazon stores."

New iPhone

Steve Jobs first teased the iPhone in January 2007 and then launched it  in
June. The world hasn't been the same since. More than 1 billion iPhones have
sold to date, and apps run our lives -- where would we be without Waze and Uber?

The next iPhone, expected in September, could be a redesigned state-of-the-art
wonder, with brighter display, faster processor, wireless charging and perhaps
augmented reality technology,  says Tim Bajarin, an analyst with Creative
Strategies.

"If Apple gets it right, it could kick AR to the masses," he says.

Connected Cars

No, 2017 isn't the year self-driving cars go mainstream. But with Uber engaging
in self-driving tests in Pittsburgh and Arizona, and with the Consumer
Electronics Show (CES) and various auto shows scheduled for early next year
highlighting the latest and greatest in tech, we're clearly going to be hearing
and seeing a lot about the new connected and really smart car in 2017.

More voice products

This past year saw Amazon's Echo and smaller Dot connected speaker emerge as
tech best-sellers.

Echo is a 2015 product that took off in 2016 -- by the end of the year, the
e-tailer was sold out for the holidays.

With Microsoft's Cortana, Apple's Siri and Google's Echo-like Home product,
Amazon has lots of competition and will see more in 2017, says McQuivey.

"You'll see a lot more from a lot of companies: Why wouldn't a hotel chain like
Marriott have its own? By 2019, they'll be really, really common," he says. Next
year, Cortana will join forces with Harman Kardon to bring smarts to audio
speakers while Alexa is coming to Sonos audio speakers.

Video

Facebook pushed the Live experience big time in 2016. But beyond the
celebrities, broadcasters and media brands showing big interviews or events,
when's the last time you actually watched your neighbor's BBQ?

The answer is probably never, which could provoke Facebook to just focus on the
big-time names in 2017 and ditch us amateurs, suggests Jan Dawson, who is
principal analyst at Jackdaw Research.

"The consumer level has not been a success at all," Dawson says.

"Either people will finally latch onto it or get so annoyed at the push for live
that Facebook will have to get more focused."

You'll see more virtual reality products that attempt to woo consumers by taking
them into a new world, with hopefully more consumer-friendly features and more
companies looking to video glasses that marry the augmented reality of apps like
Pokémon Go to real life.

Snapchat's Spectacles, the $129 video glasses, were snapped up by consumers, who
stood on long lines to buy them from a wild-looking vending machine.

Investors will look to Snapchat's spring $25 billion IPO and possibly Uber as
well to try and make some money from tech, while those of us who enjoy living in
the real world will look to Facebook to tame its issues with fake news, which it
has said it wants to do.

Meanwhile, the new year starts next week, when tech enthusiasts descend upon Las
Vegas for the 50th edition of CES.

Follow USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham on Twitter, @jeffersongraham, and subscribe
to the daily #TalkingTech podcast on iTunes and Stitcher, where you can leave
comments, reviews and suggestions.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Robert Deutsch, USA Today

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

6 Political surprises;
The easiest job in American journalism? Even in a year that defied all kinds of
easy expectations, that would be identifying the biggest political surprise of
2016 -- plus some runners-up.

BYLINE: Susan Page

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 834 words


1 President Trump

There was wide skepticism he would run, few predictions he could claim the
Republican presidential nomination and disbelief among most of the pros he could
win the White House on Election Day. But Donald Trump, real estate mogul and
reality TV star, is poised to be inaugurated as the nation's 45th president next
month.

By multiple measures, he's a historic figure as commander in chief: the first
president to have neither governmental nor military command experience.

He's the candidate with the highest negative ratings of any winning contender in
the history of polling and the oldest person elected to a first term in the
White House -- and, based on the financial disclosure forms filed when he
started his bid, the richest.

2 Dynasties defeated

Trump's path to the nomination plowed through the two leading families in
American politics.

First, in the Republican primaries, Trump vanquished the GOP's most successful
dynasty, the Bushes, the family that fielded two of America's four most recent
presidents. Though former Florida governor Jeb Bush started his bid with the
most money in the bank and establishment endorsements in his pocket, he failed
to fuel the fervent support that Trump commanded. "Low-energy," Trump
devastatingly dubbed him.

In the general election, Trump defeated the most powerful family in Democratic
politics.

Though the Clintons are nothing if not resilient, the family's era may be over:
Sixty-two percent  of Democrats and independents in a USA TODAY/Suffolk
University Poll released last week said Hillary Clinton shouldn't make another
run for the job in four years.

3 The Obama disconnect

After two terms, Barack Obama is moving out of the White House with a healthy
job approval rating, 54% in the latest USA TODAY survey.

He took over eight years ago at a time of financial calamity and leaves office
with a recovering economy and an unemployment rate that has been slashed in
half.

Even so, he will turn over his office to his political nemesis.

Six in 10 Americans in last week's USA TODAY poll predicted Trump will
significantly dismantle Obama's legacy.

Since World War II, an outgoing president's approval rating has been a key
indicator of whether his party's voters will turn out for the candidate to
succeed him, an analysis by Emory University political scientist Alan Abramowitz
found, and no modern president campaigned as vigorously for his  successor as
Obama did. Clinton still lost.

That disconnect and its potential consequences for his place in history seem to
rankle Obama, who said in an interview released Monday that he and his message
could have prevailed -- that is, if the 22nd Amendment hadn't barred him from a
third term.

Trump disagreed. "NO WAY!" he replied in a tweet.

4 Feel the Bern

A 74-year-old self-declared socialist from Vermont who has never been a
registered Democrat came close to winning the party's presidential nomination.

Meet Bernie Sanders.

Sanders' success in the Democratic primaries demonstrated the power of the
Millennial generation (at least when young voters are enthused about a
candidate), the fundraising potential of small online contributions over
traditional big-dollar donors and the resurgence of the party's more liberal
wing.

After four decades of Democrats being told they had to move to the center to
win, Sanders was defiantly liberal, tugging Clinton to the left on trade and
college aid.

The debate over the Democrats' direction hasn't ended, especially as the party's
leaders calculate how to counter the new Republican president.  Sanders has left
open the possibility of running for president again. So has Massachusetts Sen.
Elizabeth Warren.

5 Moscow meddling

U.S. intelligence agencies concluded with "high confidence" that hackers with
ties to the Kremlin broke into the computer networks for the Democratic National
Committee, Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta and others and orchestrated
leaks designed to hurt Clinton's chances of being elected.

Obama has ordered an investigation that is supposed to be concluded before Trump
takes office and takes charge, among other things, of U.S.-Russian relations.

6 Money? Meh.

What the 2016 campaign demonstrated wasn't that money didn't matter. It's that
other factors mattered more.

Trump won the GOP nomination over better-financed rivals, including Jeb Bush.
Then he won the general election against an opponent who raised and spent more
in about every major category.

Clinton's campaign organization swamped Trump's in fundraising, $623.1 million
to $329.4million, according to Federal Election Commission reports filed by the
end of last month. The disparity among supportive super PACs was even wider:
$204.3 million behind Clinton to $79 million backing Trump.  In party and joint
fundraising committees, Clinton and Democratic groups raised more, $595.4
million to Republicans' $524 million.

In all, Trump's campaign and its  affiliates spent $932.3million; Clinton,
$1.4billion.

In 2016, you might say message and the moment trumped money.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Natalia Kolesnikova, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Latest class of Obama pardons feels vindicated;
As president's term comes to an end, he issues some rare gifts

BYLINE: Gregory Korte, @gregorykorte, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 712 words


They were convicted of drug dealing, eavesdropping, bid-rigging, embezzlement,
auto theft, bank fraud, gambling, destroying mail, firearms offenses,
counterfeiting, shoplifting -- and the illegal importation of tortoises.

They're members of the largest class of presidential pardons granted by
President Obama.

As Obama has put more resources into using his clemency power to shorten
mandatory minimum sentences for drug crimes, he's granted fewer pardons than any
two-term president since George Washington.

Nearly 2,000 pardon cases remain pending, many since the early days of the Obama
administration. As President-elect Trump brings an uncertain pardon policy to
the White House, the eleventh-hour grants of presidential mercy are especially
sweet to the 78 people who received them just before Christmas.

Unlike a commutation, which shortens a prison sentence but leaves other
consequences intact, a full pardon represents a legal forgiveness for the crime
and restores all civil rights. Many of those who received pardons said the
public vindication means more to them than any of the rights they regained.

Serena Nunn got the news of her pardon from her lawyer, Sam Sheldon, who asked
her, "What do you want more than anything else in the world right now?"

"The symbolism that comes with a pardon, I'm just so blessed," she said.

Nunn was 19 when she was caught dealing drugs with her boyfriend. "I've never
tried to come across as some super-innocent person," she said. "You just don't
think about consequences or that certain things will happen to you."

She received a 15-year sentence in 1990 and served more than 10 of them before
President  Clinton commuted her sentence in 2000. She finished college and --
with the help of unprecedented character references from Clinton and the judge
who sentenced her -- was admitted to the University of Michigan law school.
She's a public defender in Atlanta.

Obama granted her a full pardon.

Such a double dose of clemency is rare but not unprecedented. P.S. Ruckman Jr.,
a political scientist who has tracked clemency from President  Washington to
Obama, estimates there have been more than 100 such cases in history, including
publishing heir Patty Hearst, who was convicted of bank robbery in 1976,
released from prison by President  Carter in 1979 and pardoned by Clinton on his
last day in office in 2001.

"What I will say is, both of them are extremely important, and everybody who's
been affected by President Obama's decision to grant as many as he's done are
extremely grateful," Nunn said.

In 1970, Sala Udin was convicted of transporting a firearm -- and some untaxed
homemade alcohol -- across state lines into Kentucky. For that, he received a
five-year sentence.

To understand why Obama granted him a pardon, it helps to know what Udin was
doing in Kentucky in the first place:

Udin, whose given name was Samuel Wesley Howze, was returning north with a car
full of civil rights activists who had helped African Americans register to vote
in Mississippi.

"I could not prove it, but there was no doubt in my mind at the time that we
were followed out of Mississippi. They knew who they were tailing. And it had to
do with our civil rights activities. That was undisputed in my mind," Udin said.

As for the contraband, Udin said, "We would rather have the police catch us with
a gun than have the Klan catch us on a dark, lonely road without it."

A bit more mischievously, he added, "Also, nobody in Mississippi passes up the
opportunity for Mississippi moonshine."

Udin returned to Pittsburgh, where he became a community organizer and served
three terms on Pittsburgh's City Council.

"Whenever I ran for office -- I ran for office three times, and every time I ran
for office, the opponent running against me tried to get me kicked off the
ballot, based on the fact that I was a convicted felon," he said. "Now, they'd
have to say I'm a pardoned convicted felon. That is such an important personal
vindication for me.

"The conviction was a blemish on that history. The pardon wipes the slate
clean," he said.

---

Commutation vs. presidential pardon

Unlike a commutation, which shortens a prison sentence but leaves other
consequences intact, a full pardon represents a legal forgiveness for the crime
and restores all civil rights.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo NICHOLAS KAMM, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Tops for 2017: A year of great destinations;
Whether it's for business or pleasure, travelers seek culture, adventure

BYLINE: Nancy Trejos, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 824 words


The new year is shaping up to be a year of uncertainty, with a new
administration  in the USA and violence in popular destinations abroad.

But people still seem eager to travel for business or leisure, industry experts
say. The U.S. Tour Operators Association, which helps millions of travelers
arrange trips and packages, projects that sales will reach $15 billion by the
end of the year.

"That projection is a nearly 4% increase in total packages sold in 2016 over
2015, showing remarkable resilience in a challenging year for travel," says
Terry Dale, president and CEO of the association.  The challenges have been big:
Terrorist attacks, political instability and health crises such as the spread of
the Zika virus. Still, 82% of tour operators surveyed by PriceWaterhouseCoopers
LLP expect a growth in sales in 2017.

"Many people are still open, adventurous and curious about the world around them
and are eager to get off the grid and explore," says Travis Katz, co-founder and
CEO of travel research tool Trip.com.

So where do the experts expect travelers to go?

Despite being  more than a day-long trip for most U.S. residents, Australia
appears on many lists of hot destinations. Adelaide, the capital of South
Australia, topped Trip.com's list of 2017's Rising Stars. Trip.com considers
Rising Stars to be destinations with up-and-coming culinary scenes, active
nightlife, uncrowded beaches, creative festivals and historic architecture.

Katz says Adelaide offers a balance of culture and adventure. It has a pristine
nature reserve, three national parks, historic churches and the Barossa Valley
wine region. Sydney topped Booking.com's list of best international destinations
for its beaches and attractions.

Cuba continues to be a hot spot, ever since President  Obama started easing
relations with the island nation two years ago. Now, U.S. commercial airlines
are allowed to fly there, and cruises can make stops. U.S.-based hotels can also
take over or build hotels there, with Starwood Hotels and Resorts being the
first to sign deals.

What's unclear is whether President-elect Donald Trump will roll back some of
those efforts once he takes office, as he indicated he would during his
campaign.

"Concerns that travel to Cuba could again become more restricted or commercial
flights could end with the advent of a new administration are continuing to feed
travelers' sense of urgency to visit," Katz says.

Despite the uncertainty, Cuba appears high on many top 2017 destination lists.
And while Havana has always been a coveted destination, Trip.com has found that
many travelers are exploring cities beyond the capital, such as the colonial
town of Trinidad and  iguana-filled island Cayo Iguana.

Canada has had a strong showing of late. Lonely Planet named the country the
best destination for 2017, citing its friendly residents and great tourism
infrastructure. A weak Canadian dollar also makes it affordable. Another plus:
It will be a festive year in Canada as the country  commemorates the 150th
anniversary of its Confederation.

Booking.com named Banff, a resort town within Banff National Park in the Rocky
Mountains, the third-best international destination, based on an analysis of
patterns of growth in searches. It followed Sydney and Seoul.

TripAdvisor placed Whistler, a ski destination in British Columbia, in the No. 2
spot on its list of rising international destinations for 2017. Its No. 1 rising
international destination is laid-back San Jose Cabo in Mexico. TripAdvisor
measured the year-over-year increase in positive traveler review ratings, as
well as a rise in booking interest.

Colombia is generating more buzz. A peace deal just ended a 52-year-long civil
war, and its president recently won the Nobel Peace Prize. Lonely Planet named
it the second-best destination of 2017. And Medellin, the capital of Colombia's
mountainous Antioquia province, landed in the No. 2 spot on Trip.com's list of
Rising Stars.

Other more obscure destinations also gained recognition from some experts.

Tbilisi, Georgia, made TripAdvisor's Top 10 list of global destinations on the
rise, as well as Trip.com's Rising Star List, for its sulfur baths, great
restaurants and Georgian wine. Trip.com likens it to Prague 20 years ago.

Domestically, large cities such as New York and Los Angeles did not shine as
much as places such as Houston, Columbus and Portland, Maine.

Booking.com named Chattanooga, Milwaukee, Mammoth Lakes in California, St.
Augustine Beach in Florida, and Dallas  its top five best domestic destinations.

TripAdvisor named the beach city of Kihei on Maui's southwest shore in Hawaii
its top rising spot in the USA. Rounding out the top five are Park City, Utah;
Portland, Maine; Louisville; and Colorado Springs.

South Padre Island was the only U.S. destination that Trip.com named a rising
star. Once known for spring bBreak, the island is now attracting more families
to explore its beach and Dolphin Research Center.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Trip.com

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Packers primed for playoffs;
Green Bay's late rebound mirrors 2010 team's feat

BYLINE: Pete Dougherty, @PeteDougherty, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 7C

LENGTH: 794 words


I have to admit to a feeling of déjà vu while watching Aaron Rodgers shred the
Minnesota Vikings last week.

It conjured up memories of another late-season Saturday game, the divisional
round of the playoffs on Jan. 15, 2011. On that night in the Georgia Dome,
Rodgers and the Green Bay Packers annihilated the Atlanta Falcons 48-21.

In both games, Rodgers seemed to move the ball up and down the field at will. He
made plays with his arm, his feet and both. The Packers, fast ascending late in
the year, seemed unstoppable.

Of course, after that game in Atlanta the Packers went on to win the Super Bowl.
But it was in the Georgia Dome that they signaled just how good they were at the
right time.

So does Saturday against Minnesota suggest the same? Are the Packers on another
Super Bowl track?

Well, déjà vu or not, lose at Detroit on Sunday, and the Packers very well might
not even make the playoffs. But there really are some telling similarities
between coach Mike McCarthy's team this season and the one that won the title
six years ago. There's one crucial difference, too.

The similarities aren't just superficial. Like in 2010, this year's Packers had
a bad run of injuries and are in danger of missing the playoffs going into the
season's last game. Just like 2010, this team has peaked at the end of the year
after the offense finally found a viable running back. And as in 2010, Rodgers
is closing the season as maybe the best player in football.

But the single biggest difference from 2010 is just as real. Those Super Bowl
champion Packers were a good defensive team. This year's Packers? Nope. We'll
get to that later.

As for the déjà vu, you can start with injuries.

The 2010 Packers finished the season with 15 players on injured reserve. That
included maybe their most talented pass catcher (Jermichael Finley), their best
running back (Ryan Grant) and their starting right tackle (Mark Tauscher).

This year's Packers have only five players on IR, but that number doesn't tell
their injury story. It's more about quality. Two of those out for the season,
running back Eddie Lacy and cornerback Sam Shields, were among their most
important players.

Then there were the less-severe injuries to key players and positions. For a
long stretch of the season the Packers' best defensive player, Clay Matthews,
was either sidelined or diminished by hamstring and shoulder injuries. And for
much of October and November, they didn't have their top three cornerbacks,
because along with Shields, their first two picks from last year's draft,
Damarious Randall and Quinten Rollins, were out with groin injuries.

McCarthy also found badly needed help at running back late in both years. In
'10, it was James Starks, who returned from a season-long hamstring injury to
provide the viable run threat in the playoffs that the Packers had lacked all
year.

This season, it was McCarthy moving Ty Montgomery from receiver to the
backfield. Who knew that along with creating matchup headaches in the passing
game, Montgomery was a real running back, too? As he has blossomed, Rodgers has,
too.

But even with those similarities, there's also a big difference between 2010 and
now, on the other side of the ball.

In 2010, the Packers defense could win a game. It had difference-makers in
Matthews, Charles Woodson and Nick Collins.

The numbers back up how solid coordinator Dom Capers' defense was. It led the
NFL in defensive passer rating (67.2) and ranked in the top five in points
(second) and yards (fifth) as well.

This year's Packers don't have the difference-makers.

Mike Daniels has been their one playmaker week in and week out.  And we'll see
whether 36-year-old Julius Peppers has enough in the tank to change a game with
the season on the line. The Packers rested him early in hopes it would pay off
now.

The Packers' defensive passer rating (95.9), which Capers considers the single
most important defensive stat, is No. 26 in the league. They are tied for No. 22
in scoring defense and are No. 20 in yards allowed.

Those numbers don't lie, either. There's plenty of reason to question whether
these Packers can get a stop against a good team when they need one.

So does that preclude the Packers from going on a run like they did in 2010?
Again, no.

Not that they're the NFC favorite -- that has to be Dallas, which has more
offensive talent than any team in the league.

But Rodgers is playing at his MVP best. And with the dual threat Montgomery
brings, this offense might be even more dangerous than the one that won the
Super Bowl six years ago.

The Packers' season could end in a flash in Detroit on Sunday. Hot teams still
can lose. But there are ingredients for the Packers to go on a run.

Dougherty writes for the Green Bay Press-Gazette, part of the USA TODAY Network.


LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Wm. Glasheen, USA TODAY NETWORK

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Obama sanctions Russian officials;
Acting on election hacking suspicions, U.S. tosses out diplomats, closes foreign
facilities

BYLINE: David Jackson, @djusatoday, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 687 words


Responding to evidence that Russia hacked Democratic Party officials during this
year's presidential election, the Obama administration on Thursday sanctioned
Russian intelligence officials, expelled 35 Russian diplomats suspected of being
spies and shut down two Russian facilities in the USA.

"These actions follow repeated private and public warnings that we have issued
to the Russian government and are a necessary and appropriate response to
efforts to harm U.S. interests in violation of established international norms
of behavior," President Obama said in a statement, describing attempts to
interfere in the election as a threat to the democratic process.

Obama suggested that the Russians sought to affect previous elections  and that
the United States would engage in covert retaliation activity. The
administration will soon "be providing a report to Congress in the coming days
about Russia's efforts to interfere in our election, as well as malicious
cyberactivity related to our election cycle in previous elections," he said.

President-elect Donald Trump  continued to downplay the allegations. "It's time
for our country to move on to bigger and better things. Nevertheless, in the
interest of our country and its great people, I will meet with leaders of the
intelligence community next week in order to be updated on the facts of this
situation," he said in a statement issued Thursday evening.

Trump and his aides have said Democrats are pushing the Russian hack story as
part of an effort to explain the loss by Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton.

The FBI, the Department of Homeland Security and the Director of National
Intelligence issued a joint statement accusing Russia of a decade-long
cybercampaign targeting American government, infrastructure and citizens in
general.

Obama signed an executive order outlining economic penalties for individuals and
organizations involved in "tampering with, altering or causing a
misappropriation of information with the purpose or effect of interfering with
or undermining election processes or institutions."

The sanctions affect "nine entities and individuals," Obama said: "The GRU and
the FSB, two Russian intelligence services; four individual officers of the GRU;
and three companies that provided material support to the GRU's cyber
operations."

They did not include Russian President Vladimir Putin, though Obama suggested he
knew about the Russian hacking activity because "these data theft and disclosure
activities could only have been directed by the highest levels of the Russian
government."

Putin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said the Russian president will develop a response
to the U.S. sanctions, and "there is no doubt that this adequate and mirror
response will make the U.S. side feel very uncomfortable as well."

Peskov said Obama pushed forward with sanctions "to further harm
Russian-American ties, which are at a low point as it is, as well as obviously
deal a blow on the foreign policy plans of the incoming administration of the
president-elect."

The Obama administration expelled 35 Russian intelligence operatives from the
USA and shut down two Russian compounds, in Maryland and New York, which Obama
said were "used by Russian personnel for intelligence-related purposes."

Russia is likely to respond in kind by kicking out U.S. officials from its
country; the United States has claimed that its diplomats in Russia have been
harassed for years.

The Russian Embassy in the United Kingdom taunted the White House on Twitter,
calling the penalties "lame" and saying, "Everybody ... will be glad to see the
last of this hapless Adm."

U.S. intelligence agencies accused the Russians of getting involved in the
election to help Trump win the presidency, accusations Putin and other Russian
officials denied. The U.S. agencies are conducting a formal investigation, and
Congress is likely to conduct a probe of its own.

"These actions are not the sum total of our response to Russia's aggressive
activities," Obama said Thursday. "We will continue to take a variety of actions
at a time and place of our choosing, some of which will not be publicized."

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Truck braking system likely averted some Berlin deaths;
Under 2012 EU law, cameras aboard rigs can trigger stops

BYLINE: Kim Hjelmgaard, @khjelmgaard, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 432 words


An automatic braking system required by law may have prevented more deaths in
last week's truck rampage through a Christmas market, according to an
investigation by German media.

The 40-ton truck used in the attack Dec. 19 stopped about 250 feet after it was
intentionally rammed into the market, suggesting its mandatory, anti-collision
system  had been deployed, said a joint report by the newspaper Süddeutsche
Zeitung and broadcasters NDR and WDR. The attack left 12 people dead and injured
48.

Investigators have not commented on the finding, which raises the possibility
the truck's braking system saved lives.

A European Union law adopted in 2012 requires all new trucks over a certain size
to be fitted with an automatic braking system to reduce the number of rear-end
collisions. The system, which uses cameras to detect hazards, alerts the driver
to potential dangers. If no action is taken, the brakes are engaged. The system
can be manually overridden.

The Scania R450 truck crashed into several wooden cabins and tore down a
Christmas tree before coming to a halt. The emergency braking system regulation
applies to trucks with axles weighing more than 3.5 tons, according to the EU
legislation.

In July, more than 80 people were killed when a terrorist rammed a 19-ton truck
into Bastille Day crowds in Nice, France. The truck came to a halt after the
driver was killed by police.

It is not clear whether that vehicle was fitted with a similar braking system.

In the Berlin attack, German investigators ruled out a  hypothesis that the
original Polish driver of the truck may have heroically acted to prevent
additional loss of life.

Investigators speculated that Lukasz Urban could have been involved in a
struggle with Anis Amri, the suspected hijacker, as the vehicle slammed into the
market. Urban was found dead in the truck with bullet and stab wounds.
Subsequent forensic examinations revealed Urban was shot in the head several
hours before the attack.

Amri, 24, a Tunisian national, was shot and killed by police in Milan on Friday.
He fled to Italy after the attack. The Islamic State, which claimed
responsibility for the attack, released a video -- determined by investigators
to be  genuine -- that shows Amri pledging allegiance to the militant group's
leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi.

Thursday, German prosecutors released a 40-year-old Tunisian national who was
detained Wednesday on suspicion of being Amri's accomplice. The man's cellphone
number was found saved in Amri's phone. Prosecutors concluded the man had not
been in contact with Amri immediately before the attack.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Kaepernick shows best, worst of '16

BYLINE: Jarrett Bell, jbell@usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1377 words


A look back at the NFL year that was 2016:

Best social statement: Colin Kaepernick quickly became one of the most
polarizing figures in the country as he ignited a movement by sitting and then
kneeling during the national anthem as a method to protest the killings of
unarmed African-American men by police as well as other social injustices. While
the then-backup quarterback of the San Francisco 49ers needed to explain that
his protest wasn't meant to slight the U.S. military, he brought attention to
issues that concerned many and sparked a national conversation. The bold move
demonstrated that often-apathetic athletes still possess such power if they are
willing to risk the fallout. It not only inspired other NFL players to engage in
various forms of protest but also provided fuel for athletes in other sports on
all levels to make similar statements.

Worst blunders to undermine a social statement: Kaepernick should have been more
strategic in following up his protest after getting the eyes and ears of
America, not to mention the support of the 49ers, who donated to organizations
addressing social justice issues. Yet here are three things that Kaepernick did
that didn't help his cause: 1. Wearing the police-as-pigs socks. 2. Wearing a
T-shirt with the image of Cuban dictator Fidel Castro, then coming off as
misinformed and insensitive when it was called into question. 3. Failing to vote
on Election Day. Even if he didn't like the choice between Hillary Clinton and
Donald Trump, he could have engaged in the process nonetheless. There were other
candidates for posts lower on the ballot and other issues that he could have
used his vote to support.

Best example that the NFL draft is an inexact science: Dak Prescott was a
fourth-round pick by the Dallas Cowboys, selected 135th overall -- or 134 slots
after the Los Angeles Rams christened the draft by choosing former California
quarterback Jared Goff. Now, Prescott, flanked by fellow wonder rookie Ezekiel
Elliott, has a Pro Bowl selection on his résumé and shares the NFL record with
Ben Roethlisberger for most victories (13) by a rookie quarterback after
replacing injured Tony Romo. What did so many teams in the quarterback-starved
league miss about the Mississippi State player? Even the Cowboys made attempts
to trade up to draft Paxton Lynch, then Connor Cook, which proves that sometimes
the best moves are the ones that you don't make.

Worst footage from a Hard Knocks moment: The signature moment from the premiere
episode of HBO's Hard Knocks: Training Camp with the Los Angeles Rams was coach
Jeff Fisher on a rant, declaring: "I'm not going 7-9!" Fisher was right. He
didn't go 7-9. He was wrong, too. The Rams fired him in early December when he
was 4-9, robbing him of the chance to go 7-9 and ending a weird saga that
included a contract extension that wasn't announced by the team until days
before his firing and a spat with franchise great-turned-critic Eric Dickerson.
With his 165 career losses matching Dan Reeves for most in NFL history, Fisher's
dismissal did spare him from setting the coaching record for futility.

Best comeback: Steve Smith Sr. was set to retire last year but didn't want to go
out on the sour note of a torn Achilles tendon. Now, having proved he can still
get it done at 37, notching the 1,000-catch milestone, No.89 said Wednesday that
he was "89%" sure that Sunday's game at the Cincinnati Bengals will be the last
of his remarkable career. The Baltimore Ravens star will be missed for his grit,
fire and memorable remarks such as those uttered in 2014 after he dusted his
former Carolina Panthers teammates: "I ran around those boys like they were
schoolyard kids."

Worst double standard: Cam Newton seems to get blasted more than any other NFL
quarterback without drawing penalties -- despite the league's focus on safety
and head injuries. It hasn't helped that Newton has status as an MVP, an active
community servant or even a fashionista with his unique game-day attire. Nor has
it helped that Newton called Commissioner Roger Goodell or publicly declared
that he doesn't feel safe on the field. The no-calls on Newton have gone on for
years, while other quarterbacks seem to draw flags when a defender breathes too
hard on them. There are enough examples -- including Newton taking multiple
blows to the head in Week 1 at the Denver Broncos and the October game when
Arizona Cardinals lineman Calais Campbell crashed into his knee in the pocket --
to fuel the notion that Newton doesn't get the proper respect and protection
from officials. Needs. To. Stop.

Best free agency spending spree: New York Giants general manager Jerry Reese
sought to upgrade a defense that ranked last in the NFL in 2015 by guaranteeing
more than $100million on free agent deals to lure three players: end Olivier
Vernon, tackle Damon Harrison and cornerback Janoris Jenkins. It looks like
money well spent. The Giants are in the playoffs, and the 11th-ranked defense
sure has Dallas' number. The Cowboys' two losses have come against New York,
which has had answers for Prescott, Elliott and Dez Bryant.

Worst free agency spending splurge: Yes, Houston has a problem when it signs
Brock Osweiler to a $72 million contract (with $37 million guaranteed) and the
quarterback lands on the bench. The Texans went after Osweiler, who had limited
experience in Denver, because he was the best quarterback on the market. But
money doesn't always solve problems. When Tom Savage stepped into the lineup, he
became the eighth quarterback to start for the Texans in Bill O'Brien's three
seasons.

Best coaching debut: Adam Gase has lived up to his billing as a hot, rising star
in the coaching ranks. The Dolphins (10-5) are in the playoffs for the first
time since 2008, overcoming a 1-4 start. And the running back Gase delivered a
message to by leaving him home for the season opening trip to Seattle, Jay
Ajayi, became the fourth player in NFL history to rip off three 200-yard rushing
games in a season.

Draft maneuver to second-guess: The jury is out on whether the Cleveland Browns
made the right decision by moving out of the second slot in the draft and
passing on Carson Wentz. The early returns are not good, as Wentz, who beat the
Browns in his NFL debut for the Philadelphia Eagles, looks the part of a
legitimate franchise quarterback. Meanwhile, Cleveland is trying to determine
whether it can salvage Robert Griffin III's career. Sure, the Browns have a
stockpile of picks, including two in the top 10 of next year's draft. But until
they land a star quarterback, they will be linked (if not haunted) by what might
have happened with Wentz.

Worst contract dispute: The stalemate between the San Diego Chargers and
first-round defensive end Joey Bosa lasted until Aug. 29, which kept him out of
training camp, the preseason and the beginning of the regular season ... after
he got hurt once he finally hit the practice field. So much for the rookie wage
scale ensuring that every top prospect will arrive on time. The sticking points
in this dispute involved payout of guaranteed money and offset language in the
event that Bosa is cut before the end of his contract. When Bosa got into the
flow, it was evident that the Chargers needed him. With 91/2 sacks in 10 starts,
he's the difference-maker he was projected to be and probably the front-runner
for defensive rookie of the year honors.

Best rebound from Deflategate: Tom Brady missed four games serving a four-game
suspension for his alleged role in a conspiracy to keep footballs underinflated
in the AFC Championship Game in January 2015. Now he's the MVP front-runner as
the New England Patriots (13-2) match the Cowboys for the NFL's best record.

Worst NFL investigation: Ask Pittsburgh Steelers linebacker James Harrison and
Green Bay Packers defensive stars Clay Matthews and Julius Peppers. They never
failed a drug test but were implicated in a probe relating to
performance-enhancing drugs. They were ultimately interviewed (after prolonged
NFL vs. NFL Players Association sparring on the issue) and eventually cleared
along with retired quarterback Peyton Manning, but the case lingered for months
as the NFL followed up on seemingly flimsy allegations by a questionable source
in a documentary.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Honda Odyssey recalled to fix shifting seats

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 118 words


A defect that could cause second-row seats in the Honda Odyssey to shift
suddenly in a crash has triggered a recall involving nearly 634,000 units of the
minivan. Honda Motor issued the recall for 2011 through 2016 model-year Odyssey
vehicles manufactured from Aug. 17, 2010, through Oct.1, 2015, to fix the
defect. The defect involves a release lever that may remain in the unlocked
position unintentionally and allow the seats to move unexpectedly.

Trade deficit rises  to $65.3B in November

The U.S. trade deficit in November totaled $65.3 billion, up $3.4 billion, or
5.5%, from a month earlier as imports of goods continue to outpace exports,
according to data released Thursday by the Commerce Department.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: MONEYLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

2016 was a year of shockers;
Q: What were the biggest surprises this year?

BYLINE: Matt Krantz

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 190 words


A: 2016 was a year of shockers. There were so many unexpected events during the
year that it's hard to pinpoint the one that might have caught investors the
most off guard.

Donald Trump's unexpected win of the White House is certainly a surprise that
steered markets late in the year. Most investment professionals and pollsters
all but assumed Hillary Clinton was going to be the next president and priced
sectors and stocks for her stated platform. But when  Trump's victory was
announced, there was a sharp reaction. His tough talk on trade bolstered shares
of U.S.-centric stocks. His vows to restore manufacturing jobs boosted
industrials. All told, the S&P 500 rose 6% since the election on relief the
election was over.

Another big surprise hailed from the bond market. Yields on Treasury securities
jumped as investors anticipated an uptick in inflation.

Trump has promised to spend heavily to invest in the nation's infrastructure,
which investors presume will be done by borrowing.

Braced for a larger supply of Treasuries, investors sent the yield on the
10-year Treasury up to more than 2.5% after dropping to 1.37% in early July
2016.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Story stocks

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 147 words


Sears Holdings

Change

$0.82

% chg

10.0%

Price: $9.00

Day's high: $9.00

Low: $8.31

The struggling retail store brands company is borrowing more from CEO Eddie
Lampert's hedge fund. It obtained a secured standby letter of credit for $200
million, which could expand to $500 million. It was planning to close more
stores.

Amazon

Change

-$6.98

% chg

-0.9%

Price: $765.15

Day's high: $773.40

Low: $760.85

The e-commerce company awarded a patent for its "airborne fulfillment center."
It's an airborne warehouse using drones to make deliveries quicker. It says this
system would allow deliveries to be made in minutes.

Kate Spade

Change

$0.63

% chg

3.5%

Price: $18.49

Day's high: $18.65

Low: $17.16

After reporting lower-than-expected quarterly same-store sales in November, the
fashion design house is exploring a sale and plans to start a formal auction
process next month. There are six possible bidders reportedly.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

CRITIC'S CORNER

BYLINE: Robert Bianco, @BiancoRobert, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 214 words


Dick Clark's New Year's Rockin' Eve With Ryan Seacrest  ABC, Saturday, 11:30
ET/PT

Or New Year's Eve With Carson Daly on NBC, or Pitbull's New Year's Revolution on
Fox, or New Year's Eve With Anderson Cooper and Kathy Griffin on CNN. Any of
them will count you down into 2017. Oh, and all of them will air before and
after the clock strikes 12 -- but really, isn't that one moment all you really
need from them?

Great Performances: From Vienna: The New Year's Celebration 2017

PBS, Sunday, 7:30 ET/PT (times may vary)

If you've already seen all the football you want to watch and are longing for
something completely different Sunday, switch over to PBS for this lovely annual
musical event. Julie Andrews returns to  host as Great Performances takes us to
Vienna for a tour of the city and performances by the Vienna City Ballet and the
Vienna Philharmonic.

Ransom CBS, Sunday, 8:30 ET/8 PT

Like Fox, which is subjecting unwary football fans to the horrid The Mick (8
ET/PT), CBS is using the playoffs to launch a new show. In this case, it's
Ransom, which stars Luke Roberts as a globe-trotting crisis negotiator. The show
will normally air on Saturdays -- making it a rare first-run scripted broadcast
foray into a night that once housed some of the industry's best and most popular
shows.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Matt Petit, ABC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

THE PLAYLIST

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 264 words


2016 has been a wild year. Big names competed, while rising stars had
breakthrough hits. When we look back on them, we'll remember these songs.

Formation

Beyoncé

Before she doused  fans with Lemonade, Beyoncé kicked off the year with
Formation's groundbreaking  video and Super Bowl performance.

Panda

Desiigner

Inserted in Kanye West's The Life of Pablo was a snippet of Panda, propelling
the then-unknown Brooklyn rapper to instant fame.

Closer

The Chainsmokers feat. Halsey

Few songs dominated the charts like Closer's earnest EDM love story.

Famous

Kanye West

The Taylor Swift diss. The eye-popping music video. West's year was full of
controversy, and Famous was its nexus.

Work

Rihanna feat. Drake

We couldn't take our eyes off Rihanna in 2016, from her steamy dancehall hit to
her are-they-or-aren't-they romance with Drake.

Black Beatles

Rae Sremmurd feat. Gucci Mane

In one of 2016's best success stories, the Mannequin Challenge dance craze
helped the young rappers score their first No. 1 single.

One Dance

Drake

Drake assumed his throne at the top of rap with his best-selling album Views.

Stressed Out

Twenty One Pilots

With a string of chart-topping hits like Ride, Heathens and Stressed Out, the
Ohio duo became 2016's most sneakily ubiquitous act.

This Is What You Came For

Calvin Harris feat. Rihanna

What started as an EDM hit became a pop culture scandal when Taylor Swift,
Harris' ex, was revealed as the track's co-writer.

No Problem

Chance the Rapper

2016 is the year that Chicago's favorite little brother rose from a rapper
beloved by his fervent fanbase to one beloved by just about everyone.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo BeyoncJ by Daniela Vesco, Invision, for Parkwood Entertainment
Invision, for Parkwood Entertainment

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LISTEN UP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Ryan Adams, 'To Be Without You'

BYLINE: Maeve McDermott

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 131 words


After recording an album of someone else's  songs -- his beloved covers of
Taylor Swift's 1989 tracks, released last year -- Ryan Adams is returning to his
own heartbreak. Leaving behind the  power chords of his first single, Do You
Still Love Me, his latest, To Be Without You, channels the lonesome folk-rock
that has become one of his  hallmarks. Despite the acclaim for his 1989 covers,
To Be Without You sees the singer/songwriter in a  dark spot; his  divorce from
Mandy Moore is the inspiration behind his new album, Prisoner, out Feb. 17. But
Adams wants his new music to do more than just emotionally affect his fans; he
wants to  inspire listeners to keep moving forward. As he  shared in an
Instagram post about Prisoner, "It's a map for anybody who got lost like I get
lost."

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Dan Hallman, Invision/AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LISTEN UP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Week 17 games

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 8C

LENGTH: 2237 words


Chicago Bears (3-12)

at Minnesota Vikings (7-8)

TV: Sunday, 1 p.m. ET, Fox (Dick Stockton, David Diehl, Kristina Pink)

Line: Vikings by 61/2

Injury report: Bears LB Leonard Floyd is in concussion protocol and unlikely to
play. Vikings RB Adrian Peterson (knee, groin) is unlikely to play.

Key to the game: Unknown wideouts. Vikings WR Adam Thielen caught 12 passes for
202 yards and two touchdowns (all personal bests) Saturday, and Bears WR Cameron
Meredith had a career-high 135 yards.

Player to watch: Vikings QB Sam Bradford. His best career passing day --
34-for-50 for 382 yards and three TDs -- was overshadowed last week. His 71.3%
completion rate also has been minimized by Minnesota's horizontal offense and
overall downward spiral, but he's on pace to break Drew Brees' NFL single-season
record (71.2).

Cleveland Browns (1-14)

at Pittsburgh Steelers (10-5)

TV: Sunday, 1 p.m. ET, CBS (Kevin Harlan, Rich Gannon)

Line: Steelers by 61/2

Injury report: Browns QB Robert Griffin III has cleared concussion protocol and
hopes to play. Steelers TE Ladarius Green is in concussion protocol.

Key to the game: If Griffin can't play, Cody Kessler will start. He's learning
the NFL, improving his game and trying to forge a career. Not much will come
easy Sunday, but even if the Browns don't win, it's imperative that Kessler
maintain composure and keep trying to make plays throughout the game.

Matchup to watch: Browns LT Joe Thomas vs. Steelers OLB James Harrison. Thomas
is headed to his 10th consecutive Pro Bowl with Cleveland. Harrison is back in
the Pittsburgh starting lineup two years after announcing his retirement, and
he's playing at a high level. Thomas and Harrison know each other well and
always bring their A games regardless of the stakes. The Browns have had
offensive line issues, and to have any chance, they'll need to keep the Steelers
out of their backfield.

Baltimore Ravens (8-7)

at Cincinnati Bengals (5-9-1)

TV: Sunday, 1 pm. ET, CBS (Carter Blackburn, Chris Simms)

Line: Pick 'em

Injury report: Ravens LB Zachary Orr (neck) hopes to play; CB Jimmy Smith
(ankle) will not play. Bengals WR A.J. Green (hamstring) will not play; LB
Vontaze Burfict is in concussion protocol.

Key to the game: Keep it simple. The Ravens statistically have one of the NFL's
best run defenses, but that play has dropped off in December. The Bengals need
to establish the run and let their makeshift offensive line gain confidence.

Matchup to watch: Ravens WR Steve SmithSr. vs. Bengals CB Adam Jones. Even at
37, Smith shows up, no matter the circumstances or opponent.  He and Jones have
had their share of battles over the years.

Buffalo Bills (7-8)

at New York Jets (4-11)

TV: Sunday, 1 pm. ET, CBS (Andrew Catalon, Steve Tasker, Steve Beuerlein)

Line: Bills by 31/2

Injury report: Bills RB LeSean McCoy (illness) and WR Sammy Watkins (foot) are
expected to play. Jets RBs Matt Forte and Bilal Powell (knee) are day-to-day.

Key to the game: Powell, a sixth-year veteran, has filled in admirably for
Forte. In his last three games, Powell has averaged 138.3 yards from scrimmage
and totaled two TDs.

Player to watch: Bills QB EJ Manuel. After coach Rex Ryan was fired and replaced
by offensive coordinator Anthony Lynn in the interim, the Bills announced
Manuel would start in place of Tyrod Taylor, who played his best game in two
years last week. The Bills do not want to risk injury to Taylor, which would
automatically call for a $30million payout. Taylor will only get that extension
if he's on the roster in March.

Houston Texans (9-6)

at Tennessee Titans (8-7)

TV: Sunday, 1 pm. ET, CBS (Tom McCarthy, Adam Archuleta)

Line: Titans by 3

Injury report: Texans RB Lamar Miller (ankle) hopes to play; DE Jadeveon Clowney
(elbow) and CB Johnathan Joseph (ribs) are day-to-day. Titans QB Marcus Mariota
(broken leg) is out for the season; CB Jason McCourty (shoulder) hopes to play.

Key to the game: After Texans QB Brock Osweiler was benched with 16
interceptions and a 59.6% completion rate, replacement Tom Savage struggled to
hit targets against the Bengals. He will need to get chemistry going --
especially with WR DeAndre Hopkins -- before the playoffs.

By the numbers: A Texans loss would drop them to 2-6 on the road this season.
(They're 7-1 at home.) The last team to finish 2-6 on the road and advance to
the playoffs was the 2010 Seattle Seahawks.

Carolina Panthers (6-9) at Tampa Bay Buccaneers (8-7)

TV: Sunday, 1 p.m. ET, Fox (Thom Brennaman, Charles Davis or Chris Spielman,
Peter Schrager)

Line: Buccaneers by 41/2

Injury report: Panthers MLB Luke Kuechly (concussion) will not play; DE Charles
Johnson (hamstring) is day-to-day. Bucs RT Demar Dotson (concussion) hopes to
play; TE Cameron Brate (back) was placed on injured reserve.

Key to the game: If Carolina has any chance of knocking off Tampa Bay, the
Panthers will have to get better play out of the quarterback position. Cam
Newton made no mention of a sore throwing shoulder after the Falcons game,
though his abysmal performance begged for a logical explanation.

Matchup to watch: Bucs running backs vs. Panthers MLB A.J. Klein. A week after
Doug Martin gained 42 yards in 16 carries against Dallas, RB Jacquizz Rodgers
fared only slightly better (15 carries, 63 yards, one TD) against the Saints.
Klein will be starting his sixth consecutive game in the absence of Pro Bowler
Kuechly.

Dallas Cowboys (13-2)

at Philadelphia Eagles (6-9)

TV: Sunday, 1 p.m. ET, Fox (Kevin Burkhardt, John Lynch, Pam Oliver)

Line: Eagles by 4

Injury report: Cowboys DE DeMarcus Lawrence (back) and DTs Cedric Thornton
(ankle) and Tyrone Crawford (shoulder) are not expected to play. Eagles RB Ryan
Mathews (neck) is on injured reserve.

Key to the game: No team runs the ball more than the Cowboys, and only the Bills
do it more effectively -- Dallas' 4.9 yards-per-carry average is second to the
Bills. The Eagles run defense has allowed 124 yards a game and 5.2 yards a carry
over the last three games.

Player to watch: Cowboys QB Tony Romo. With the NFC's No.1 seed secured, the
eyes of Cowboys fans will be fixed squarely on Romo, even if he never leaves the
sideline. If Dallas coach Jason Garrett pulls starter Dak Prescott to keep him
fresh and healthy for the playoffs, will Romo get the call?

Jacksonville Jaguars (3-12)

at Indianapolis Colts (7-8)

TV: Sunday, 1 pm. ET, CBS (Spero Dedes, Solomon Wilcots)

Line: Colts by 41/2

Injury report: Jaguars WR Marqise Lee (hip flexor) and RB Chris Ivory
(hamstring) are expected to play; WR Allen Hurns (hamstring) is unlikely to
play. Colts WR Donte Moncrief (shoulder) is unlikely to play.

Key to the game: QB turnovers. The Colts' Andrew Luck and the Jaguars' Blake
Bortles have thrown a combined 28 interceptions this season, with Bortles tied
for fourth in the league with 16 picks and Luck not far behind.

By the numbers: 4. Depending on how Week17 plays out, the Jaguars could pick as
high as second in the 2017 NFL draft and as low as sixth. They're projected by
many to pick fourth.

New England Patriots (13-2)

at Miami Dolphins (10-5)

TV: Sunday, 1 pm. ET, CBS (Ian Eagle, Dan Fouts, Evan Washburn)

Line: Patriots by 91/2

Injury report: Patriots QB Tom Brady (thigh) expects to play; LB Dont'a
Hightower (knee) is day-to-day. Dolphins CB Byron Maxwell (ankle) is not
expected to play.

Key to the game: Veteran backup QB Matt Moore has helped the Dolphins secure a
playoff berth in the absence of injured Ryan Tannehill, guiding them to a
fourth-quarter win and an overtime victory. Moore can make plays and keep
mistakes to a minimum, as evidenced by his six TD passes and two interceptions.

By the numbers: 15.7. NFL-low number of points the Patriots are yielding per
game.

New Orleans Saints (7-8)

at Atlanta Falcons (10-5)

TV: Sunday, 4:25 p.m. ET, Fox (Kenny Albert, Daryl Johnston, Laura Okmin)

Line: Falcons by 7

Injury report: Saints LB Dannell Ellerbe (foot) and FB John Kuhn (hip) are
expected to play. Falcons WR Taylor Gabriel (foot) is day-to-day.

Key to the game: The defense that best slows Saints QB Drew Brees and Falcons QB
Matt Ryan and their prolific offensive units likely will emerge victorious, a
task easier said than done. Both are in the top five leaguewide in TD passes,
passing yards and passer rating.

By the numbers: 13. Players who have caught TD passes from Ryan this season, an
NFL single-season record by a quarterback. Ryan set the mark Saturday when TEs
Joshua Perkins and D.J. Tialavea each caught a scoring pass vs. Carolina.

New York Giants (10-5) at Washington Redskins (8-6-1)

TV: Sunday, 4:25 p.m. ET, Fox (Joe Buck, Troy Aikman, Erin Andrews)

Line: Redskins by 71/2

Injury report: Giants CB Janoris Jenkins (back) is unlikely to play. Redskins TE
Jordan Reed (shoulder) and RB Robert Kelley (knee) are expected to play.

Key to the game: The Giants' playoff position is set in stone, no matter what
happens Sunday, but Washington has to win to get in. The Redskins will be
playing to win, but will the Giants try to spoil it for their NFC East rivals or
rest their stars in a meaningless game?

Matchup to watch: Giants QB Eli Manning vs. Redskins QB Kirk Cousins. It would
have seemed strange to say this at the beginning of the season, but it's
Manning, the two-time Super Bowl MVP, who enters this game with something to
prove. While Cousins has been consistent -- and at times spectacular -- for
Washington, Manning has been erratic and at times awful.

Seattle Seahawks (9-5-1)

at San Francisco 49ers (2-13)

TV: Sunday, 4:25 p.m. ET, Fox (Joe Davis, Brady Quinn, Shannon Spake)

Line: Seahawks by 10

Injury report: Seahawks RB Thomas Rawls (shoulder) expects to play. 49ers LT Joe
Staley (hamstring) hopes to play.

Key to the game: Sustaining drives. Seattle's anemic rushing attack has featured
a 100-yard rusher in two games this season, but one of those was in a Week3 win
against San Francisco. The 49ers are even more incompetent when they try to run
the ball, especially with Carlos Hyde out.

Player to watch: Seahawks CB Richard Sherman.  He made himself a household name
after one memorable playoff win against the 49ers, and his mouth has been
flapping a lot this season. This might be the kind of game in which Sherman lets
his game do the talking -- provided the 49ers don't avoid him altogether.

Oakland Raiders (12-3)

at Denver Broncos (8-7)

TV: Sunday, 4:25 p.m. ET, CBS (Jim Nantz, Phil Simms, Tracy Wolfson)

Line: Broncos by 1

Injury report: Raiders LG Kelechi Osemele (ankle) hopes to play. Broncos CB T.J.
Ward is in concussion protocol.

Key to the game: The Raiders need a victory to win the division and get an off
week before their first playoff game. They also want to show they can be
dangerous with Matt McGloin at quarterback.

Player to watch: McGloin. A walk-on at Penn State in 2009 and a Raiders
undrafted free agent in 2013, McGloin started six games as a rookie but has
55pass attempts since QB Derek Carr, who's out with a broken leg, was drafted in
2014.

Arizona Cardinals (6-8-1)

at Los Angeles Rams (4-11)

TV: Sunday, 4:25 p.m. ET, Fox (Chris Myers, Ronde Barber, Jennifer Hale)

Line: Cardinals by 61/2

Injury report: Cardinals CB Marcus Cooper (back) could play. Rams WR Kenny Britt
(shoulder), RT Rob Havenstein (ankle) and FS Maurice Alexander (concussion) are
day-to-day.

Key to the game: Hang on to the ball. Cardinals QB Carson Palmer has fumbled 14
times this season, his highest total since 2006. He has 13 interceptions. Rams
QB Jared Goff also is susceptible to turnovers.

Player to watch: Palmer. Is this his last game in a Cardinals uniform? Palmer,
who turned 37 this week, has had an up-and-down season but is playing some of
his best football down the stretch.

Kansas City Chiefs (11-4)

at San Diego Chargers (5-10)

TV: Sunday, 4:25 p.m. ET, CBS (Greg Gumbel, Trent Green, Jamie Erdahl)

Line: Chiefs by 51/2

Injury report: Chiefs RB Spencer Ware (ribs) could play. Chargers RB Melvin
Gordon (knee) hopes to play.

Key to the game: The Chiefs will have to be mindful of Chargers DE Joey Bosa,
who is staking a claim to being defensive rookie of the year. Last week Bosa had
two sacks, five tackles (four solo) with three for losses and three quarterback
hits. He has 91/2 sacks despite signing late and missing time early in the
season with a hamstring injury.

Player to watch: Chiefs TE Travis Kelce. After questioning the play-calling in a
Week15 loss to the Titans in which he had three receptions on five targets,
Kelce was targeted 12 times against Denver. Five of his 11 receptions produced
first downs, including three on third-down plays.

Green Bay Packers (9-6)

at Detroit Lions (9-6)

TV: Sunday, 8:30 p.m. ET, NBC (Al Michaels, Cris Collinsworth, Michele Tafoya)

Line: Packers by 3

Injury report: Packers WR Randall Cobb (ankle) is day-to-day. Lions CB Darius
Slay (hamstring) is expected to play; RB Theo Riddick (wrist) is day-to-day.

Key to the game: The NFL's front-runner to earn Comeback Player of the Year,
Packers WR Jordy Nelson is playing as well as any NFL wideout with a
league-leading 14 receiving TDs, including two as part of his nine-catch,
154-yard outing Saturday. With Cobb inactive last week with an ankle injury,
Nelson spent more time in the slot.

Player to watch: Lions WR Marvin Jones. He had a career day in the first meeting
(six catches, 205 yards, two TDs) but hasn't topped 94 yards since. The Packers
lost CB Ladarius Gunter (elbow) Saturday and have struggled against outside
playmakers. CB Damarious Randall must play big after being benched in Week15.

USA TODAY Sports

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

UFC has a lot on the line with Rousey;
Promotion could use healthy shot of her star power

BYLINE: Martin Rogers, mjrogers@usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 697 words


The narrative of the week is that Ronda Rousey is on a silent quest for
redemption, fighting for her pride, redemption and her future as the face of
women's mixed martial arts.

Yet as UFC 207 looms, the modern reality for the Ultimate Fighting Championship
is that she is battling for a whole lot more than that against bantamweight
champion Amanda Nunes at T-Mobile Arena on Friday.

With the company in a new era after its $4.2 billion sale to entertainment group
WME-IMG over the summer, it can safely be said that the UFC's immediate health
can be read parallel to that of its biggest stars.

With Conor McGregor as a sole exception, they come no bigger than Rousey, whose
combat skills and uncompromising personality made her one of the most
recognizable faces in sports before her looks (temporarily) and unbeaten record
(permanently) were damaged by a November 2015 knockout by Holly Holm.

A victory against Nunes, the Brazilian striker who defeated Holm's conqueror,
Miesha Tate, to claim the title in July, and the UFC could bank on a couple more
lucrative pay-per-view blockbusters to swell the coffers in 2017.

"I don't care about anything except winning this fight," Rousey said in a
fleeting appearance in a UFC promotional video. "I am not spending energy on
anything else."

A defeat, and things get considerably trickier for UFC President Dana White, who
counts Rousey as a close friend and makes little attempt to disguise the fact
that he wants her to do well.

The growing popularity of the UFC has allowed the likes of Rousey and McGregor
to grow into household names, enjoying a level of fame few could have predicted
for any combat sports exponent back in the early days as the company battled to
gain mainstream acceptance.

However, while the sport has a large and passionate following, the mega-events
that have the chance to surge well past a million pay-per-views require a
celebrity element. McGregor brings it. Rousey does, too, as long as she gets
back to her winning ways and carries on fighting.

White admitted that though he could envision a busy slate of title defenses for
the former Olympic judo bronze medalist if she defeats Nunes, he has little idea
what would happen if she lost.

The UFC has been forced to toe a problematic line between appeasing the growing
ranks of combatants that form the bulk of the roster and granting special
concessions to the elite group with the ability to generate serious fame and
fortune.

That number will shrink considerably if Rousey loses, mainly because of doping
indiscretions. Jon Jones is arguably the best pound-for-pound fighter in the
sport, but he's serving a one-year ban for a doping violation. Cristiane
"Cyborg" Justino might be the most dangerous female fighter on the planet, and a
bout between her and Rousey would do huge numbers, but Justino also fell foul of
the testers last week and faces an unclear future. The UFC's attempts to bring
in crossover appeal at UFC 200 backfired when former heavyweight champ and
current WWE wrestler Brock Lesnar failed a drug test after his victory against
Mark Hunt.

The organization does possess an incredible roster of talented athletes.
Dominick Cruz and Cody Garbrandt are outstanding performers who will compete for
the men's bantamweight title Friday, and Demetrious Johnson and brilliant
wrestler Daniel Cormier also are near the top of the pound-for-pound list. Yet
none of them especially moves the needle outside of the MMA world.

Hopes were high that youngsters Sage Northcutt and Paige VanZant, a duo with
model looks to match their fighting skills, could emerge strongly, but both were
defeated before Christmas and sent tumbling down the pecking order.

White did not become a multimillionaire without learning to roll with the
punches, but his life will get far easier in the short term if Rousey beats
Nunes and reclaims the belt.

Rousey was clearly troubled by the loss to Holm and even admitted on television
she had contemplated suicide. She is hungry to get the belt back and frankly
seems not at ease, perhaps needing a comeback victory to get her mind straight.

She needs redemptive solace, but perhaps the UFC needs her, and needs her
winning, even more.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Mark J. Rebilas, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

The voices we lost in politics;
Who'd replace them in Age of Trump?

BYLINE: Ken Rudin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 726 words


It's hard to imagine what kind of president Donald Trump will be. But it's also
hard to imagine a world of politics without those we lost this year. Pardon this
bit of melancholy for 2016. I just can't help but feel wistful over those who
left us: a Supreme Court justice, a first lady, presidential hopefuls, members
of Congress. Each departure made all of us a little worse off for it.

How could you have a President Trump and not have Justice Antonin Scalia
watching over how he interprets the Constitution? Scalia, the larger-than-life
pre-eminent conservative intellectual on the current court and its
longest-serving justice, died Feb. 13. Little could he have imagined how his
death would be made into a political football. The Republicans took a chance in
their battle with President Obama over a successor, and it paid off. Whether the
tactic was good for the country is another matter.

Reno vs. Sessions

Speaking of justice, we also lost the head of the Justice Department under
President Clinton, former attorney general Janet Reno. She died on Nov. 7. When
you think of the controversies of some of Trump's Cabinet nominees, such as Sen.
Jeff Sessions of Alabama for attorney general, you'll be reminded about what a
safe choice Reno was in 1993. She was confirmed unanimously.

Of course, Reno will be remembered for controversies of her own: the raid on the
Branch Davidian compound in Waco, Texas, that resulted in the deaths of at least
80 people; and the decision to return Elian Gonzalez to his father in Cuba after
his mom drowned in the escape attempt.

There were other former Cabinet members who died this year, including Melvin
Laird (Nov. 16), President Nixon's first secretary of Defense who oversaw the
beginning of the end of the U.S. involvement in Vietnam, and Drew Lewis (Feb.
10), the Transportation secretary under President Reagan who helped settle the
1981 air traffic controllers' strike.

Senate confirmation

For the record, the number of "no" Senate votes cast on the confirmations for
Laird, Lewis and Reno combined was ... zero. Trump's Cabinet nominees should be
so lucky.

Speaking of President Reagan, his beloved Nancy died this year as well. Their
love affair was one for the ages, but Nancy Reagan was far more than the adoring
and protecting wife, or the fashionable first lady.

She was a close and trusted adviser with canny political instincts, as well as
an agenda of her own: a voice on behalf of those afflicted with Alzheimer's and
a voice reminding people of the scourge of drug abuse. She was never more
valuable than when Reagan's presidency was thought to be imperiled, such as
after the attempt on her husband's life in 1981 or during the Iran-Contra
scandal that crippled his administration in his second term. Nancy Reagan died
on March 6.

New administration

It's always melancholy at the end of the year, reflecting on those who have left
us forever. One always wonders how these men and women would have responded to
the new president ... or any new president.

Sen. George Voinovich of Ohio (June 12) never hesitated battling his fellow
Republicans over tax and social issues. How would he have fared in the Age of
Trump? No one was more conservative than Sen. Bill Armstrong of Colorado (July
5). Would he have gotten along with Trump's brand of Republicanism?

Anti-establishment

What about the left?

With progressives in a bit of disarray in the aftermath of the Bernie Sanders
vs. Hillary Clinton struggle, how would a Tom Hayden (Oct. 23) -- who stood up
to Chicago Mayor Richard Daley, Vice President Hubert Humphrey and others in his
party -- cope with the Democratic establishment of today?

And what about the news media?

It's going to be tough enough to report on a new president who has such disdain
for the press; it's going to be even tougher doing it without Gwen Ifill (Nov.
14), the ground-breaking journalist who spent years as a print reporter at The
Washington Post and The New York Times before coming to PBS in 1999.

A large number of people are discouraged and dismayed by the lack of political
civility these days. One thing we all could probably use, maybe more than ever,
is someone, regardless of party, we can all rally around. A hero, even.

Alas, we lost John Glenn on Dec. 8 as well.

Ken Rudin is the former political editor at NPR. He is the host of Ken Rudin's
Political Junkie radio program.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jack Gruber, USA TODAY Network

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Resolutions we'd like to see

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 374 words


IN 2017, I RESOLVE TO

... spend less time with Twitter, more with the Constitution.

President-elect

Donald Trump

... spend less time with email, more with Wisconsinites, Michiganders and
Pennsylvanians.

Hillary Clinton

... stay on my own damn plane.

Bill Clinton

... stay out of politics.

FBI Director James Comey

... run my speeches through turnitin.com.

Melania Trump

... steer clear of any further references to "whipped out that Mexican thing."

Vice President-elect

Mike Pence

... steer clear of those 5-Hour Energy drinks.

Sen. Tim Kaine, D-Va.

... try those 5-hour Energy drinks.

Jeb Bush

... not repeat myself. Not repeat myself. Not repeat myself.

Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla.

... buy a newspaper.

Libertarian Gary "What is Aleppo?" Johnson

... buy a razor.

Stephen Bannon, chief strategist for Trump administration

... buy a comb.

Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt.

... write a tell-all memoir.

President Obama

... keep debate questions to myself.

Former Democratic National Committee official Donna Brazile

... keep my hands off the talent.

Former Fox News chief Roger Ailes

... keep my hands off other countries' elections.

Russian President Vladimir Putin

... tell Putin I can't be his BFF anymore.

Rex Tillerson, ExxonMobil CEO and secretary of State nominee

... unfriend each other.

Sean Penn and Mexican drug lord El Chapo

... drop my smartphone plan, for good.

Anthony Weiner

... drop Weiner, for good.

Huma Abedin, aide to Hillary Clinton

... cross that bridge when I come to it.

Republican New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie

... Google "what is Brexit" before casting ballots.

British voters

... polish that crystal ball.

Pollsters and pundits

... stop referring to the Galaxy Note 7 as a "hot" new product.

Samsung

... go back to giving out toasters.

Wells Fargo

... invest in basic antivirus software.

Yahoo

... wash our hands.

Chipotle employees

... apologize to our patients.

Pharmaceutical execs Martin Shkreli and Heather Bresch

... apologize to our investors.

Elizabeth Holmes, founder of biotech start-up Theranos

... avoid the 12th hole at Augusta.

Golfer Jordan Spieth

... avoid gas station bathrooms.

Olympic swimmer Ryan Lochte

... avoid buying a shirt.

Olympic flag bearer Pita Taufatofua of Tonga

... do it again in 2020.

Team USA gymnast Simone Biles

... do it again before 2124.

The Chicago Cubs

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Mark Vergari, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Stream these 10 terrific films right now

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 635 words


Arrival, Moana and Captain America: Civil War and are among the biggest and .
But there are plenty of films that may have slipped under your radar the past 12
months, featuring awards-caliber performances, true-life tales and
spine-tingling scares. USA TODAY's Patrick Ryan rounds up 10 of the best you can
watch at home:

1 Captain Fantastic

This quirky family dramedy blindsided Oscar pundits when it earned an
outstanding cast nomination from the Screen Actors Guild Awards, in addition to
best actor nods for Viggo Mortensen from both SAG and the Golden Globes. But
he's a deserving contender for his sensitive performance as an unconventional
dad who raises his kids as survivalists when their mother falls ill.

Where to watch: Amazon Video, Google Play, iTunes, Vudu, YouTube

2 American Honey

A Midwestern girl (Sasha Lane) hits the road with a roving band of magazine
sellers (Shia LaBeouf, Riley Keough) in Andrea Arnold's raw coming-of-age
masterpiece, which made off with the coveted Jury Prize at the Cannes Film
Festival.

Where to watch: Amazon Video, Google Play, iTunes, Vudu, YouTube

3 Krisha

A recovering alcoholic (Krisha Fairchild) comes to her sister's house for
Thanksgiving to reconnect with her estranged family. But her uneasy fa¸ade is
chipped away in 83 nerve-wracking minutes, haunting viewers with a devastating
portrayal of addiction and its ripple effects.

Where to watch: Amazon Prime, Amazon Video, Google Play, iTunes, Vudu, YouTube

4 O.J.: Made in America

Thanks to a limited run in theaters, this almost eight-hour ESPN documentary is
now widely predicted to be the Oscar front-runner for best documentary. It's no
wonder, with its timely examination of the roles of class, race and celebrity in
the life and murder trial of O.J. Simpson.

Where to watch: Amazon Video, Google Play, Hulu, iTunes, WatchESPN

5 Blue Jay

After riveting us in American Horror Story and The People v. O.J. Simpson, it's
refreshing to see Sarah Paulson in a role she never gets to play: a romantic
lead. Despite its predictable climactic twist, this indie dramedy feels fresh
thanks to Paulson's palpable chemistry with Mark Duplass, playing reunited exes.

Where to watch: Amazon Video, Google Play, iTunes, Netflix, Vudu, YouTube

6 Under the Shadow

In one of the best years for horror in recent memory, Babak Anvari's Iranian
thriller stands out. Deftly balancing family drama with atmospheric chills, this
Tehran-set story of a  girl (Avin Manshadi) haunted by an evil spirit is 2016's
answer to The Babadook.

Where to watch: Amazon Video, Google Play, Vudu, YouTube

7 Wiener-Dog

The premise is deceptively simple: A dog is passed between a string of oddball
owners (Julie Delpy, Greta Gerwig, Danny DeVito and Ellen Burstyn) at different
stages of life.  What you may not expect is that it's also one of the wittiest,
bleakest and, frankly, weirdest comedies in years.

Where to watch: Amazon Prime, Amazon Video, Vudu

8 Indignation

First-time director James Schamus enthralls with this  adaptation of Philip
Roth's American Pastoral, featuring Logan Lerman's performance a college student
wrestling with religion and sexual repression.

Where to watch: Amazon Video, Google Play, iTunes, Vudu, YouTube

9 Tickled

A journalist stumbles on "competitive endurance tickling" videos online, only to
uncover their mysterious, sleazy origins. It's a stranger-than-fiction
documentary that's equal parts fascinating and unsettling.

Where to watch: Amazon Video, Google Play, iTunes, Vudu, YouTube

10 The Innocents

In this unflinching French-language drama, a young doctor (Lou de Laâge) is
summoned to a Polish convent in 1945, where she discovers multiple nuns have
been raped and impregnated by Soviet soldiers. It's an important slice of
overlooked history.

Where to watch: Amazon Prime, Amazon Video, Google Play, iTunes, Vudu, YouTube

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Cathy Kanavy, Bleecker Street

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Broncos' Phillips closes in on being free agent

BYLINE: Tom Pelissero, @TomPelissero, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 7C

LENGTH: 441 words


Amid scrutiny of the Denver Broncos' offensive issues and their future at
quarterback, an unresolved situation on the other side of the ball bears
watching as general manager John Elway, coach Gary Kubiak and Co. sort through
the wreckage of a lost season.

Veteran defensive coordinator Wade Phillips' contract is set to expire soon
after this season ends, opening the possibility that he could be coaching
elsewhere in 2017, people with knowledge of the situation told USA TODAY Sports.

Phillips agreed to join the Broncos on a two-year contract in late January 2015.
The sides discussed an extension after Phillips' top-ranked defense drove
Denver's Super Bowl title run last season, but they never agreed to terms, said
the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because contract matters were to
remain private.

In his 46th season of coaching and showing no signs of wanting to retire as his
70th birthday approaches, Phillips is set to become a free agent a few weeks
after Sunday's finale against the Oakland Raiders. So the clock is ticking for
Denver to extend his contract or risk losing a respected defensive mind.

Though the Broncos' goal is continuity, they believe they have a tremendous
staff on defense beyond Phillips, led by defensive line coach Bill Kollar,
linebackers coaches Reggie Herring and Fred Pagac and defensive backs coach Joe
Woods.

Phillips has a history with Kubiak and was his coordinator on the Houston Texans
from 2011 to 2013 before he spent 2014 out of football. Few potential suitors
could offer personnel rivaling Von Miller, Aqib Talib, Chris Harris Jr., etc.
The most logical outcome is Phillips getting a new deal and staying. But until a
deal is done, nothing is certain.

The Associated Press named Phillips the NFL assistant coach of the year last
season, when his defense carried a Broncos team that went through multiple
quarterback changes. It shut down Carolina Panthers star Cam Newton in a Super
Bowl 50 victory.

The Broncos are 8-7 this season and were eliminated from playoff contention last
weekend. The loss of defensive lineman Malik Jackson to free agency and injuries
to Vance Walker and others have contributed to Denver's struggles stopping the
run. But Phillips' defense again ranks among the NFL leaders in several key
categories, including yards per play (first), yards per pass play (first), sacks
per pass play (third) and third-down efficiency (seventh).

Other questions facing the team's brain trust include the plan under center. The
Broncos could look outside the building to find competition for incumbent
quarterback Trevor Siemian and first-round draft pick Paxton Lynch next season.


LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Ron Chenoy, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

Big tests loom for remaining unbeaten teams

BYLINE: Scott Gleeson, @scottmgleeson, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 697 words


As conference play starts, there are but a few unbeaten teams in college
basketball. Previously undefeated No. 2 UCLA fell Wednesday, thanks to a
three-pointer from Oregon's Dillon Brooks.

Two of the five remaining teams without a loss meet Saturday in a New Year's Eve
showdown as defending national champion Villanova (13-0) visits Creighton (13-0)
in a matchup between the Big East's best teams. The Bluejays have been one of
the young season's biggest surprises and figure to give the Wildcats a tough
test on a sure-to-be-raucous CenturyLink Center home court.

Of the remaining undefeated teams, here's an outlook on how they've excelled and
when each could be dealt its first loss:

No. 1 Villanova (13-0)

Why they started hot: The Wildcats have simply found ways to win, starting with
a three-point victory against Purdue (Nov. 14), a narrow escape against Notre
Dame (Dec. 10) and finally a victory against unexpectedly tough DePaul on
Wednesday. The formula has been what it usually is for Jay Wright's teams: great
guard play and hot shooting (50.4% to rank 12th nationally).

Loss forecast: Obviously, playing on the road against the likely top Big East
challenger in front of 17,000-plus fans adds to the difficulty in remaining
undefeated. If Villanova survives Creighton, it doesn't get any easier -- next
up is Butler, on the road, on Jan. 4 -- though returning home helps in games vs.
Marquette (Jan. 7) and No. 17 Xavier (Jan. 10).

No. 4 Baylor (12-0)

Why they started hot: More than anything, Baylor has been efficient, ranking in
the top 10 in field goal percentage (50.6% from the floor) and scoring defense
(ninth, limiting opponents to 58.7 points a game). Scott Drew's team takes good
care of the ball, with an assist-to-turnover ratio of 1.55, and that's a large
credit to point guard Manu Lecomte (11.6 ppg, 5.4 apg). Meanwhile, Johnathan
Motley (16.0 ppg, 8.7 rpg) has asserted himself as a key member of the
frontcourt.

Loss forecast: It gets tough right away, with a matchup on the road at Oklahoma
on Friday. Home games vs. Iowa State (Jan.4) and Oklahoma State (Jan.7) are
easier -- if there is such a luxury in the Big 12.

No. 6 Gonzaga (13-0)

Why they started hot: Nigel Williams-Goss (14.0 ppg, 5.7 rpg, 4.8 apg). The
transfer from Washington has given coach Mark Few a crafty point guard to steer
the offense, and he has been a perfect fit. One key statistic: Gonzaga is fourth
nationally in field goal percentage defense, limiting opponents to 36.1%
shooting. Yes, defense.

Loss forecast: The obvious answer here is Jan. 14 against Saint Mary's, a viable
West Coast Conference challenger that beat Gonzaga twice last season en route to
the regular-season crown. But if the Bulldogs -- who got past Pepperdine 92-62
on Thursday night in their league opener -- take their foot off the gas, three
consecutive upcoming road games -- Pacific (Saturday), San Francisco (Jan. 5)
and Portland (Jan. 7) -- could do them in.

No. 9 Creighton (13-0)

Why they started hot: The offense has been spectacular; the Bluejays are
averaging 89.8 points per game -- led by Kansas State transfer Marcus Foster
(18.8 ppg) -- and rank second nationally in field goal percentage (54%). Maurice
Watson Jr. leads the nation in assists with 9.1 a game.

Loss forecast: Luckily, the Bluejays draw Villanova at home. This game will
feature two teams with fantastic backcourts, so the team that excels in the
frontcourt could come out on top. Even if Creighton wins, two difficult road
games (Jan. 4 at St. John's and Jan. 7 at Providence) are on tap.

No. 22 Southern Cal (13-0)

Why they started hot: Every year there seems to be an unbeaten team around this
time in the season that has been the beneficiary of a relatively weak schedule.
The Trojans have beaten decent teams -- Texas A&M, Southern Methodist and
Brigham Young -- but not great teams. That said, Andy Enfield's team is playing
well. Six players are averaging near or above double figures, starting with
Elijah Stewart (15.0 ppg).

Loss forecast: Friday at Oregon could be the first loss, given the Ducks'
momentum. Home games vs. Stanford (Jan. 5) and California (Jan. 8) are winnable,
but games at Utah and Colorado will be challenges.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Eric Hartline, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

2016 Athlete Awards serve up inspiration, bombast and more

BYLINE: Josh Peter, @joshlpeter11, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 947 words


Black-tie attire is suggested but not mandatory for readers about to consume the
following, USA TODAY Sports' 2016 Athlete Awards. The best part: No long,
rambling Oscar-like speeches from the winners. Without further adieu ...

Most Important Athlete: LeBron James

What, you were expecting Ryan Lochte?

James didn't help spark an international incident at the Rio Olympics or compete
on Dancing with the Stars, but he's still a slam-dunk for this award. After all,
James did the equivalent of scoring a perfect 10 when he led the Cleveland
Cavaliers to the NBA Finals title and gave Cleveland its first major sports
championship in 52 years.

But what lifted James from important to most important is his work off the
court. In addition to focusing the spotlight on social and political issues, he
committed to spending more than $40 million on sending disadvantaged children to
college.

Most Fun Athlete  to Watch: Simone Biles

She won four gold medals at the Rio Games and led the Olympics in
did-you-see-that moments. Here's what we saw:

Her signature move -- a double flip with a half twist on the floor exercise --
was so astounding it earned its own name, "The Biles." And America's gymnastic
daredevil was just as entertaining when executing the Amanar, a vault that
features a backhand spring onto the vault, followed by 21/2 twists in the air,
capped by a blind landing. Essentially, she's the Evel Knievel of gymnastics.

Most Bombastic Athlete: Conor McGregor

He tried to throw a folding chair at Eddie Alvarez. Tossed water bottles at Nate
Diaz. Unleashed profanity and wisecracks with a mouth that functioned like a
fire hose. Forget his fights. McGregor, the Irish mixed martial arts fighter,
turned UFC news conferences into must-watch theater. He drew comparisons to
Muhammad Ali, but his foul mouth conjured up memories of Richard Pryor.

Although McGregor lost to Diaz in their first fight, he finished the year
undefeated and unmatched as a showman who can sell a fight -- and sell himself.

Most Inspirational Athlete: Abbey D'Agostino

Put yourself in D'Agostino's track shoes for a minute. At the Rio Games, in a
qualifying heat of the 5,000 meters, she collided with Nikki Hamblin of New
Zealand. And when D'Agostino got up, she saw Hamblin was in distress. Now what?

An image that comes to mind is Mary Decker screaming in pain at the 1984
Olympics after being tripped by Zola Budd, who kept on speeding around the
track. But in Rio, D'Agostino helped Hamblin to her feet and, when she realized
she was too injured to run, she told Hamblin to go on without her.

"That girl is the Olympic spirit right there," Hamblin said.

Most Misunderstood Athlete: Colin Kaepernick

He's probably the most misunderstood patriot in America.

Colin Kaepernick bears responsibility for wearing socks bearing the image of
cartoon pigs dressed as policemen and for wearing a T-shirt with the image of
Fidel Castro. But in an effort to show his respect for the military, the San
Francisco 49ers quarterback decided to kneel rather than sit during the national
anthem.

And anyone who fights for social justice, pledges $1million toward the cause and
in the process risks his reputation and safety deserves respect -- and this
award.

Most Magnetic Athlete: Usain Bolt

Usain Bolt was the rock star of Rio. The Jamaican sprinter was electric on the
track defending his titles in the 100 and 200 meters and exuded a mix of swagger
and mischief off the track.

After winning gold in the 4x100 relay, he mouthed: "I'm the greatest." Yes,
quite possibly the greatest, but without question the most magnetic.

Most Overrated Athlete: Cam Newton

Newton is the NFL's best-dancing quarterback, maybe the best NFL dancer of all
time. He's also the most overrated of 2016.

His critics were muffled in 2015 when Newton dabbed his way to MVP honors and
the Super Bowl, where, oddly enough, his descent began. His subpar performance
in the Super Bowl continued throughout the 2016 season, during which Newton's
production and the Panthers' fortunes have plummeted.

Most Underrated Athlete: Tim Duncan

If only Duncan had taken marketing lessons from McGregor. Too late. Instead,
Duncan earns the most underrated award in part because he also ranks as the most
unassuming, for which there is no official award this year. (Check back in
2017.)

Duncan retired after the 2015-16 season, and the sporting public all but yawned,
despite the fact he was a 15-time All-Star, a five-time NBA champion and
three-time NBA Finals MVP. Duncan amassed 26,496 points, 15,091 rebounds and
4,225 assists, and we're guessing you barely noticed.

Most Dangerous Athlete: Draymond Green

First there was the kick between the legs of the Oklahoma City Thunder's Steven
Adams during the Western Conference finals. Then there was the contact with
James' crotch. Green, a forward with the Golden State Warriors, has a
(dangerous) knack for hitting opponents where it hurts most.

Green has seven technical fouls this season and is on pace to eclipse his total
of 13 from the 2015-16 season. Time to reform his ways?

"I won't change my approach for anything," Green recently told reporters, and so
opposing players had better cover up their nether regions.

Most Heartbreaking Athlete: Jose Fernandez

The sports world mourned the deaths of Muhammad Ali, Arnold Palmer, Gordie Howe
and Pat Summit. But the most tragic loss was Jose Fernandez, the Miami Marlins
pitcher with the megawatt smile who died in a boating accident Sept.25.

Fernandez, a charismatic Cuban, was a potential superstar. He was the National
League rookie of the year in 2013, a two-time All-Star and had a career record
of 38-17. But he was equally celebrated for his warmth and fun-loving
personality.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Robert Deutsch, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 30, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Our critic tunes us in to the best series of '16

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 675 words


Whatever 2016 may have brought elsewhere, to TV it brought an abundance of
riches. There were more scripted shows this year than any one person could watch
-- and more good ones than any Top 10 list can contain. Still, tradition wins
out, so here are USA TODAY TV critic Robert Bianco's  picks for the 10 best
shows of 2016.

Show of the Year

1 The People v. O.J. Simpson: American Crime Story

(FX)

A surprise, a revelation and -- in the end -- a healing gift, this miniseries
took a story many of us thought we knew and showed us how little  we really
understood. Tightly written and stunningly performed, particularly by Emmy
winners Courtney B. Vance, Sarah Paulson and Sterling K. Brown, O.J. was more
than just a crackling courtroom drama. It was a terrific exploration of the
strains of the early 1990s and a brilliant, humanizing story about the people
most directly affected by the event. TV coverage of the trial tended to turn
Johnnie Cochran and Marcia Clark into buffoonish cartoons; how fitting it is
that TV, with a huge assist from producer/director Ryan Murphy, Vance and
Paulson, has now turned them back into human beings.

2 Atlanta

(FX)

This dazzling tragicomedy was an artistic breakthrough for star, writer and
creator Donald Glover and a welcome reminder that America has always been a more
interesting and diverse country than TV sometimes lets on. Playful, brave and
shockingly accomplished, Atlanta may be the first major series to treat poverty
as its driving force and subject, rather than using it to set up a story about
drugs, gangs and crime.

3 The Americans

(FX)

It isn't often  an already great series gets even better, so when that happens,
we need to celebrate. Feeling ever more timely, this FX jewel is a family drama
disguised as a spy story as the Cold War threatens to cause a country, and a
family, to implode.

4 Insecure

(HBO)

In a year highlighted by terrific new talents, none  shone much brighter than
Issa Rae. As star and writer, she showed us the glories that await when smart,
funny, humane and -- in this case -- profane new voices are given a chance to be
heard.

5 Full Frontal with Samantha Bee

(TBS)

Seldom has righteous anger and a take-no-prisoners  approach combined for better
results. Unlike more namby-pamby comedians, Bee does not alter her act for
universal appeal. But for those who came to love her, Full Frontal was the best
thing to come out of this election season.

6 Westworld

(HBO)

Well, that was ... something. What exactly was going on in this extremely
well-acted mix of sci-fi thriller, conspiracy drama and rumination on the nature
of storytelling is still up for debate. But at least it's a show worth debating.

7 Black-ish

(ABC)

Broadcast's best series, this comedy (like Speechless and Mom) is a throwback to
the days when network sitcoms actually tried to reflect, comment upon and even
improve the world around them. And it did so while being consistently funny,
which is no easy task.

8 The Night Of

(HBO)

A tragedy with darkly comic overtones, this searing HBO series examined the
losing battle waged by those swept into the criminal justice system to emerge
with their lives and their dignity intact. Driven by great performances from Riz
Ahmed and John Turturro, this  adaptation of a British series never felt less
than 100%  American -- to both our pride and dismay.

9 The Crown

(Netflix)

Come for the glittering excess in what is said to be one of the most expensive
series ever made. Stay for Peter Morgan's insightful script and a near flawless
cast, led by Claire Foy as a young Queen Elizabeth II launching her
record-setting reign.

10 Speechless

(ABC)

Another example of the fine work the broadcast networks can still do when they
set their minds and money to it, this gutsy comedy about a strong-willed mother
fighting for her son with cerebral palsy is one of the funniest and most
authentic shows on the air. And what a cast, led by a high-energy turn from
Minnie Driver -- making the most of her best TV role yet -- and sweet, skillful
and sometimes poignant performance from Micah Fowler.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Roles of the 'Century' for Gerwig and Bening;
Offbeat drama explores love and contradictions

BYLINE: Patrick Ryan, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 498 words


When Greta Gerwig was a kid, her mom always insisted that she pack her lunch and
lay out her clothes the night before school.

"I always thought, 'When I grow up, I won't be like that,'" says Gerwig, 33,
sitting with her 20th Century Women co-star Annette Bening. Now "I have friends
who have kids, and when I've stayed with them, I'd start to be like, 'You need
to lay out their clothes the night before. We're not going to make all these
decisions in the morning.' And I thought, 'Oh, I've become my mother.'"

A parent's love, lessons and little quirks are at the heart of 20th Century
Women (in theaters Wednesday in New York and Los Angeles; expands nationwide
Jan. 20), which is nominated for two Golden Globe awards, including best comedy
or musical and actress (Bening). The feel-good drama boasts "a note-perfect
ensemble anchored by a never-better" Bening, writes The Hollywood Reporter's
David Rooney, and pundits on GoldDerby.com predicting Oscar nominations for both
her and Gerwig.

Bening plays eccentric single mother Dorothea, who is struggling to raise her
15-year-old son, Jamie (Lucas Jade Zumann), in '70s-era Santa Barbara, Calif.
Feeling increasingly out of step with Jamie and the ever-changing world,
Dorothea calls on her tenant, a punk photographer named Abbie (Gerwig), and
Jamie's boyhood crush, Julie (Elle Fanning), to help "raise" him to become a
man, whether that means teaching him about feminism or how to smoke a cigarette.

"What I appreciate about this story is that there are three very different
women," says Bening, 58, who  applauds writer/director Mike Mills for his
textured female roles. "You don't see a lot of complex stories about teenage
girls, but the way that he's written Elle's character, there's this dark side.
... There's all these contradictions  he puts together."

20th Century is Mills' first movie since 2010's Beginners, which was inspired by
his real-life father, who came out as gay at age 75. His latest is a similarly
autobiographical tribute to his mother, a child of the Great Depression who
looked like Amelia Earhart, aspired to be a pilot and worked as a draftswoman.
She died of brain cancer in 1999.

In Dorothea,  "I needed a natural, (middle-aged) woman who had some androgyny
and an emotional intelligence," says Mills, 58. "I purposely wrote (her) to be
contradictory. ...  Meeting Annette, I was like, 'Oof, you're so that person.'"

Mills gave his cast  "research" materials to help them get to know their
characters, including  art and photography books for Gerwig.  "He's  great at
providing a library for your character that you can go back to," Gerwig says.
"For Mike, objects and artifacts are emotional."

Bening also tapped into her own experiences raising four children with husband
Warren Beatty and growing up in 1970s San Diego, as a self-confessed "theater
nerd" with an unruly streak.

"I had a wild side," Bening says, smirking. "But I haven't told my children
enough about that yet, so I'm not going to tell you."

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Possible sale of Kate Spade catapults shares;
Stock leaps 23% amid reports that a deal may be in the works for the luxury
handbag maker

BYLINE: Nathan Bomey, @NathanBomey, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 304 words


Shares of luxury handbag maker Kate Spade leaped Wednesday after news reports
surfaced about a possible sale of the company.

The move comes amid a deteriorating environment for upscale handbags and a
strong U.S. dollar that's dampening foreign tourist spending.

The handbag, clothing and jewelry maker "is working with an investment bank and
has contacted possible buyers," The Wall Street Journal reported. Kate Spade
stock jumped  23% to close at $17.86 Wednesday as investors cheered the prospect
of a deal.

The move comes after an activist hedge fund, Caerus Investors, urged a potential
sale in November, saying it was "deeply concerned about the precipitous decline
in the share price of Kate Spade over the last two and a half years brought
about by management's inability to meet their own stated goals."

The company has been grappling with a sluggish luxury market, lower growth in
China and unfavorable currency rates, which have made it more expensive for
foreign tourists to buy its goods in the U.S. In August, it lowered its  profit
outlook.

The broader luxury market also is sagging, as evidenced by the S&P Global Luxury
Index's 2.6% decline over the past year.

The North American handbag market has slowed to annual sales growth in the "low
single digits," retail analyst Marie Driscoll of The Robin Report wrote Nov. 15.

"A variety of factors stalled growth, including reduced mall traffic, fewer
international consumers shopping at full price and at flagship outlet
destinations, ... (and) increased promotional activity online," Driscoll said.

Kate Spade spokeswoman Emily Garbaccio declined to comment.

The Journal reported that potential suitors could include rival Coach, other
luxury goods makers or private equity firms. Kate Spade has 431 stores
worldwide, including 174 company-owned locations in the U.S.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

What to watch;
Once-bullish January turns treacherous

BYLINE: Adam Shell, @adamshell, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 240 words


January used to be a bullish month for U.S. stocks. But not so in recent years.

Since 2000, the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index has posted losses in January
10 of the past 17 years, including a 5.1% drop in  2016. (The index posted gains
in the seven Januarys prior to 2000.) January now ranks No. 6 out of the 12
months in terms of performance, The Stock Trader's Almanac says.

January has a reputation for setting the tone for the full year. The old saying,
"As January goes, so goes the year" fits for the S&P 500. The "January
Barometer," devised by the Almanac's Yale Hirsch in 1972, has had only eight
major errors since 1950 and has an accuracy rate of close to 90%.

Still, the January Barometer got it wrong this year. Despite a 5.1% drop in
January 2016, the S&P 500 is up 11% with two trading days to go in the year.

The good news? The S&P 500 has posted an average January gain of 0.7% in the
first year of a president's term since 1950. So, with Donald Trump set to move
into the White House in January, the chances are good that positive gains in the
first month of 2017 will translate into a full-year gain.

That said, how the S&P 500 fares in the first five trading days of January 2017
could serve as an "early warning" signal as to how the full year will play out.
In post-presidential election years, the first five trading days of the year has
correctly predicted the full-year market direction 12 of 16 times, the Almanac
says.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Buccaneers' Martin will enter drug rehab;
Running back seeks treatment as 4-game suspension starts

BYLINE: Mike Coppinger, @MikeCoppinger, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 386 words


One season after he was named a first-team all-pro, Doug Martin was a surprise
inactive Sunday.

Wednesday, we found out why.

The Tampa Bay Buccaneers fifth-year running back announced in a statement that
he was notified last week of a four-game suspension for violating the league's
substance abuse policy and that he will seek treatment.

"My initial instinct was to appeal the suspension and finish the season with my
teammates," Martin said. "However, after numerous discussions with people close
to me -- including coach (Dirk) Koetter -- I am starting the suspension
immediately so I can enter a treatment facility and receive the help I truly
need.

"On the field, I must be strong and determined to push through both pain and
injuries to become an elite NFL running back. Off the field, I have tried that
same approach in my personal life. My shortcomings in this area have taught me
both that I cannot win these personal battles alone and that there is no shame
in asking for help.

"I sincerely apologize to the Glazer family, general manager Jason Licht and the
entire Tampa Bay organization, my teammates and our tremendous fans. This was
not the season I envisioned, and I have let everyone down, including myself.
However, adversity yields opportunity, and I ask for your support in my battle
to overcome these personal issues."

Martin rushed for 1,402 yards and six touchdowns in 2015, bouncing back from two
injury-filled years that followed his 2012 rookie season in which he rushed for
1,454 yards and 11 TDs and made the Pro Bowl.

He averaged 2.9yards per carry this season and scored three TDs in eight starts.
He missed six games with a hamstring injury suffered in Week 2 after signing a
five-year, $35.75 million deal during the offseason.

"Doug has been a valued member of our organization for the past five seasons,
and we respect and support his decision to seek help,"  Licht said. "Right now,
he is working through issues that are much larger than the game of football. Our
primary concern is that he takes this time to focus on getting the help that he
needs in order to move forward with his personal and professional life."

The Bucs have faint playoff hopes, but Martin will miss the season finale
against the Carolina Panthers. He also will be sidelined for the first three
games of the 2017 season.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Kim Klement, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

A stolen heart, then prison

BYLINE: Kim Hjelmgaard@khjelmgaardUSA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 2554 words


The Soviet Union collapsed 25 years ago on Christmas Day. "Today, it's a new
day. ... God forbid the sad errors of our history are repeated," a TV newscaster
said Dec. 25, 1991. One of the cruelest "sad errors" was dictator Josef Stalin's
Gulag prison system -- forced labor camps for millions of criminals and
political dissidents.

The inmates built roads and railways and worked in mines and in the Soviet
Union's vast timber industry. Millions died from exposure, starvation, disease.

"There's not much interest in these people anymore," said Lyudmila Sadovnikova
of the Gulag History Museum in Moscow. "But there absolutely should be. Almost
every family in Russia is connected to this tragedy in some way."

Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, the celebrated author who chronicled the nightmare
conditions that political prisoners faced in "The Gulag Archipelago," wrote that
"people were arrested who were guilty of nothing, and were therefore unprepared
to put up any resistance whatsoever."

It has been 63 years since the Gulag camps were disbanded. Only about 3,600 of
18 million prisoners are still alive to bear witness to this dark period. That
is why the story about 87-year-old Lyudmila Alekseevna Khachatryan is so
important, and why she will never forget the date Nov. 20.

'At least let this girl take a sweater'

"It was the destiny of the Soviet Union to disappear," Lyudmila Khachatryan said
a quarter-century later as she sat in the living room of her drab Soviet-era
concrete apartment. "I miss nothing from this time."

Khachatryan was 18 when she was arrested on the doorstep of her family home on
the Raushskaya Embankment near Red Square. She has documents about her
captivity, and the Gulag History Museum has recorded 25 hours of her testimony.
Many details cannot be confirmed, but old photos and a still sharp memory tell
the story.

Born on New Year's Eve in 1929 to a wealthy military family, Khachatryan was a
lively girl. She did well in school. But she had a contrarian streak that often
got her in trouble.

"My mother was always saying to me: 'Why do I get so much hassle and grief from
you when other children I know are not nearly as naughty? Why, child?'"

That's why Khachatryan's life of crime started early. At age 8, she stole money
from her mother's purse to buy a statue of Lenin to bring to school.
Khachatryan's teacher had asked her to buy the statue, but her parents had
refused on principle. They hated the Communist Party.

"They were more mad that I had bought a statue of Lenin than that I was a
thief," she said of the porcelain statue that portrayed Lenin with a full head
of dark, curly hair. Most likenesses show him bald.

When her parents discovered what she had done, they whipped her with a belt.
"After that, I never stole anything again," she said.

Ten years later, she committed a crime that only the oppressive Soviet system
would recognize and punish her for by sending her to the Gulag: "What was I
guilty of? I can say it in one word: love."

Love of a foreigner.

He was a military officer from Montenegro, at the time part of Soviet ally
Yugoslavia. They had met by chance at a medical clinic. She was 17. He was a few
years older and had come to Russia to study at one of its prestigious military
academies. For several months, they met surreptitiously by the banks of the
Moskva River in central Moscow.

He regaled her with dramatic stories of Red Army battlefield victories and
boasted that he had been personally selected by Yugoslav leader Josip Tito to
get a Soviet education. She wore her mother's makeup, and on one occasion, it
smeared. A gentleman, he mentioned it only once.

"It was one of the last times I saw him. We had just said goodbye, and he turned
and said over his shoulder, 'As soon as you get home, please look in the mirror,
and never do the same again.' So I ran home, over the bridge, entered the house,
and because we had a lot of mirrors in the hall, I immediately saw what he
meant. There were black dots all over my face from the mascara. It had been
snowing."

They married in secret.

Because of her age -- at 17, Khachatryan was too young, according to Soviet law
-- the union was formalized by the Yugoslav ambassador in the embassy. In
Yugoslavia, the legal marriage age was 16.

"I had no plans to tell my mother," she said. "Of course, she found out about it
later."

Around this time, the relationship between Stalin and Tito began to sour. Soon,
there was a split. Yugoslav nationals, including Khachatryan's new husband, were
deported. Anyone who had communicated with foreigners was rounded up and
detained.

Khachatryan was one of them.

"There was no way to reach him. He was simply gone," she said.

"When the NKVD (later KGB) came to arrest me, they told my mother they would
bring me back home that same evening. It was near Artillery Day (which
commemorates the Battle of Stalingrad against Nazi Germany), and because my
father was an officer, it was an important time for us," she said.

"They didn't even let me take any warm clothes with me. My mother said, 'At
least let this girl take a sweater,' but they told her, 'No, no, don't worry
we'll bring her back in the evening.'

"We were about to go to a party to celebrate the holiday. My mother was wearing
the most beautiful dress, and my father was in his full military uniform. I am
glad I decided to take my mother's advice."

She brought the sweater. It would prove useful. She would be away nearly seven
years.

After her arrest, Khachatryan was taken to Moscow's Lefortova prison, where she
was interrogated.

"They removed all my clothes. And in all my holes, they put their fingers," she
said. "It's a terrible sin. But the most horrible thing that occurred to me at
this point was that I would never see my parents again.

"I don't remember if they washed me or let me wash before putting me in the
cell. You could not bring anything metal in there. They cut out two zippers from
my dress. All my underwear and the metal bits on my bra -- they took those. They
even cut out my initials from my handkerchief.

"They took pictures of me because I was shedding so many tears. It was like a
game to them. The ceiling of the cell was painted a brilliant-white color
whereas the walls were very dark green, and it gave this very visual sense of
having pressure constantly exerted on you. The walls closed in on you."

Living a nightmare

For Khachatryan, there was no trial. Only a verdict.

"My sentencing was done by a real Soviet-Communist type. Big. Fat. He said,
'Lyudmila Alekseevna Khachatryan!: In the name of the Soviet Union, blah blah
blah, after members of the NKVD, blah blah blah. You have been given a term of
work in the camps of eight years!' I started to shout at him, then realized a
girl next to me had received 15 years. I had gotten off lightly."

She had been in Moscow's Lefortova prison for three months. She understood that
she would never see nor hear from her secret husband again. The next day, she
was put on a train bound for the Soviet Union's northernmost reaches.

Khachatryan was brought to an area that appeared to be filled with wooden
churches.

It was the Kargopol-lag camp in the Arkhangelsk region -- the Russian Arctic.
Here, it was not unusual for winter temperatures to plummet to 49 degrees below
zero and to stay there for weeks.

What looked like wooden churches turned out to be some of the many structures
that formed part of the vast camp. It was situated on a massive territory that
had several train stations, dozens of barracks, administration buildings and
more. "You can't imagine how big it was," she said.

Anne Applebaum, whose book Gulag: A History won the 2004 Pulitzer Prize, wrote
that some of these camps had grown from "containing nothing more than a few huts
and some barbed wire (to) become true industrial giants." The largest housed
nearly 200,000 prisoners. Applebaum estimates that Kargopol-lag, a forestry
camp, was home to about 30,000 prisoners.

At first, Khachatryan was quarantined for two weeks, so camp officials could
assess her health and fitness. By day, she was put to work cleaning and
re-cleaning barrack floors. If she complained, which she did initially, she
would be given an injection that made her lose consciousness.

At night, interrogators would try to break her resolve through humiliation,
sleep deprivation, intimidation and other psychological tactics. There were few
meals, and she was hungry all the time.

"It was so cold, and the blanket in the cell was thin. Sometimes they would wake
me every 15 minutes. I was happy I brought the sweater. I would put my legs in
the sleeves to warm them."

Eventually, through a stroke of luck, Khachatryan was able to get a letter to
her parents to tell them where she was. They knew she had been detained but had
no idea where. A fellow inmate whose five-year term was coming to an end agreed
to smuggle out the missive. It was an extraordinarily courageous act considering
discovery could have meant re-imprisonment or even a charge of collaboration,
resulting in execution by firing squad. Stalin personally signed off on these
death lists, the Gulag museum said.

The letter probably saved her life. Within a few weeks, Khachatryan's father
appeared at the camp.

A second piece of luck  would prove equally decisive.

Her father and the camp's chief warden had served together under the same
general in World War II. Although they did not know each other at the time, it
was a sufficient excuse to share a bottle of brandy.

The two men drank late into the evening. Before dawn, Khachatryan's father came
to her cell. Still drunk, he told his daughter, "Your fate has been decided. You
will work in the camp's theater."

Although Khachatryan had no formal experience as a performer, for more than five
years until her release in 1953, she was partly occupied playing an American spy
on the stage.

'He would simply not die'

Nov. 20 is a black day on Khachatryan's calendar. She does not answer the phone.
The television is switched off. She refuses the company of all but close friends
or other Gulag survivors. When she was younger and more agile, she would travel
to the cemetery to ask her parents' forgiveness. She hasn't done so in years.

Nov. 20 is the day Khachatryan was arrested. She was released shortly after
Stalin died March 5, 1953. She was 24.

"It was all my fault, and after all these years, I feel this responsibility
still," she said.

As she spoke on the eve of this anniversary, Khachatryan traced with her thumb a
small circle over and over across a wooden cup holder.

Later she would do the same motion, square this time, on the back of an empty
picture frame. The more she spoke about her family, the more she continued
tracing.

"I made it so hard for them. I was their only child. They did so much for me."

This year, Khachatryan spent Nov. 20 with just one person, her doctor. They
ordered pizza and  shared a bottle of wine. Previously, this day would be filled
with a roomful of people, most of them Gulag survivors. They understood one
another even if they did not always agree. They talked of  politics, money, the
path Russia was on, whether people should be more interested in people such as
them.

"A lot of people are divided about the old Soviet Union. Some say, 'If Stalin
was in charge, the buses would run on time.' Others say, 'Why should we care
about these Gulag survivors? They worked outdoors, in the fresh air, the work
was not so hard, the government fed and housed them.'"

Virtually all of Khachatryan's friends have died.

She does not feel especially abandoned by the government or anyone else, in part
because she never really felt supported by them. Officially, she was compensated
8,100 rubles (about $130) for each year she spent in the camp. She did not
receive the money until Dec. 17, 1991 -- eight days before the Soviet Union fell
apart. When she went to claim the money a few weeks later, Russia's economic
collapse and runaway inflation had turned this payment into dust.

For years, Khachatryan refused to talk about her experiences, fearing the
potential consequences. "I was worried. I could go back to prison," she said.
"The Soviet Union had not been declared dead for that long."

After her release, she moved to Kharkiv in eastern Ukraine. There, her mother
took her to church and made her pray that she would never again contact "the
Yugoslav," as she now calls her first husband.

Kachatryan found work in a cultural center, giving art lessons to military
officers and performing on the side. She married again. Then for a third time.
She had a son, but he died of leukemia at an early age. She finds it too
upsetting to talk about him.

A social worker visits Kachatryan once a week and brings her supplies. Recently,
the government purchased her a refrigerator, a microwave and a washing machine.
This was not because she is a Gulag survivor but because her third husband, an
Armenian who had also been imprisoned in Stalin's camps -- for falling in love
with a German girl -- was due money for being a World War II veteran. A
musician, he died in 1997. The time they had together was a happy one.

"Nothing teaches people if they don't want to see. For me, Lenin was Russia's
butcher No. 1, and Stalin was No. 2. Lenin started it all. He was worse. That's
what people need to know."

There was something else she wanted to say: "Listen to me."

"Toward the end -- this was early 1953 -- we would run every day to the camp
doctor and ask whether Stalin was alive or going to die that day. We knew that
he was very ill at this point," she said. "And every day, the doctor would say
'die.' But he always lived. He would simply not die.

"Then one day, they announced it over a loudspeaker. Everybody was really
shocked and confused. No one had any idea what to do. Not even the guards.
Finally, someone took charge and told us to gather together, so we could pay our
respects. At this moment, we were all sitting on the ground, and so they told us
to stand up, so we could properly honor the greatest leader of our nation.

"But a friend of mine -- an actress who before her imprisonment, (Yugoslav
leader) Tito fell in love with and would send her black roses -- she refused to
stand up.

"Eventually, someone started to shout at her: 'Stand!' 'Stand!' Then others
joined in, before finally people were just screaming at her: 'Bitch, get up!'
'Bitch, stand up!' She never did."

Price of courtship

Until a few months ago, Khachatryan had kept her promise to her mother and never
attempted to make contact with "the Yugoslav." But a chance encounter with the
grandchild of a military officer who had known him convinced her that it might
be a good time to write a letter about what had befallen her.

It was too late. The letter reached his home a few weeks after he died. She
found out that he had gone on to have a distinguished military career, but she
learned few details about his personal life.

Khachatryan said she did not think readers of her account need to know his name,
although she did share it in the end. She also shared the single picture she has
of them together, as well as a personal dedication the actress wrote in a book
she published about life in the camps.

In her letter to "the Yugoslav," Khachatryan briefly described the price she
paid for their courtship. She did not ask him any questions about their time
together or anything else. She didn't want to know.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Kim Hjelmgaard, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

In new post, Kiffin makes risky hire

BYLINE: Nancy Armour, narmour@usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 672 words


Lane Kiffin is wasting no time putting his hard-won rehabilitation on the line.

After three years under Nick Saban's thumb, the wunderkind-turned-washout
finally got another shot at head coaching with Florida Atlantic. But instead of
keeping his head down for a season or two and letting his results speak for
themselves, Kiffin is displaying the same kind of brashness that was his undoing
the first time around. He hired Kendal Briles, one of the few people in college
football even more polarizing than he is, as offensive coordinator, and he
seemed to leave the door open for Briles' father, disgraced former Baylor coach
Art Briles, to have a role with his new program.

"(Saban) always says, 'It's not just about second chances, it's about what are
we doing with the kids? How are we educating the kids so they don't make the
same mistakes, so they learn from their mistakes?'" Kiffin said Wednesday at the
Peach Bowl, where Alabama plays Washington on Saturday in a College Football
Playoff semifinal.

"I get it way better now than, obviously, I did three years ago."

Does he?

Kiffin didn't just burn bridges at Tennessee and Southern California, he left a
path of scorched earth that still smolders. He doesn't need anything -- or
anyone -- to bolster the perception that he's a rogue operator hellbent on doing
things his way. Look how quick people were to assume he had signed De'Andre
Johnson when, in reality, the quarterback dismissed by Florida State for
punching a woman had an offer from FAU before Kiffin was hired. Kiffin also
doesn't need anyone undermining him.

Kendal Briles has the real possibility of doing both.

Let's leave aside for a moment questions about what Kendal Briles knew of the
sexual assault scandal at Baylor that cost his father his job. Allowed to stay
on after his father was fired, Briles spent the season in open rebellion of
interim coach Jim Grobe and university officials.

Loyalty to his father is understandable. But writing "CAB" on both of his hands
for Baylor's first game was a "protest" more apropos of a pouty teenager. That
he didn't tell Grobe he was doing it was an indication of how much disdain he
had for his employers.

That wouldn't be the only time Briles and the other assistants would publicly
blindside Grobe, either. There was their coordinated tweet taking a shot at the
university in October. Then the night before the TCU game, they released a
statement defending Art Briles.

Given that Baylor was thumped 62-22 by its in-state rival, Briles and his fellow
assistants could have used their time that week more wisely.

Briles might be an offensive guru, and his experience in run-and-shoot offenses
is something Kiffin lacks. But hiring someone who so willingly threw his last
boss under the bus as one of his top assistants is a risk. And Kiffin can't
afford to gamble with his second chance.

"Absolutely it gives you pause," said Florida Atlantic athletics director Pat
Chun, who said his concerns were alleviated after interviewing Briles himself
and asking "tough questions."

"It's not like Lane came here on Day 1 and said, 'Hey, this is the guy I'm going
to hire.' Lane's been very methodical," Chun added. "He's fully aware his first
staff is going to be either a sign he's advancing in moving the program forward
or it's something he's going to have to nurture along the way."

Which brings us to Art Briles.

Though Chun said unequivocally that the elder Briles is not part of the FAU
staff, Kiffin would say only, "We have a plan with that, and we'll discuss that
when we get down there." Unless that plan is telling Art Briles he'll have no
role with FAU, unofficial or other, Kiffin is setting himself up to fail again.

With baggage of his own, the last thing Kiffin needs is to saddle himself with
the 18-piece set Art Briles is lugging around.

"My plan is not in place to please the media," Kiffin said. "My plan is still in
place to do the best thing for our players and the people that hired me."

He'd better hope the plan works. The rest of his career is riding on it.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jasen Vinlove, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Series shows Florida State full of fun characters

BYLINE: , ,

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 714 words


OK. This gets kinda wild. The "reality" of reality TV.

In the morning, I interviewed several players from Florida State, and I bumped
into a camera crew that is filming the all-access documentary series A Season
with Florida State Football.

Then I went up to my hotel room and watched one of the earlier episodes, which
felt like I was living inside a bubble, as I stood back and looked at the
bubble.

The next day this guy comes up to me with a stack of papers. He wanted me to
sign a release to be on the show. Not that I'm going to be on the final episode
after Florida State plays Michigan in the Orange Bowl. Just in case they taped
me.

And I had to smile. I just love this series.

This fall, I got into a routine. Every Friday afternoon, while killing time
before my son played high school football, I'd watch an episode of A Season with
Florida State Football on Showtime.

My son's team kept winning, so I kept watching the series. Heck yes, I'm
superstitious. There's no way I'm going to mess with anything like that.

In no time, I was hooked on this fascinating, all-access, behind-the-scenes look
at this team that will face Michigan on Friday.

It feels like I know this team and these Florida State players, just from what
I've seen and heard on this show.

Here is just a small flavor:

It's a team coached by Jimbo Fisher, a coach who will go  aw-shucks on you --
"Holy moly, what a day!"

He can go all old school on you -- "You are gonna do it, and you are gonna do it
right!"

He can go all inspirational on you -- "There isn't an ounce of quit in any of
you!"

He can go all philosophical on you -- "I gotta know how somebody thinks before I
can coach 'em."

And then, your eyes will fill with tears after watching an episode about his
son, Ethan, who has Fanconi anemia, a rare genetic disorder that causes bone
marrow failure. "My boy is the most important thing in the world to me," Fisher
says.

It's a team that has a long list of interesting characters who have appeared on
the series.

There's Dalvin Cook, a truly special running back. "I love you guys," he tells
his teammates behind the scenes, after becoming Florida State's all-time leading
rusher.

There's defensive back Tarvarus McFadden, who overcame a troubled childhood. But
there he was, standing at practice, a ball magnet who has eight interceptions,
and he says, "Let's go, bros. It's time to go smash the offense."

There's quarterback Deondre Francois, who threw for 419 yards in his debut. Yes,
his debut. How Fisher has handled Francois has been fascinating. "Hey 12,"
Fisher says. "Boy that was fantastic. You gotta keep grinding."

There's DeMarcus Walker, a senior defensive end, who started out hating his
position coach, decided not to jump to the NFL, and now he gets emotional
talking about him. Michigan is going to have a heck of a time blocking Walker,
who has 15 sacks, tied for first in the country.

There's Derrick Nnadi, a defensive tackle whose parents are both from Nigeria.
He tried out for track, but his team didn't have a uniform that fit him. That's
how he ended up playing football.

It's a team with a strong sense of family. During team break downs, the players
hold hands: "One! Two! Three! Family!"

And with these guys, it doesn't sound like a cliché. It sounds real.

It's a team with a kicker, Ricky Aguayo, whose father came to America from
Mexico, an illegal immigrant who ended up working in the fields in Florida.

It's a team with a wide receiver, Nyqwan Murray, who is known as "Noonie" and
was raised by his grandmother, who is called "The Gangsta Grandma."

Or simply: "Grandma Gone Wild."

Gangsta Grandma?

As I said, it's easy to get hooked on this series.

So I went around the room and asked the players about being on the show -- while
that TV crew was still in the room. Strange, I'll tell you.

They all said the same thing. No, it wasn't a distraction. In fact, they all
seemed to get used to having a camera crew around. And yes, they have gotten a
kick out of watching the episodes.

By all accounts, it's been an incredible success.

Which got me thinking.

Wouldn't it be great if Michigan did this?

All-access Jim Harbaugh? The sleepovers. The satellite camps. Training camps.
Christmas camp.

Now, that would be fascinating.

Seidel writes for the Detroit Free Press, part of the USA TODAY Network.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Rob Kinnan, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Rest vs. rust debate for Prescott, Elliott

BYLINE: Lorenzo Reyes, @LorenzoGReyes, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 607 words


Should they play, or should they rest?

That's the question the Dallas Cowboys must answer as they enter a
regular-season finale that has no bearing on their postseason seeding but could
prove hazardous to star players nonetheless.

Quarterback Dak Prescott and running back Ezekiel Elliott make up the rookie duo
so vital to the team's playoff aspirations. And even as Dallas prepares to face
the Philadelphia Eagles in a largely meaningless affair, the two MVP candidates
are stressing that they want to remain sharp.

"Yeah, I understand that," Prescott told reporters Wednesday. "But the
competitor in me wants to play."

The Cowboys went into Monday night's game against the Detroit Lions having
clinched the NFC East and the home-field advantage that comes with being the
conference's No.1 seed.

Despite that, Prescott played all 52 offensive snaps and Elliott was removed
only after Dallas' 42-21 victory got out of hand.

"Especially with the bye in the playoffs, we want to continue this momentum,"
Elliott told reporters. "We don't want to take two weeks off to try to come back
and play at the highest level of football that you've played in your whole
career. I definitely want to play."

Dallas held a walk-through Wednesday, and as he has all week, coach Jason
Garrett didn't deviate from his script.

"We're going to prepare our guys," he said at his news conference. "Everybody
who is healthy is going to prepare and get ready to play their best ballgame."

Las Vegas, however, isn't buying what the Cowboys are selling.

As Dallas (13-2) prepares to travel to Philadelphia (6-9), the spread for
Sunday's game is hovering at four points, with the Eagles being favored. Though
that's a drop from the opening line, which was near a touchdown, sports books
are clearly anticipating that many Cowboys starters will get some rest. Pro Bowl
left tackle Tyron Smith won't be active as he nurses a knee injury.

"It's quality reps in this game against a quality team in our division that
we'll play for years to come that I'll face off against," Prescott said. "Any
reps I can get against a good team to get myself better to get some momentum
going for the playoffs, I'll take it."

Prescott added that he has not had discussions with the coaching staff about his
playing time and is "just going to be ready to play the whole game."

Against Detroit, he was sacked once but was also brought down six times on
designed runs, scrambles and a sack that was negated by a penalty.

"I took some unnecessary hits," Prescott said. "I wouldn't say I took too many
hits."

Elliott leads the NFL with 322carries, 34 more than the next-closest player,
Arizona Cardinals running back David Johnson.

"I feel good, actually," Elliott said. "In college, I was playing 80 plays a
week. So I think you look at it, I only play about 40, 50 plays a week max. I'm
not really playing that many plays in the pros, but I think my body is adjusting
well. I think that I'm doing fine, I'm doing great."

But how many hits is too many?

Just ask the Oakland Raiders, who must rely on backup Matt McGloin after star
quarterback Derek Carr broke his leg Saturday when the team held a 19-point lead
against the Indianapolis Colts. Oakland's Super Bowl aspirations have taken a
huge hit.

"You guys say meaningful games. Everything is meaningful," Elliott said. "I
mean, it may not matter if we win or lose it, but it matters in the total grand
scheme of things. We're trying to stay sharp. We're trying to have a sharp edge
going into these playoffs like a high-octane machine.

"We're not taking weeks off. We're not looking at it like games that are not
meaningful. Every game we play is meaningful."

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Tim Heitman, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Fiesta Bowl gets interesting downfield;
Clemson's WRs, Ohio State's DBs meet their match

BYLINE: Paul Myerberg, @paulmyerberg, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 1106 words


For Clemson co-offensive coordinator and wide receivers coach Jeff Scott,
preparations for the Fiesta Bowl began with an examination of Ohio State's
defense, a process that mirrored the coaching staff's groundwork for each
opponent during the regular season.

And then things changed. Eventually, an offensive coordinator rolling through
game film will find one weak link in the chain -- a defender who can be
exploited in certain matchups, for example, or a defensive formation that might
suit his system's approach.

"What I look for when I turn on video is who we can pick on," he said,
specifically within the Tigers' greatest strength: a deep, talented and varied
receiver corps that suits the All-America talents of junior quarterback Deshaun
Watson.

He didn't find one at Ohio State.

"I watched the entire season of Ohio State," Scott said. "You don't see that.
Overall, speed is what shows up, speed and technique."

A similar moment of painful clarity occurred at Ohio State. Even when
co-defensive coordinator Greg Schiano sees an opposing receiver make a great
play on film, he might think: Well, they're not going to get it on us. Our guys
will make that play.

Well, not with the Tigers.

"They're as good as we've seen," Schiano said.

Game within the game

They say defenses win championships. That games are won along the line of
scrimmage. But the Fiesta Bowl might be decided on the outside, in matchups
pitting Clemson's strength, a gifted and eclectic group of wide receivers, with
the Buckeyes' greatest defensive asset, a collection of defensive backs that
ranks as the nation's best.

"We've definitely got to be on our jobs," said Ohio State linebacker Raekwon
McMillan, who will be one of several defenders tasked with containing Clemson
tight end Jordan Leggett. "We can't take a play off, because a play off turns
into touchdowns. When they get rolling, man, they're hard to stop."

Within the bigger game -- a Fiesta Bowl pairing with a shot at the national
title on the line -- is a smaller contest, one that pits some of the nation's
best players at their respective positions.

Clemson's passing game, keyed by Watson, rolls through a sextet of
pass-catchers. The best -- and the one who strikes the most fear into Ohio
State's defensive game plan -- is Mike Williams, a lanky and high-jumping junior
who leads the team in receptions (84), receiving yards (1,171) and touchdowns
(10) one year after a neck injury cost him all but a few snaps of the 2015
season.

Beyond Williams, the Tigers lean on Leggett, junior Artavis Scott and sophomores
Hunter Renfrow, Deon Cain and Ray-Ray McCloud, with each filling one specific
role inside the greater framework of Clemson's offensive attack.

"If they have one great player, it's like basketball -- you can take one great
guy out of the game, or at least try to," Schiano said. "But when you have
multiple talented receivers, now they make you play even up."

Despite the Tigers' much-publicized battles with turnovers during the regular
season, no one team was able to slow down this receiver corps, let alone put a
cork on the group's productivity. But if any collection of defenders can -- or
if any unit has the required degree of athleticism, length and ball skills --
it's the Ohio State secondary.

No soft spots in defense

Much has changed since the last time these two teams met, in the 2014 Orange
Bowl, when the Tigers ripped through Ohio State for 378 passing yards and five
touchdowns. Urban Meyer overhauled the Buckeyes' approach to pass defense in the
aftermath of that loss, hiring current Rutgers head coach Chris Ash as his
co-coordinator and implementing a new approach: more press alignments, meaning
cornerbacks who stick to receivers at the line of scrimmage, and more man-to-man
coverage schemes.

Ohio State has seen this shift pay off, in the form of the nation's most
productive secondary. The Buckeyes lead the Football Bowl Subdivision in
pass-efficiency defense, are tied for first in yards allowed per attempt and
rank third in opponents' completion and fifth in yards allowed per game.

There are simply no soft spots. Sophomore cornerback Marshon Lattimore has
"exceptional ball skills," to the point where he'd be one of Ohio State's best
receivers, Schiano said.

Junior cornerback Gareon Conley is the team's most versatile defensive back.

Sophomore Denzel Ward, the Buckeyes' third cornerback, is "the most twitched up
of them all in terms of explosiveness," Schiano said.

And then there's sophomore safety Malik Hooker, whose sideline-to-sideline speed
and intuitiveness led Schiano to compare him to former Miami (Fla.) safety Ed
Reed. Clemson has depth, experience and versatility at wide receiver; so does
Ohio State at defensive back.

"Nobody's going to be really running wide open in this game," Leggett said.
"They're probably the most athletic people we've seen all this year. It'll be
interesting to see."

It'll be a challenge for Clemson, Scott said, but that was to be expected -- and
"they get excited about challenges," he said of the receiver corps. And the
Tigers' talent level will test the Buckeyes' theme of complementary defense,
where each cog in the machine is equally crucial to the unit's overall success.

The Tigers might borrow from the blueprint Northwestern used in its narrow,
four-point loss in late October that placed star receiver Austin Carr in the
slot across from reserve cornerback Damon Arnette, a freshman. After Carr's
158-yard performance, Meyer and the Buckeyes decided to slide either Lattimore
or Conley into the slot, a move that plastered over one potential defensive
Achilles' heel.

Yet that would leave the Buckeyes open to another concern: While Conley, for
example, might be able to smother Renfrow or Cain in the slot, what if Williams
gets loose in a mismatch on the outside?

Then again, that worry runs both ways. What if Ohio State effectively shuts down
the Tigers' downfield passing game; where would that leave the offense?

There's no doubt that both teams feel up for the challenge, even if, as Leggett
suggested, it might take the opening quarter -- if not more -- for each to find
its footing against a premier opponent.

"I like our odds; I like our odds a lot," Hooker said. "I don't doubt any guy on
our team. We're capable of making plays at any moment." Added Williams, "We're
going to do what we're going to do."

Which is how it should be. Given the elite programs and the high stakes at play,
it's only fitting that the Fiesta Bowl might be decided on equal terms: with
strength meeting strength.

"It's going to kind of be like a heavyweight fight," Scott said. "It's going to
be a great matchup to watch."

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Joe Maiorana, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Saban's success traced to James

BYLINE: Daniel Uthman, @DanUthman, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1225 words


Classes were in session at Kent State University in the fall of 1974, which
meant freshman football players had to report to the library for mandatory study
halls. That also meant the football team's graduate assistant coaches had to
report to the library, too, to supervise the freshmen.

One day as they sat watching the team's youngest players do their homework,
those two graduate assistant coaches found themselves reflecting on what they
had learned as Kent State players under head coach Don James.

One of those assistants was former two-time all-Mid-American Conference tight
end Gary Pinkel. The other was a highly respected former Kent State safety named
Nick Saban. And what they discussed in the library that day, a concept ingrained
in them by James, became a mantra that carried Pinkel through 191 career
victories and Saban to five national championships and counting.

"One thing you got from the very beginning with Coach James, you understood the
word 'process'" Pinkel said.

"You know what you're doing on the 15th of January when you get back and you
start school again. What you're doing is you're preparing for that first game,
in September. That day is important, because the process that happens in this
organization that day, and then the next day, will ultimately determine how good
you are in the future."

Saban's immediate future is a Peach Bowl College Football Playoff semifinal
matchup for Alabama against Washington, the school James led to 153 wins, four
Rose Bowl victories and one national championship.

Saban delivered a video message in tribute when James died at 80 in October
2013.

And the messages James imparted on Saban in word and deed in two seasons as his
coach and two as his boss at Kent State -- beginning with the message that got
Saban into coaching in the first place -- shape the methods Saban has employed
ever since.

"He never doubted he would be a good coach," said Carol James, Don James' widow.
"That's why he picked him when he was just out of college. He could always see
his potential.

"He knew that (Nick) studied the game. He knew the game plans, he studied the
opposing team; it wasn't just a kid who went out and played. He really studied
every week who they were playing, and he practiced, executed and did all those
things you have to do to be a good player but also to be a good coach."

Saban regularly cites James' beliefs when explaining what he values in the
Crimson Tide. Those beliefs had their roots in the football-rich region of
northeast Ohio, where James was raised. But they stretch across the country.
Even to Alabama.

Coaching influences

James was a college assistant coach for 12 years, working under Florida State's
Bill Peterson, Michigan's Fritz Crisler and Colorado's Eddie Crowder. He counted
all as influences. But his time and location in Tallahassee from 1959 to 1965
gave him the opportunity to study Alabama coach Bear Bryant from a distance and
up close.

"He went to coaching clinics that Bear Bryant had where he was a clinician, but
he also went over and visited Bear Bryant at Alabama and picked his brain," said
Mike Lude, who worked with James for 20 years at Kent State and Washington.

"The idea of coaching from a tower for practice was a Bear Bryant influence. And
the fact that he knew you win football games if you have better players than the
other guy. You can't take bad players and coach them so well that you beat great
players."

Saban was not a great player in the NFL prospect sense of the term, but he was a
great player in other ways and, as Lude said, was "tougher than heck."

Saban's competitiveness and inquisitiveness were part of the reason that when he
suffered what essentially was a career-ending knee injury while playing safety
against Northern Illinois on Oct.28, 1972, James moved swiftly to make him a
student coach.

But as Saban neared graduation the next spring, he was ready to move on.

"I never wanted to be a coach," Saban said. "I wanted to be the general manager
of a car dealership, because my dad had a service station and I grew up working
on cars and all that kind of stuff.

"Don James calls me into his office one day and says, 'I want you to be a G.A.
next year.' I said, 'I don't want to be a G.A. I don't want to go to graduate
school. I'm sick of going to school.'

"And he said, 'We have a new secondary coach. I'd like for you to go through
spring practice because you know what we do on the back end and you could
probably be helpful to the guy a little bit as he learns the system.'"

Saban talked to his wife, Terry, who had a year of classes remaining at Kent
State.

"We'd promised our parents that we'd both graduate, and she wanted to graduate
and I wanted her to graduate. So that's the only reason I did it. And I loved
it, and it worked out really, really well.

"I think it was the last conversation I had with my dad, we played Louisville
(the first game the next) year and I would always call him after the game and
tell him how the game went, and I said, 'You know, Dad, I think this is what I
really want to do, I really like this.'

"And he said, 'That's great, I'm glad for you.' Then he died the next week."

'he was on our page'

The next season, Saban became a coordinator for the first time, coaching the
Kent State freshman team's defense while assistant coach Skip Hall ran the
offense. "He took to it, obviously, like a fish in water," Hall said. "I mean,
you could kind of tell he was on our page.

"I think what he learned from the Don James system, just like I did, is that
attention to detail, the hard work, the fundamental and sound coaching, which
was Don James' trademark. I think Nick picked that up at an early age, and I
think he has built on that over the years."

James brought Hall and two other assistants to Washington the next season, and
James' successor at Kent State, Denny Fitzgerald, made Saban a full-time
assistant coach for the first time, putting him in charge of linebackers.
Fifteen years later, Saban became a head coach for the first time, at Toledo.

Since then, the people who knew Saban at Kent State have continued to see James'
touches in Saban's coaching: Lude points to their aptitude for player
evaluation. Hall points to their overt strength, their underrated warmth and the
fact they have a plan and standard for everything. "The thing about Don James'
system that's so similar to the Nick Saban system is that everybody knows what
to expect," Hall said.

Carol James said, "There's not a lot of hugging and kissing on the sideline.
He's business. And Don was like that, too. And I actually see a lot of Don and
Nick in (Washington) coach (Chris) Petersen, too, if you watch him."

Pinkel points to their meticulous organizational genius, their practice of
coaching their assistant coaches and the evaluations and feedback provided
daily.

"A lot of football programs don't have the meticulous organization that he has,
and he learned a lot from Coach James," Pinkel said. "I know that Nick is as
good as anybody who ever was in this business, to make sure the process that he
has in place. He runs the program like everybody's got as good of players like
he does.

"I've been trying to say this the last few years: He will go down as the
greatest college football coach ever. He will, without question. Nobody's ever
done what he's doing, but there's a reason why."

Contributing: George Schroeder

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo John David Mercer, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

Police ask for Alexa's memory of fatal night;
Digital assistant may have record of killing

BYLINE: Elizabeth Weise, @eweise, USATODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 293 words


How much does Alexa remember? Police in Arkansas want to find out.

In what may be a first, they asked Amazon for recordings potentially made by an
Echo device in connection with a murder investigation.

Police in Bentonville, Ark., requested that Amazon provide audio and other
records from an Echo digital assistant in the home of James Andrew Bates after
Victor Collins was found dead in Bates' hot tub last year, The Information
website reported.

The Amazon Echo is an always-on digital assistant that can answer questions,
order items and stream music, among other tasks. It supports Amazon's
voice-recognition program, Alexa, which operates in the cloud.

Bates was charged with killing Collins on Nov. 22, 2015.

The two had been drinking and watching football with two other friends in Bates'
home. One of the friends left, but Collins and another stayed,  the affidavit
for a search warrant said.

The cause of death for Collins was strangulation with drowning as a secondary
cause, according to police. Bates was arrested and charged with the murder and
is out on bail.

In a statement to USA TODAY, Amazon said it will not release customer
information without a valid and binding legal demand properly served on it.

Amazon did give prosecutors information about Bates' account and purchase
history.

The Echo keeps less than 60 seconds of recorded sound in its storage buffer. As
new sound is recorded, the old is erased.

Users need to be aware that all Internet of Things devices might be implicated
in criminal investigations, said Marc Rotenberg, president of EPIC, the
Electronic Privacy Information Center, a non-profit group in Washington.
Devices that retain data will be the targets not only of law enforcement
officials but also criminal hackers," he  said.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Amazon

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

24 HOURS OF CHAOS;
More than 1,400 people pulled from Mediterranean Sea in single day

BYLINE: Jason Pohl

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1817 words


Voices of more than 400 men, women and children -- refugees fleeing chaotic
Middle Eastern and African countries -- pierce the night air as rescue boats
descend on a wooden boat.  Smugglers stuffed people in every inch of space
aboard the 40-foot vessel before shoving it off the coast of Libya and into the
choppy sea.  The screaming starts: "Help!" "Sit down!" "Where's my wife?!"

It's 2 a.m.

This is already the busiest day in weeks for vessels patrolling the rough
turquoise waters of the Mediterranean Sea.

Crew members pull people from rubber rafts and wooden boats, running the risk
the vessels will sink and take down everyone on board.

By sunset Nov. 22, rescuers will have loaded more than 1,400 people from rickety
boats off the coast of Libya into ships bound for Europe. Winter is coming, but
the rescues show no sign of slowing.

These refugees hail from Syria, Libya and Iraq -- war-torn countries that
regularly make international headlines. They also come from Niger, Senegal and
Sierra Leone.

"What people sometimes get wrong is the judgment about motivation, why people
are fleeing," says Susanne Salm-Hain, founder of LifeBoat, a non-profit rescue
organization based in Malta. The group aboard the Minden rescue boat returned
Thanksgiving Day from its last mission of the year -- a few hundred miles south
of the tiny island nation and not far from Benghazi, Libya.

"Their idea is not to go to Europe," she says of the refugees, who spent their
life savings in hopes of reaching a safer country. "Their idea is just to go
anywhere where they can live."

Rescue groups scramble at times to coordinate in the area. Aid organizations
increasingly depend on residents who profit by "harvesting" engines from
smugglers' empty vessels after refugees are rescued. Radar and binoculars are
the primary tools for the rescuers to spot refugees in an area of open sea
roughly the size of Colorado.

Since January, more than 4,600 people have been killed crossing the
Mediterranean to Europe, making 2016 the deadliest year on record, according to
the United Nations refugee agency. The death toll could be higher because of
bodies never found or deaths never reported.

Some days result in no rescues. Other days are relentless.

It's 6 a.m.

Crews have evacuated 430 people from an overcrowded wooden boat and loaded them
onto long-haul ships bound for Italy.

Rescuers aboard the Minden finally try to get some sleep.

Thirty minutes pass.

"Get up!" Tom Pickles orders from the wheelhouse to the galley. The former Army
special operations medic was blown up and shot up during a deployment in Iraq. A
firefighter in Fort Collins, Colo., Pickles is the lead paramedic during this
mission.

"Boat's on us!" he shouts.

A small wooden vessel stuffed with 21 refugees, mainly from countries across
western Africa, floats toward the Minden.

This group is trying to reach the European mainland, like many others who learn
about smuggling operations and pay thousands of dollars to cross the
Mediterranean. It's unclear how many refugees think they'll make the journey on
a rickety raft and how many instead believe a rescue crew will find them
somewhere in international waters.

These people hope to be rescued.

Minden Capt. Christian Brensing, a sun-scarred German rarely seen without a
cigarette, has worked on rescue vessels across the world for 20 years.

"It's totally different to do rescue operations here on the Mediterranean,
because we're talking about boats that are not equipped or in shape to go out in
the conditions -- to stand the weather out there," he says. "We're talking about
boats that are totally overloaded."

One by one, crew members pull the refugees up a collapsible rescue ladder and
guide them to the bow, where they are evaluated for medical needs and given
golden heat blankets.

The small vessel floats away after a crew member douses it with petroleum and
tosses a flare on board, creating a puff of black smoke in the cloudless morning
sky. Rescuers destroy the wooden boats and slash rubber rafts after evacuating
the people, so smugglers can't reuse the vessels.

Sali Baldel, 19, from Senegal is among those rescued that morning, saying he
fled violence across the region.

Fighting was everywhere, he says as the Minden bobs in the early-morning light.
Italy represents opportunity and a chance at stability.

"Today was my day," he says.

It's 7 a.m.

The radio on the captain's bridge announces four more nearby vessels that appear
as white blips on the horizon. The response starts calmly. Then an urgent voice
says, "The rubber raft is sinking."

The Minden's rigid-hulled inflatable boat races ahead, joined by a small vessel
from the Migrant Offshore Aid Station, among the prominent organizations in the
area. A helicopter from a Spanish warship booms overhead, and the Minden shifts
into overdrive.

In the distance, objects bob in the short waves.

Life jackets.

Bodies.

Then come ear-piercing cries for help.

The front chambers of a rubber boat burst, sending people into the water. The
boat takes on water, causing passengers to scramble for their lives. Many have
never seen open water before, and few, if any, know how to swim.

The burst raft is submerged when rescuers arrive. They throw life jackets and
rescue lines. Those on the maneuverable rescue boats zip around the life jackets
and pull people to safety.

One panicked man wraps a life jacket around his neck. Some people wear two or
three vests, none of them correctly, making drowning a possibility.

Once aboard, young men and women stare blankly into the distance, while crew
members check them over and guide them to the bow.

Many are shivering.

Some call out for Jesus.

One African woman repeatedly thanks her rescuers.

There are a few deaths this day, but rescue agencies appear in time to save
dozens.

Smugglers promise a safe voyage, sometimes telling people the lights visible
from shore are lights from the European mainland. In reality, they are offshore
oil facilities nowhere near Italy's coast.

The vessels are overcrowded. Rubber rafts are especially risky. These boats --
about 50 feet long with thin walls and plywood floorboards -- slink along with
the swells, often carrying more than 100 people dangling their legs over the
sides or stuffed in the middle, along with their urine, feces and vomit.

Among the 33 people pulled onto the Minden during 10 chaotic minutes is Musah
Ulmar, 19, who saw a woman fall into the water when the front chamber burst
earlier in the morning.

"She died," he says almost casually, numbed to tragedy and wrapped in a heat
blanket.

Ulmar is from Niger but moved to Libya about a year ago to be with his
girlfriend, he says. The couple were kidnapped, and she was raped and killed by
their captors, he says. Ulmar was sentenced to prison for her death, though he
denies any involvement. He escaped three months ago, learned about a smuggling
operation by word of mouth and boarded the raft around 9 p.m. the previous
night.

"This way is mostly for people like us," he says before being whisked to another
rescue vessel and loaded on a long-haul ship bound for Italy.

It's 11 a.m.

Many rescuers have been working since midnight, but the day is young.

While crew members aboard the Minden help transport the refugees to a larger
vessel, a small wooden boat carrying three men motors to the ship. Known as
"engine fishers," the men regularly patrol waters off the Libyan coast and take
the outboard motors of vessels that carried refugees.

Engine fishers are sometimes the front lines in alerting rescue groups to
refugee-loaded vessels. Some want to harvest the motors to make a profit back on
land. Many enjoy working with aid workers. They alert rescuers of boats that
radar might not detect, then lurk nearby until the evacuation is over. Then they
move in and detach the engine.

"They come to make sure that we find them," Brensing says. "They seem to be
interested in safe transfers to other vessels. They seem to be interested in
getting everybody safe out of the coastal waters.

"Maybe they are connected to the smugglers. Maybe they earn their money with
smuggling. We don't know, but they are helping. I won't judge that."

Engine fishers alert the Minden to another rubber boat. This next rescue is
calmer -- the rubber boat holding about 150 people isn't sinking.

The crew ensures that everyone has life jackets and is helped onto larger boats
bound for Europe. The crew maintains calm in the hours waiting for the long-haul
ships to arrive.

Loading people onto midsize boats, then reloading them onto larger ships can be
dangerous -- there are more risks of people falling into the sea. Crews on
midsize boats outfit the people with life jackets and wait.

An Italian coast guard ship inches across the horizon. Moments later, the
refugees step through the side door at water level, entering the larger vessel
bound for the mainland.

It's 2 p.m.

Radio chatter has quieted down, and the intensity of 12 hours of missions
settles into a few moments of rest.

More than 1,400 refugees are bound for Italy.

The Minden's crew is exhausted after aiding in hundreds of rescues, feeling a
sense of accomplishment.

But frustration will soon surface.

It's 4 p.m.

The satellite phone on the bridge rings. The Rome-based Maritime Rescue
Coordination Center is calling to say a wooden boat carrying more than 40 people
is inching toward the safe zone 12 miles from shore, a boundary marked with a
skull and crossbones on the Minden's computer screen.

The Minden races at 15 knots toward the area to intercept the boat.

A thick black haze belches from the smokestack, and the engine churns harder
than at any time in the past two weeks.

That wooden boat stands little chance if it's not located before dark.

It's 6 p.m.

There's no wooden boat in sight; no blip on radar screens. Brensing's next
conversation with the Rome group grows heated when he learns the coordinates
given to the Minden were never the location of an actual sighting. Instead, the
latitude and longitude were an approximate spot based on calculations made
hundreds of miles away that failed to include real-time, on-the-water
conditions.

He hangs up and throws the phone onto the ledge above the computer screen.

"It could be anywhere," Brensing says repeatedly about the boat.

He wonders whether he could have pinpointed the vessel if he had better
information earlier. All he can do is guide the ship in a grid pattern and
coordinate with a Spanish warship during a night-long search effort.

North, west, north, east, north, west ...

It's 2 a.m.

Spotlights shine through the fog as the crew awaits orders.

The radio crackles to life. The Spanish warship needs help on its portion of the
grid search that has dragged on for eight hours and is supposed to last at least
until sunrise.

The crews know the chance of locating the 40-some people on the wooden boat
dwindle with each hour at sea.

The rescuers wrestle with a similar plight as the refugees: What alternative is
there?

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jason Pohl, USA TODAY Network

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

Actress Debbie Reynolds, unsinkable to the end;
Oscar nominee, 84, set a standard that lasted 6 decades

BYLINE: Susan Wloszczyna, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 671 words


Perhaps the heartbreak was just too much.

Debbie Reynolds, the ever-buoyant entertainer who managed to stay in the
spotlight for more than six decades, died Wednesday at age 84 after being rushed
to the hospital a day after her daughter, Carrie Fisher, died from a massive
heart attack.

Until the end, Reynolds proved to be nearly as resilient as her spunky Titanic
survivor in The Unsinkable Molly Brown, the 1964 musical biopic that was the
source of her only Oscar nomination.

The insidious Darth Vader might have been Princess Leia's father in the first
Star Wars trilogy. But in real life, her mother was the indomitable Reynolds,
who set a high standard for unwavering perseverance early on in her Hollywood
career.

Leia's alter ego, Fisher, was a chip off the old tough cookie. Reynolds'
daughter had encountered her own share of ups and downs as a successful actress
and respected screenwriter and raconteur. Fisher's struggles with manic
depression and substance abuse led to some rocky times with her mom when she was
in her 20s. But they would end up living a mere driveway away from each other in
Beverly Hills along with Fisher's daughter, Billie Lourd.

In January 2015, Reynolds was presented with a Life Achievement trophy at the
Screen Actors Guild Awards by Fisher, but that November, she had to bow out of
attending the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences' Governors Awards
ceremony, where she was being honored with the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award.
The Academy's statement said she would "regretfully be unable to attend" because
of an "unexpectedly long recovery from a recent surgery."

Reynolds also issued a statement: "I'm heartbroken that I'm unable to be there
in person to receive this extraordinary honor you have given me. So you could
see how unbelievably happy you have made me. If joy could be weighed, this would
be the most sizable rejoicing one could feel, especially if that one is me."

But Reynolds kept in touch with fans via social media, even keeping her
daughter's fans updated on her condition after Fisher's hospitalization Friday.

As Fisher told The New York Times in a joint interview with Reynolds in 2010:
"If anything, my mother taught me how to sur-thrive. That's my word for it. She
would go through these amazingly difficult things, and the message was clear:
Doing the impossible is possible. It's just not fun."

Through the years, Reynolds became embroiled in a few choice star wars of her
own. As a 19-year-old novice dancer, she tapped until her feet were bloodied
during the Good Morning number in the 1952 classic Singin' in the Rain. Yet she
still kept pace with her demanding co-star and co-director Gene Kelly. The story
goes that Fred Astaire found her at the studio, crying under a piano after Kelly
verbally abused her, and offered to give her some pointers.

The perpetually upbeat and button-cute Texas native who won her first studio
contract at age 16 after being crowned Miss Burbank would prove to be a survivor
in her private moments, too. She rose above the heartbreak of having her crooner
husband of three years, Eddie Fisher, father of her two young children
(including son Todd), scandalously stolen by her friend Elizabeth Taylor in
1958.

But Debbie being Debbie, she and Taylor would reconcile seven years later.

Through the years, Reynolds kept reinventing herself. She had a short-lived TV
sitcom in 1969, titled both The Debbie Reynolds Show and Debbie.  She later
triumphed in her Broadway debut and was nominated for a Tony Award for a revival
of the old-fashioned musical Irene in 1973.

Retirement was never an option for this Depression-era kid who built herself
into an adored celebrity.

As she told the website Rotten Tomatoes in 2009:

"I tour all year, 42 weeks a year, so it's hard for me to remember every place I
play. Myrtle Beach, Florida; Oklahoma; Denver. That's my business, show
business. So I'll be like Irving Berlin: There's no business like show
business.' And I'll just stay in it till they stuff me like Trigger, when I drop
dead."

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Kevin Mazur, WireImage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                FA CHASE EDITION

Hall case: Guerrero had pop, pizazz;
Slugger's entry to Cooperstown may have to wait

BYLINE: Jorge L. Ortiz, @jorgelortiz, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 680 words


When Vladimir Guerrero suffered a foot fracture that delayed the start of his
rookie season in 1997, his manager, Felipe Alou of the Montreal Expos, lamented
that the injury would deprive National League fans from seeing the emerging
talent.

Guerrero indeed proved a sight to behold.

Through much of a 16-year career spent mostly with the Expos and the Los Angeles
Angels, Guerrero was the epitome of the player worth the price of admission all
by himself, displaying a baton twirler's skill with the bat, titanic power,
outstanding running speed and a rocket arm. Half the fun of watching Guerrero
play was the expectation he'd do something never seen before, like the time he
slapped a pitch that bounced in front of the plate for a single.

But despite his wild-swinging ways, he was far from a novelty act. Even as knee
woes and age sapped Guerrero's mobility in his later years, he remained one of
the game's most fearsome and accomplished hitters, batting .300 with 29 home
runs and 115 RBI in his penultimate season.

The case for: Guerrero's combination of a .318 career average and 449 home runs
is matched by  five other players, all of them immortal: Babe Ruth, Stan Musial,
Lou Gehrig, Ted Williams and Jimmie Foxx. None of them comes close to Guerrero's
181  steals, an indication of the breadth of his game. In 2002, he fell a home
run short of the 40-40 mark, and he twice achieved the 30-30 standard.

Between 1998 and 2007, Guerrero never batted below .307 or had an
on-base-plus-slugging percentage lower than .934. His lifetime OPS of .931 would
rank 18th among current Baseball Hall of Famers, three points ahead of Hank
Aaron.

Though underpublicized as a result of playing half of his career in Montreal and
refusing to speak to the news media in English, the Dominican-born outfielder
made nine All-Star teams, was named American League MVP in 2004 -- his first
season with the Angels -- and finished in the top four of the voting three other
times. He also won eight Silver Slugger awards and drove in at least 100 runs 10
times.

The case against: A risk-taking outfielder who liked to show off his potent arm,
Guerrero made an inordinate number of errors, reaching double digits six years
in a row and leading the league's right fielders in that department nine times.
During his final three seasons he was mostly a DH. Guerrero also was an
indiscriminate baserunner, succeeding on 66% of his steal attempts.

Though he helped the Angels win the AL West crown in five of his six years in
Anaheim, Guerrero lacks shiny October credentials that could boost his case. He
had two home runs and a .664 OPS in 44 postseason games.

Look-alikes: Hall of Famers Jim Rice, Willie Stargell, Billy Williams and Duke
Snider come up in Baseball-Reference.com's 10-name ranking of similar offensive
players, and the list includes future shoo-in Miguel Cabrera and current top
candidate Jeff Bagwell. Guerrero's 209 score in Bill James' Hall of Fame monitor
puts him well above the 130 threshold for virtual locks. However, he falls short
by a surprising amount in Jay Jaffe's JAWS gauge, which sets a relative
threshold for election at 58.1 points for right fielders. Guerrero checks in
21st overall at 50.2.

X factors: Few players evoked so much enjoyment watching them perform as
Guerrero, who clearly passes the eye test for Hall of Fame talent. He also has
the traditional stats on his side, especially the rare pairing of power and
supreme hitting skill. Those elements supersede so-so peripheral stats in other
aspects of his game. Guerrero also was known as a likable if quiet teammate,
especially beloved by players who shared his Latino roots.

Consensus: This is Guerrero's first year on the ballot as he seeks to become the
first Dominican position player to enter the Hall, where he would join
countrymen Juan Marichal and Pedro Martinez, both pitchers. Guerrero might not
be accorded the special honor of first-ballot induction, what with Bagwell, Tim
Raines and Trevor Hoffman on the doorstep this year, but he'll likely be
welcomed into Cooperstown in the next few tries.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo 2003 photo by RICHARD PATTERSON, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

We have a plan to reduce lead now

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 372 words


This statement was provided by the Environmental Protection Agency.

Protecting all Americans from exposure to lead is a top priority for EPA. While
EPA's Lead and Copper Rule  has resulted in substantial reductions of lead and
copper in drinking water, we are taking steps to strengthen and modernize the
rule, which is now 25 years old.

In October  we released a White Paper on the Lead and Copper Rule Revisions that
provides examples of regulatory provisions EPA is evaluating in order to improve
public health protection. Topics include: lead service line replacement,
improving optimal corrosion control treatment requirements, the potential role
of point-of-use filters, consideration of a health-based benchmark for
household-level interventions, clarifications or strengthening of tap sampling
requirements, increased transparency and enhanced public education. We expect to
propose revisions in 2017.

Revising the Lead and Copper Rule is part of our broader work to improve the
safety and reliability of drinking water in America. In November  we released a
Drinking Water Action Plan which maps out a set of concrete, practical actions
that together have the potential to dramatically strengthen drinking water
safety.

This includes establishing a 21st  century electronic reporting system that
gives regulators and the public prompt and accurate information on drinking
water quality, advancing equity in drinking water protection, and further
reducing lead risks through enhanced oversight.

In tandem with those two efforts, EPA has greatly intensified our work with
state drinking water programs to focus on implementation of the current Lead and
Copper Rule, including meeting with every state to make sure they're addressing
any high lead levels and fully implementing the current rule.

We've also provided recommendations regarding optimal corrosion control
treatment, source water changes, sampling and monitoring, and we've increased
the number of  program reviews and trainings  nationwide.

EPA understands there is no single answer or simple solution for reducing lead
in drinking water, but the agency is committed to taking steps now to enable
future actions to further strengthen the safety of America's drinking water.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Rethinking immigration one case at a time

BYLINE: Thomas G. Snow

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 784 words


I am an immigration judge. People I meet seem pretty interested in that,
especially lately. But they often don't seem to understand what we do. I've
found that the best way to explain the job is to describe some of the decisions
we make.

People come before an immigration judge because the U.S. government, via the
Department of Homeland Security, is trying to deport them. And there is usually
little dispute that they are deportable. They've come across the border
illegally, or they've overstayed their visas, or they have legal status in the
U.S. but have committed crimes that make them deportable. So we don't have to
spend much time deciding whether someone is here legally or not.

What we do spend time on is whether the person before us has a legal basis to
remain in our country. For example, someone facing physical abuse (or worse)
back home, depending on the reasons for such persecution, may be eligible for
asylum and can stay. A person with U.S. citizen children -- who has been here at
least 10 years and has good moral character, and whose kids would suffer
"exceptional and extremely unusual hardship" if the parent is deported -- can
stay. Even someone who has committed a violent or other serious crime in the
U.S., if he can show he would be tortured by public officials in his home
country, can stay.

Vexing questions

Deciding such cases doesn't sound so difficult. But it often is.

Take the example of someone seeking asylum. One of our most vexing challenges is
assessing credibility -- trying to figure out whether the person is telling the
truth about what he fears and why. Sometimes, there is not much to go on other
than the person's own testimony. Yet this is not a decision we want to get
wrong. I've probably been fooled and granted asylum to some who didn't deserve
it. I hope and pray I have not denied asylum to some who did.

Cases involving a father or mother with a couple of U.S. citizen kids are among
our most gut-wrenching. That "exceptional and extremely unusual hardship"
standard can be difficult to meet. The law requires more than the sort of
emotional and financial hardship that normally exists in deportation cases. So
we sometimes have to order fine people, who have been here a long time, deported
to places they barely remember -- in decisions often delivered orally, in court,
in front of sobbing kids and desperate spouses.

And there are those few whose only available claim, because of their serious
convictions, is that they will be tortured. They are the least sympathetic of
those who appear before us. Drug traffickers. Sex offenders. Thieves. They seek
protection pursuant to our obligations under the United Nations Convention
Against Torture. When on very rare occasions the evidence compels it, I grant
them relief. To our nation's great moral credit, we don't send people to places
where they will be tortured -- no matter how repugnant their crimes.

Solitary decision

Some of those the government is trying to deport are detained. Decisions by
immigration judges on whether to grant them bond have significant consequences
of their own. A detained person might have only weeks, not months or years, to
prepare his case. And he could be held several hours away from his lawyer,
assuming he is fortunate enough to have one. At the same time, no immigration
judge wants to conclude someone is neither a danger nor a flight risk, grant
release, and then be proved wrong.

Immigration judges make these decisions alone. Many are made following
distraught or shame-filled testimony covering almost unimaginable acts of
inhumanity. And we make them several times a day, day after day, year after
year.

No outside influence

We take every decision we make very seriously. We do our best to be fair to
every person who comes before us. We judge each case on its own merits, no
matter how many times we've seen similar fact patterns before.

We're not policymakers. We're not legislators. We are judges. Although we are
employees of the Department of Justice, who act under the delegated authority of
the attorney general, no one tells us how to decide a case. I've been an
immigration judge for more than 11 years, and nobody has ever tried to influence
a single one of my thousands of decisions.

And finally, because we are judges, we do our best to follow the law and apply
it impartially to the people who appear before us. I know I do so, even when it
breaks my heart.

Thomas G. Snow is an immigration judge. He was acting director of the Executive
Office for Immigration Review, responsible for the entire U.S. Immigration Court
system, from 2009 to 2011. The views expressed in this piece do not necessarily
reflect those of EOIR or the Department of Justice.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo SANDY HUFFAKER, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

CRITIC'S CORNER

BYLINE: Robert Bianco, @BiancoRobert, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 211 words


Gleason Amazon

As is usual for this time of year, there aren't many worthy new programs on
tonight besides football -- and this acclaimed documentary about New Orleans
Saints safety Steve Gleason. Diagnosed with ALS at age 34 and given just a few
years to live, Gleason set out to live those years to the fullest, as you'll see
in this film, shot over a four-year period.

American Housewife ABC, 9 ET/PT

This comedy starring Katy Mixon as an out-of-place suburban housewife had a
fairly terrible pilot -- so terrible, you may have stopped watching. But over
the course of the fall, it did improve, as in  this funny outing built around
her determination to get her daughter invited to a party. The show still isn't
perfect: There are too many cheap fat jokes, and the kids could use a few more
moments where they display more than their one assigned comedy trait. But Mixon
is reliably great, and the show built around her is at least getting better.

Speechless ABC, 9:30 ET/PT

No such improvements were needed at Speechless, which has proven to be the the
best -- and best-cast -- new broadcast series of the fall. This week, the show
repeats its excellent second episode as Maya fusses over JJ while Jimmy teaches
Ray the difference between being an "idiot" and a "jerk."

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Kelsey McNeal, ABC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

BEYOND THE NUMBERS;
THE NEWS BEHIND THE RATINGS

BYLINE: Gary Levin

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 115 words


REALITY OPENERS

A sneak preview of NBC game show The Wall claimed a decent 6.5 million same-day
viewers Monday, while CBS' Undercover Boss returned Wednesday with 5.9 million.

HOLIDAY SPECIALS

NBC's America's Got Talent holiday special and CBS' Oprah Winfrey interview with
Michelle Obama each claimed a solid 9.5 million viewers Monday. NBC's Tony
Bennett 90th birthday special drew 6.7 million Tuesday. And BBC America's annual
Doctor Who Christmas Special averaged 448,000 Sunday.

FINALE TIME

Lifetime's Project Runway wrapped up its 15th season Thursday with 1.8 million
viewers, while Fox's Scream Queens (1.4 million Tuesday) and USA's Falling Water
(470,000 Thursday) had smaller sendoffs.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Michael Becker, Fox

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

5 Books we loved reading in 2016

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 245 words


These  fiction and non-fiction titles were big hits with USA TODAY's reviewers

1  Commonwealth

by Ann Patchett (Harper, fiction)

Sharp and funny, Patchett's

entertaining, decades-spanning novel encapsulates the fallout from divorce on
six kids in a blended family; it's the ultimate Boomer book.

2 When Breath Becomes Air

by Paul Kalanithi

(Random House, non-fiction)

A young neurosurgeon receives

a terminal cancer diagnosis, and in his remaining days explores what makes life
meaningful in this devastating, unforgettable memoir.

3  Swing Time

by Zadie Smith

(Penguin Press, fiction)

In her reliably beautiful prose, Smith explores the friendship between two black
women

growing up in Northeast London whose off-and-on connection powerfully captures
the complex intersections of race, class and popular media.

4  Born to Run

by Bruce Springsteen

(Simon & Schuster, non-fiction)

Analytical but not self-absorbed, the rocker's memoir is a rich and colorful
chronicle of a legendary life, defined (and ultimately saved) by his complicated

relationships.

5  End of Watch

by Stephen King (Scribner, fiction)

The gripping conclusion to the superb Mr. Mercedes trilogy, which introduced a
couple of unforgettable characters -- namely P.I. Bill Hodges and

serial-killing nut job Brady

Hartsfield -- proves that the Master of Horror has redefined the detective
story, too.

Contributing reviewers: Jocelyn McClurg, Matt McCarthy, Eliot Schrefer, Matt
Damsker, Brian Truitt, Gene Seymour, Mark Athitakis

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Kevin Mazur, Getty Images for The Rainforest Fund

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Key injuries

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 194 words


DOUBTFUL

QUESTIONABLE

OUT

Q

RB Lamar Miller, Texans

With a playoff berth secure, there's no reason for the Texans to push him if his
sprained ankle has him less than 100%.

O

WR A.J. Green, Bengals

Never made it back from a Week 11 hamstring injury. With TE Tyler Eifert also
out, Brandon LaFell is the No. 1 option.

Q

RB Jay Ajayi, Dolphins

Ailing shoulder the result of another heavy workload last weekend. He'll play
vs. the Patriots, but expect fewer touches.

O

RB Charles Sims, Buccaneers

Chest injury is the latest ailment in a lost season. With Doug Martin inactive,
Jacquizz Rodgers will be used frequently.

O

QB Derek Carr, Raiders

Broken leg brought a bitter end to a fine season. Backup Matt McGloin and his
receivers should be avoided at Denver.

Q

RB Melvin Gordon, Chargers

Didn't use a brace on his injured knee at practice. Still a game-time decision,
but with no Kenneth Farrow, he's needed.

O

RB Carlos Hyde, 49ers

Placed on injured reserve with sprained knee, so Shaun Draughn likely will start
and get most of the work vs. Seattle.

Q

RB Rob Kelley, Redskins

Used sparingly Saturday after tweaking a knee. MRI showed no damage, so expect
him to play in must-win vs. Giants.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

IN BRIEF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 377 words


Winter storm will bury New England in snow

A powerful winter storm will unleash heavy, wet snow and howling winds across
portions of New England from late Thursday through midday Friday, and blizzard
conditions are possible in some areas.

Much of New Hampshire, Vermont and Maine should see a foot of snow. Some spots
can expect nearly 2 feet, the National Weather Service said. "This looks to be a
high-impact storm with power outages and significant drifting issues likely,"
the weather service warned.

The storm will cause "extensive travel disruptions" Thursday and Friday,
AccuWeather said.

Lighter amounts of snow are forecast for western and central portions of
Massachusetts and Connecticut.--Doyle Rice

suspected accomplice in Berlin attack detained

German police on Wednesday detained a suspected accomplice in connection with
the truck attack on a Christmas market in Berlin. The man is a 40-year-old
Tunisian national. Federal prosecutors did not name him.

Anis Amri, 24, the main suspect in the attack that killed 12 people and injured
dozens more Dec. 19 in central Berlin, was shot dead by Italian police, ending a
Europe-wide manhunt for him that lasted four days.

Amri, also a Tunisian national, was a failed asylum seeker who was  to be
deported from Germany but was set free after a paperwork delay.

Prosecutors said in a statement Wednesday that the suspected accomplice was
initially questioned because his phone number was found in Amri's phone, and
further investigations revealed he might have been involved in the attack.

Prosecutors have until Thursday evening to determine whether the case against
the suspected accomplice is strong enough for them to seek a formal arrest
warrant.--Kim Hjelmgaard

American hiker falls to death near Matterhorn

A holiday hike against a backdrop of some of the world's most breathtaking
geography turned into tragedy for an American who tumbled to his death on steep
and slippery terrain in the shadow of the Swiss Alps' iconic Matterhorn.

The body of a 52-year-old man, whose name was not immediately released, was
removed via helicopter two days after Monday's fall, police in the southern
Valais region said in a report. The report said the man was hiking alone when he
fell for "unexplained reasons."--John Bacon

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Antonio Lacerda, EFE, via European Pressphoto Agency

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

FIRST WORD

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 226 words


There is always 2 sides to every story. I would never insult an opponent's
family regardless of how much a player insulted me repeatedly"

Mavericks big man Salah Mejri tweeted Wednesday after Rockets forward Trevor
Ariza said Mejri made a derogatory comment to him about his wife and children
during Tuesday's game.  After the game, Ariza waited outside the Mavericks
locker room for Mejri. Security made sure they didn't interact.

magic number

11

Jersey number of the Rockets' Yao Ming. The team announced Wednesday that the
number would be retired Feb. 3.

tweets of the day

@TDLockett12

but I want you to all know that I'm thankful for the texts, calls, Text though I
been sleep! Also prayers up for @derekcarrqb and Mariota!!

Seahawks receiver Tyler Lockett, thanking fans for support after surgery on his
right leg and referencing injured Raiders quarterback Derek Carr and injured
Titans quarterback Marcus Mariota.

@PatMcAfeeShow

8 years.. a lot of records broken.. a lot of wins.. a lot of points.. & a whole
(expletive) ton of respect.. Happy 44th Birthday @adamvinatieri

Colts punter Pat McAfee to teammate and kicker Adam Vinatieri.

last word

"I'M ABOUT 89% SURE."

Ravens wide receiver Steve Smith Sr. to reporters Wednesday, saying Sunday
"probably" would be his final game, according to "The Baltimore Sun." His
uniform number is 89.

Edited by Thomas O'Toole

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Mejri by Craig Mitchelldyer, USA TODAY Sports

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SPORTSLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

Debbie Reynolds 'now with Carrie';
Daughter's death too much, son says

BYLINE: Andrea Mandell, @andreamandell, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 91 words


Actress Debbie Reynolds died Wednesday after being rushed to a hospital, her son
told the Associated Press. She was 84.

"She's now with Carrie, and we're all heartbroken," Reynolds' son, Todd Fisher,
said from Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, where his mother was taken Wednesday.

He said the stress of his sister Carrie Fisher's death "was too much" for
Reynolds.

It's been a tragic week for an iconic Hollywood family. Reynolds lost her
daughter Tuesday. Fisher died in Los Angeles days after suffering a heart
attack. She was 60.

See Life for appreciation


LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Kevin Mazur

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

States fail to protect newborns;
Federal standards on disease screening not met, GAO report says

BYLINE: Ellen Gabler, Milwaukee Journal Sentinel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 1056 words


Most states have not met federal benchmarks to screen newborns in a timely
manner for serious yet treatable genetic disorders, according to a report
released by the U.S. Government Accountability Office.

Although progress has been made, no states met a goal to have 95% of results
reported to pediatricians within five days of birth for babies with the most
time-sensitive conditions. No states had 95% of samples reach their lab within
24 hours of collection.

As part of a bill signed by President Obama in 2014, the report was required in
response to a Milwaukee Journal Sentinel investigation that found infants have
died and suffered permanent disabilities because of screening delays by
hospitals and state labs. The investigation was triggered by a Wisconsin baby
who nearly died and was left brain damaged because of a delayed screening in
2012.

The bill authorized nearly $20 million in spending for programs that support the
country's state-run newborn screening system. The GAO is an independent,
nonpartisan agency that works for Congress to investigate how the federal
government spends taxpayer dollars.

Late samples

Nearly every baby in the country is tested for genetic disorders shortly after
birth. Blood is collected on a card that is sent to state public health labs for
testing. In 2013, the Journal Sentinel found that thousands of hospitals sent
babies' blood samples late to state labs, more than half of which were closed on
weekends. In Colorado, a baby with a treatable disorder died before his newborn
screening test was completed because the state lab was closed over the weekend.

Though the GAO  highlighted many changes states  made to improve timeliness, the
agency said its analysis indicates "substantial work remains for the majority of
states to achieve the recommended benchmark by 2017."

The benchmark was set by a federal advisory committee that advises the U.S.
secretary of Health and Human Services. In 2015, the committee set goals for
three stages of newborn screening and said states should have at least 95% of
babies' blood samples meet these marks:

Birth to collection: A baby's blood should be collected within 48 hours of
birth.

Collection to arrival at lab: The blood sample should arrive at the lab within
24 hours of collection.

Lab arrival to reporting results: Results for the most time-sensitive conditions
should be reported to doctors within five days of birth, and all conditions
should be reported within seven days of birth.

The GAO did its analysis by reviewing data collected by the Association of
Public Health Laboratories, which represents state labs across the country and
has received about $9 million in federal grants to help states improve newborn
screening. One of the government-funded programs is a data repository to better
track states' progress.

The GAO reported 37 states and Puerto Rico had submitted data, so the agency
could not assess the entire country. The Journal Sentinel had the same problem
with its investigation, as only 31 states initially released newborn screening
data. Participation in the data repository is voluntary, although the lab
association says it hopes all states will join by April. The following had not
submitted data: Connecticut, District of Columbia, Guam, Idaho, Kansas,
Kentucky, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Mississippi, Montana, Nevada,
Oklahoma, Utah and West Virginia.

Progress and barriers

The GAO listed several challenges states face to improve timeliness, many of
which were identified by the Journal Sentinel in 2013: limited lab hours, staff
turnover, nursing protocol, limited courier availability, lack of feedback to
hospitals on performance and relying on the mail to communicate results.

Dozens of states and thousands of hospitals throughout the country significantly
changed how they approach newborn screening. They opened labs on weekends,
required couriers for rural areas and provided hospitals with monthly
performance reports. The changes weren't enough to meet the benchmarks laid out
by the federal advisory committee.

"We are making progress, but we are certainly not where we want to be, " said
Cynthia Pellegrini, senior vice president of public policy and government
affairs for the national March of Dimes, which advocates for newborn screening.
"Even though this system looks relatively straightforward on the surface, once
you start digging into it, it becomes unexpectedly complex."

The Association of Public Health Laboratories said it works with state lab
officials to make improvements and doesn't think enough time has passed to
evaluate states' progress.

Some states have met individual goals: In 2015, 10 out of 35 states had 95% of
blood samples collected within 48 hours of birth.

It is unclear which states have made progress because data submitted in the
repository are not public. In response to the Journal Sentinel's investigation,
some states began posting hospitals' performance online. The information is not
always easy to find or kept up to date. Many states keep the numbers secret,
leaving parents in the dark over newborn screening performance that could affect
their baby.

The lab association said keeping data private provides incentive to participate.

"Bottom line: If we revealed state data, they wouldn't contribute," according to
Jelili Ojodu, director of newborn screening and genetics for the lab
association.

Sen. Tammy Baldwin, D-Wis., who supported the newborn screening bill in 2014, is
a member of a Senate committee that received the GAO report.

"This new report shows that we still have more work to do," Baldwin said in a
statement. "I stand ready to continue my work to ensure that critical newborn
screenings are completed quickly and accurately and to improve consistency in
newborn testing across the country."

The GAO noted that although newborn screening has largely been the
responsibility of state health departments, the federal government plays an
influential role in providing grants, and the federal advisory committee was
charted to recommend improvements to states and provide advice to the secretary
of Health and Human Services.

A Journal Sentinel investigation this month revealed that newborn screening lab
policies and protocols vary widely from state to state, and many states ignore
scientific advances. As a result,  children can suffer catastrophic harm.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Ford to unveil new version of self-driving car;
Automaker will lift the curtain on upgraded Ford Fusion Hybrid sedan at CES next
week

BYLINE: Brent Snavely, Detroit Free Press

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 580 words


Ford will debut an upgraded version of its self-driving Ford Fusion Hybrid sedan
next week in Las Vegas at the Consumer Electronics Show, the giant trade
exposition for the electronics industry.

Increasingly, CES has become a showcase for automakers wanting to unveil their
latest in self-driving car technology as well as infortainment systems and other
automotive digital offerings.

Ford's new version of its self-driving system is equipped with more advanced
sensors, more computing power and proprietary software developed by the
Dearborn, Mich., automaker that helps the car think for itself.

The automaker's second-generation self-driving prototype has a brain located in
the trunk that processes data collected by a host of high-tech sensors that can
see the road.

There, the equivalent of several high-end computers generate one terabyte of
data an hour. Ford says that's more than the average person would use in mobile
phone data in 45 years. Those computers process data gathered by the sensors
with a software system Ford has developed in-house.

"It's been three years since we hit the streets with our first Fusion Hybrid
autonomous research vehicle, and this latest version takes everything we learned
and builds on it," according to a blog post from Chris Brewer, Ford's chief
engineer of autonomous-vehicle development, posted on Medium.

Ford is among a host of automakers investing heavily in the development of
self-driving vehicles in an industry movement that has the potential of
revolutionizing how people get around every day.

Earlier this month, General Motors said it plans to begin testing a fleet of
autonomous Chevrolet Bolts on public roads around metro Detroit and will produce
them at the Orion Assembly plant in Oakland County.

Also, Fiat Chrysler Automobiles delivered 100 uniquely outfitted Chrysler
Pacifica Hybrid minivans to Waymo -- previously Google's Self-Driving Car
Project -- so that the tech giant can outfit the minivans with its self-driving
technology. One of them is expected to make its debut at CES.

Ford said in August it would develop a fully autonomous car that it will begin
selling in 2021. Unlike some automakers, who view the development of
self-driving cars as a multistep evolutionary process, Ford said it believes the
industry must make the leap all at once.

Brewer said Ford's goal is to develop a fully autonomous car that does not
require the driver to operate the vehicle.

"Building a car that will not be controlled by a human driver is completely
different from designing a conventional vehicle," Brewer said in a blog post.

Ford developed its first 10 self-driving Ford Fusions based on the 2013 version
of the hybrid sedan. Now, Ford has finished building a test fleet of 30
self-driving Ford Fusion sedans and says it will triple that fleet to 90 by the
end of 2017.

Brewer said the new version of the Fusion Hybrid test vehicle includes:

Two hockey-puck-sized LiDAR sensors, each generating millions of beams, jutting
from the car's front pillars, providing a 360-degree view.

Three cameras mounted on two racks on the roof.

A forward-facing camera mounted under the windshield that works to identify
objects and read traffic lights on the road.

Short- and long-range radar sensors -- adept at seeing through rain, fog and
heavy snow and at helping to determine how an object is moving relative to the
car.

A second, independent power converter connected to the Fusion Hybrid's battery
added to supplement the computing power.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Top 10 business stories of 2016

BYLINE: Paul Davidson and Kevin McCoy USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1305 words


When it came to dominating the headlines, a presidential election and corporate
scandals garnered the most interest during 2016. Although the year had its share
of mergers, acquisitions, new regulations and the usual corporate winners and
losers, it will probably be best remembered for the prospect of government
policy changes that could deeply affect Americans for years. Here is our list of
the year's biggest stories.

1 Donald Trump  elected president

New presidents always portend massive changes. But the election of Trump, with
his promises to upend Washington and roll back regulations, could shake business
and economic establishments to their foundations. While he has hinted at keeping
some popular provisions of Obamacare, Trump will be politically pressured to
repeal much of the health care law that mandated universal coverage. Having
promised to bring jobs back to Rust Belt states, Trump is likely to renegotiate
trade deals and possibly even raise tariffs, a move that could trigger global
disputes. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted after the national financial crisis to
lower excessive risk-taking by banks, could be under assault as lobbyists push
for easing its restrictions. Trump has professed a desire to maintain the
current low-interest-rate policy.

2 Brexit

In late June, the United Kingdom defied polling forecasts and voted to leave the
European Union, setting off reverberations around the globe. U.S. stocks fell 5%
as fears spread of disrupted trade relationships with Europe and of other
countries that could follow the U.K.'s lead. Yet the market recovered within
days as investors realized the immediate effects on American businesses were
limited. There were even some winners among U.S. banks and tech firms that may
have gained from a shift in investment from the U.K. But the economic fallout
won't really be clear until the U.K. renegotiates trade deals with European
countries before it leaves the EU in 2019.

3 The Dow closes  in on 20,000

Wall Street stumbled into 2016, with stocks suffering their worst-ever first
week of trading. But the gloom gave way to bullish optimism, especially after
the presidential election when the "Trump rally" put the 120-year-old Dow Jones
industrial average on a track for a "Dow 20,000" milestone, racking up more than
25 record highs in 2016  along the way. The stock rebound occurred despite the
Federal Reserve's decision to hike short-term interest rates for the first time
in 2016  at its December meeting -- when the central bank also let investors
know it expects three more rate increases in 2017.

4 Prescription drug prices bring controversy

The rising cost of prescription drug prices captured headlines, generated rising
criticism and sparked investigations. At center stage was Turing Pharmaceuticals
CEO Martin Shkreli's decision to impose a more than 5,000% price spike of a drug
used to treat a parasitic illness suffered by AIDS patients. Summoned to appear
before a congressional committee in February, he went silent, invoking his Fifth
Amendment right to avoid testifying against himself. But he unloaded after the
hearing, calling members of Congress "imbeciles" in a tweet. Turing wasn't the
only drugmaker taking fire. Health care providers, patients and others
criticized Mylan for a series of increases that raised the price for a two-pack
of EpiPens, a potentially life-saving injection for allergy sufferers, to $600,
up from about $100 in 2009. By year's end, Mylan had introduced a generic
version of the medication for $300 per two-pack. All of these events drew fire
from a Senate committee report in December that warned "staggering" increases in
the cost of some prescription drugs threaten the health of patients and "the
economic stability of American households."

5 Wells Fargo scandal

In September, the San Francisco-based bank agreed to a $185 million settlement
with federal regulators after an investigation showed Wells Fargo had secretly
opened millions of unauthorized deposit and credit card accounts that weren't
authorized by customers. An estimated 5,300 employees were fired over several
years for pressuring customers to accept the largely unwanted accounts, the bank
acknowledged in its settlement with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau,
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and Los Angeles city and county
legal officials.  Wells Fargo CEO John Stumpf resigned in October, but
investigations of the bank's conduct continued.

6 Unemployment  rate falls

The unemployment rate, which hit 10% in 2009, continued its remarkable descent,
falling to 4.6% in November from 5% early in the year. Many economists believe
that rate, the lowest since August 2007, represents full employment and can't
fall much further without generating a run-up in inflation as wages rise. The
Federal Reserve is coming around to that view and so, at a mid-December meeting,
unexpectedly forecast three interest rate hikes in 2017, throwing cold water on
the post-election market rally. The low jobless rate is already pushing up pay
increases as employers compete for fewer available workers. That smaller pool of
workers is also tempering average monthly job gains, which have fallen from
229,000 in 2015 to 180,000 this year.

7 Oil prices plunge, then rebound

They fell below $27 per barrel in mid-February as a global glut of production
fueled a surplus and concerns about economic growth dealt a blow. The
commodity's sharp descent, dropping nearly in half over a four-month stretch,
contributed to bankruptcies of dozens of U.S. energy companies and thousands of
layoffs. But oil rebounded to more than $50 per barrel after the Organization of
the Petroleum Exporting Countries and certain non-OPEC states, including Russia,
agreed in November to slash production in a bid to bolster prices.

8 The U.S.  dollar shines

The greenback hit its highest level vs. the euro in 14 years as global investors
began pricing in less Fed stimulus and stronger U.S. growth. The dollar surged
in value against currencies around the world following the election of Trump. It
showed particular strength against the Chinese yuan, which Trump repeatedly
targeted in his campaign after accusing the Chinese government of currency
manipulation to benefit its economy.

9 Pressure  on free trade

A decades-long movement toward free trade and globalization appeared to stop in
its tracks as presidential candidates  Trump and Hillary Clinton both vowed to
withdraw from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which would have relaxed trade
restrictions with Asian nations. Trump threatened to pull out of the North
American Free Trade Agreement if Mexico doesn't renegotiate the deal and to slap
Mexico and China with tariffs of 35% and 45%, respectively. His aim: to partly
reverse the millions of layoffs at U.S. factories as jobs were offshored to
China, Mexico and other countries. But many economists say those jobs aren't
coming back and tariffs risk retaliation that could ravage U.S. exports and
jobs.

10 Fake news fears

Fake news bubbled up during the political campaign and became a business issue
for the place where many people get their news: Facebook. A post-election
analysis by BuzzFeed found that fake stories shared on Facebook outperformed
real news stories during the final three months of the campaign cycle. The most
shared story was a fake report about Pope Francis' endorsement of
then-Republican nominee  Trump. Facebook CEO and co-founder Mark Zuckerberg said
it was "extremely unlikely" that it affected the election outcome, but the
company is making changes so users of the social network can more easily flag
news that is fake. A Pew Research Center survey, released this month, found that
63% say fake news creates "great confusion" among the public about current
events.

Contributing: Roger Yu, Nathan Bomey, Mike Snider, Matt Krantz

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Luke Franke, Naples (Fla.) Daily News via USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

DirecTV Now is newest option for cord cutters;
Is AT&T's streaming service a fit for you? Maybe

BYLINE: Mike Snider, @mikesnider, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 300 words


AT&T is making its play for cord cutters and mobile video junkies with DirecTV
Now, a Net TV service that has been live more than three weeks now.

During its introductory launch period, DirecTV Now is letting newcomers check
out more than 100 channels for free for seven days and after that for $35
monthly. You can keep that monthly price as long as you remain a customer.

What channels are we talking about?  AMC, CNBC, CNN, Discovery, Disney, ESPN,
ESPNU, Fox News, MSNBC, NBC Sports, Nickelodeon and TBS,  some local broadcast
channels and regional sports networks in certain markets. Eventually, that
package will cost $60 monthly, with others ranging from $35 to $70 monthly. In
addition to linear live-streaming channels, DirecTV Now has on-demand
programming, too.

Among the pluses: No annual contract, and you don't need a satellite dish, as
with standard DirecTV, or a pay-TV set-top box.

If you are a Roku devotee, you will have to wait. So far, the service is
available on Apple TV, iPhones and iPads, Amazon Fire TV devices, Chromecasts,
Android phones and tablets, computers and Google Cast TVs from China's LeEco.

Watching recently, I encountered little of the freezing video and error messages
some viewers reported. I watched on a tablet and smartphone connected via Wi-Fi
at home and at work and on an Ethernet cable connected to my router to an Apple
TV to watch on a big screen. Only a few times did I see pixelated video and once
did I see video freeze. I was also able to watch my local news on Fox and NBC.

For now, CBS, as well as CBS-owned Showtime, are not on the service. And if you
need a DVR, you may want to wait for DirecTV Now to add that functionality.

Sports fans, take note: DirecTV Now doesn't gain you access to the satellite
service's popular NFL Sunday Ticket service.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Reserves get their time in spotlight;
Few teams will go all out in Week 17

BYLINE: Steven Ruiz, @TheStevenRuiz, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 568 words


The playoffs have ended in most fantasy leagues, but for those who still have
something to play for, there's a minefield of playing time issues to avoid in
setting lineups for Week 17.

STUDS

QB Drew Brees, New Orleans Saints: Only the Cleveland Browns have allowed more
fantasy points to quarterbacks than the Atlanta Falcons. Brees should cap yet
another prolific season with a huge game.

RB Devonta Freeman,  Falcons: Freeman gashed the Saints defense in the first
matchup between these teams, only needing 14carries to top the 150-yard mark.
The Falcons are still playing for a first-round playoff bye, so  don't worry
about Freeman resting before the playoffs.

WR DeAndre Hopkins, Houston Texans: Hopkins has disappointed all season, but you
can trust him against a Tennessee Titans secondary that allowed the struggling
Jacksonville Jaguars to produce their best performance of 2016. Coach Bill
O'Brien has said the playoff-bound Texans will not rest their starters.

QB Aaron Rodgers, Green Bay Packers: In a must-win game, Rodgers will feast on
one of the league's worst pass defenses. The Detroit Lions have allowed three or
more passing touchdowns four times this season. Rodgers should make it five.

DUDS

RB Todd Gurley, Los Angeles Rams: Gurley's dud of a season will end in
disappointment, as the Rams are taking on an Arizona Cardinals run defense that
has allowed 3.6 yards per attempt. Keep him on your bench.

QB Kirk Cousins, Washington Redskins: It's hard to trust Cousins. He'll lay an
egg every so often, and the chances of him doing so again are good against one
of the league's best pass defenses. The New York Giants have allowed 14 passing
touchdowns.

TE Delanie Walker, Tennessee Titans: The Texans defense is playing its best
football of the year. It has shut down almost every  tight end it's played,
including Walker, who caught two passes for 34 yards when the teams met in
October.

WR Amari Cooper, Oakland Raiders: Cooper likely will draw the Denver Broncos'
Chris Harris Jr. in coverage, and Derek Carr's injury might persuade the Raiders
to focus on the running game. If that's the case, Cooper won't get a lot of
targets and will have a tough time shaking Harris when Matt McGloin does look
his way.

SLEEPERS

RB DeAngelo Williams, Pittsburgh Steelers: The Steelers are locked into the No.
5 seed in the AFC playoffs, so look for Pittsburgh to rest its starters. That
includes Le'Veon Bell, so it's time to get Williams off your bench or to pluck
him off the waiver wire. He has a great matchup against a Browns defense that
has struggled all season.

QB EJ Manuel, Buffalo Bills: You'd have to be mighty desperate to even consider
Manuel, but with many teams resting starters,  he isn't the worst option. The
New York Jets secondary has been horrid all year, so there's a good chance
Manuel takes advantage of the opportunity.

WR Paul Richardson, Seattle Seahawks: Seattle placed Tyler Lockett on injured
reserve this week, which means Richardson is the team's lone deep threat. He'll
have plenty of opportunities to show off his speed against an overmatched San
Francisco 49ers secondary.

TE Jesse James,  Steelers: The start-anyone-playing-the-Browns strategy has
worked for fantasy owners all season, and that won't change in Week 17. Yes, the
Steelers are resting their key starters, but James won't be one of them. And the
Browns have allowed the most touchdowns to tight ends this season.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Tommy Gilligan, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Response over election hacks in the works;
Russia calls allegation a lie

BYLINE: David Jackson, and Eliza Collins, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 359 words


The Obama administration is preparing a response to Russia over the hacking of
Democratic officials during this year's presidential election and could take
action very soon, officials said Wednesday.

Anticipating an imminent announcement, Russia continued to deny the hacking
allegations and condemned reports of new sanctions as "provocation directed by
the White House."

Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said, "To be honest, we are tired
of lie about the 'Russian hackers,' which is being poured down in the United
States from the very top."

President Obama said this month that he would retaliate against the Russians but
noted that his actions may or may not be made public.

"Our goal continues to be to send a clear message to Russia or others not to do
this to us, because we can do stuff to you," the president said.

The Obama administration and U.S. intelligence agencies accused Russia of
getting involved in the election in an effort to help Donald Trump win.

Trump has questioned whether the Russians were behind the hackings of Democratic
officials, and he said Democrats push the story to explain Hillary Clinton's
loss.

Two Republican senators -- Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and John McCain of
Arizona -- said they support new sanctions on Russia, but they should be imposed
by the next Congress and the incoming Trump administration.

"The bottom line is you need to hit Russia in a sustained fashion," Graham told
Fox News, "so if Obama tries to do something going out the door that's not
sustained, then you send the wrong signal."

Graham called for sanctions on Russia's energy sector and said Russian President
Vladimir Putin should be singled out.

McCain, also on Fox News, said, "Make sure that Vladimir Putin knows that this
kind of action in the future will be responded to.

"So far, he's gotten away with whatever he has wanted to do. We need a firm
policy."

In a White House news conference this month, Obama said the response to Russia
should be done "in a thoughtful, methodical way."

He envisioned "an appropriate response that increases costs for them for
behavior like this in the future but does not create problems for us."

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Natalia Kolesnikova, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Looking ahead at 2020, Democrats have nobody new to show;
Biden hasn't ruled out a run, but voters hope for a change

BYLINE: Eliza Collins, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 205 words


The potential 2020 Democratic field looks like "an old folks' home," according
to outgoing Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid.

In early December, the Nevada Democrat was asked whether he'd support Vice
President Biden if he ran for president in the next cycle.

"It depends on who's running," Reid responded, according to a New York Magazine
story published Tuesday. "It appears we're going to have an old folks' home.
We've got (Elizabeth) Warren; she'll be 71. Biden will be 78. Bernie (Sanders)
will be 79."

Biden said this month he was open to running in 2020 -- "What the hell, man?" he
said. Later that week, he told Stephen Colbert he had "no plans" to run. He
didn't shut the door completely, however; he said he's learned to "never say
never."

Neither Sen.  Sanders, I-Vt., who ran for the Democratic presidential nomination
this year, nor Sen.  Warren, D-Mass., have expressed plans to run in 2020. Both
are up for re-election  in 2018.

Last week, USA TODAY released a poll in partnership with Suffolk University that
said Democrats and independents had someone else in mind for 2020: "someone
entirely new."

Two-thirds of Democrats and independents surveyed said they'd be "excited" to
see a new name on the ballot in four years.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Alex Wong, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Trump considers privatizing vet carE;
VA has struggled to improve service

BYLINE: David Jackson, @djusatoday, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 346 words


After bashing President Obama over Israel and transition issues -- then saying
they had a nice phone conversation -- Donald Trump and aides on Wednesday
floated the idea of creating a "public-private" system for veterans health care.

Amid a series of job interviews, Trump met with a group of health care
professionals in a discussion that included talk of a system that would allow
veterans to use the traditional VA system or opt for private medical facilities.

Trump has not named his choice to head the Department of Veterans Affairs, an
agency that has been rocked by scandal since it was revealed in 2014 that
veterans died while waiting for long-delayed medical appointments. The VA
secretary was replaced, and the agency has put an emphasis on improving care,
but USA TODAY published documents this month showing that effort is achieving
mixed results.

The group that met Wednesday with Trump included Cleveland Clinic CEO Delos
"Toby" Cosgrove, who may be under consideration for VA secretary. The group
could become a standing advisory committee on veterans health care, according to
a senior transition official who spoke on condition of anonymity because nothing
has been formalized.

Trump announced that two companies, Sprint and OneWeb, pledged to create a
combined 8,000 domestic jobs.

The jobs are returning to the USA, "which is a nice change," said Trump, who
claimed during the presidential campaign that the USA was losing jobs because of
bad trade deals with other countries. Neither Trump nor the companies provided
any detail about the jobs.

Trump began his day by criticizing Obama on Israel, the United Nations and the
transition between the incoming and outgoing administrations.

"Doing my best to disregard the many inflammatory President O statements and
roadblocks," Trump tweeted. "Thought it was going to be a smooth transition --
NOT!"

The White House confirmed the Obama-Trump conversation Wednesday. "Today's call,
like the others since the election, was positive and focused on continuing a
smooth and effective transition," spokesman Eric Schultz said.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Evan Vucci, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

Kerry pushes Mideast peace plan;
He defends inaction on U.N. resolution, saying settlements put efforts in
'jeopardy'

BYLINE: Jim Michaels, @jimmichaels, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 592 words


Secretary of State John Kerry on Wednesday defended the controversial decision
to abstain on a U.N. vote condemning Israeli settlements, saying the Obama
administration wants to push a two-state solution for peace with Palestinians.

"That is what we are trying to preserve for our sake and (Israel's)," Kerry
said. "We reject the criticism that this vote abandons Israel."

In a lengthy explanation of his vision for peace in the Middle East, Kerry
assailed Israeli settlements on land claimed by Palestinians for an independent
state as an obstacle to peace. Kerry said the settlements put prospects for
peace in "jeopardy."

Kerry said a two-state solution, which calls for an independent Palestinian
state existing peacefully alongside Israel, is the only way to guarantee the
Jewish state's long-term security in the region.

"If the choice is one state, Israel can either be Jewish or democratic, it
cannot be both," Kerry said.

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who had condemned the United States
for abstaining in Friday's Security Council vote, lashed out at Kerry's speech
as "almost as unbalanced as the anti-Israel resolution passed at the U.N. last
week."

"Israelis do not need to be lectured about the importance of peace by foreign
leaders," he said.

The sharp exchange represents another flare-up in the Obama administration's
relationship with Israel. Netanyahu was a leading critic of last year's nuclear
arms deal with Iran.

President-elect Donald Trump, another critic of the nuclear deal, wanted the
United States to veto the United Nations resolution and attacked it after it
passed.

Before Kerry's speech Wednesday, Trump tweeted, "We cannot continue to let
Israel be treated with such total disdain and disrespect. They used to have a
great friend in the U.S., but not anymore. The beginning of the end was the
horrible Iran deal, and now this (U.N.)! Stay strong Israel, January 20th is
fast approaching!" Trump will be inaugurated as president Jan. 20.

The city of Jerusalem had planned to approve permits Wednesday for the
construction of hundreds of homes for Israelis in East Jerusalem, but it
postponed a vote, so Kerry could give his speech outlining the Obama
administration's vision for peace.

The committee could approve building permits at a later date.

About 600,000 Israeli settlers live on land in the West Bank and East Jerusalem
that both Israel and Palestinians claim rights to.

In addition to condemning Israeli settlements as a "flagrant violation" of
international law, the U.N. resolution condemned Palestinian attacks on
Israelis.

Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas said Wednesday he is ready to
resume peace talks with Israel if it halts settlement construction.

Prospects for resuming long-dormant negotiations soon seem highly unlikely as
long as Israel's government supports expanded settlements and Palestinians
persist in attacking Israelis with knives and other weapons.

Kerry, acknowledging the difficulty of renewing  talks, said Netanyahu's
coalition is "the most right-wing in Israel's history."

"The settler agenda is defining the future of Israel. And their stated purpose
is clear: They believe in one state," Kerry said. The secretary, whose four-year
tenure ends next month, revived his  plan for a peace pact, which includes
negotiated borders for Israel and a Palestinian state, formal recognition of
each other's sovereignty and access to holy sites in Jerusalem.

The Palestinians want East Jerusalem to be their capital, but Israel has ruled
out dividing the city that serves as its capital.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Shawn Thew, European Pressphoto Agency

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

'Stars Wars' tops Fandango's 2017 must-sees;
Fans also eager for 'Guardians 2,' 'Beauty & the Beast'

BYLINE: Bryan Alexander, @BryAlexand, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 427 words


The Force will run strong next year with Star Wars: Episode VIII voted the most
anticipated 2017 film in a survey  by the ticket site Fandango.com.

The vote comes as Rogue One: A Star Wars Story (Fandango's most anticipated film
for 2016) leads the box office charge over the holidays, now nearing $575
million worldwide.  Episode VIII (in theaters Dec. 15), the second film in the
Star Wars sequel trilogy, follows 2015's record-breaking The Force Awakens and
stars Carrie Fisher, who died Tuesday, as Leia.

The poll of more than 2,000 site visitors who described themselves as frequent
moviegoers was  taken the week of Dec. 19,  before Fisher's death. All films
scheduled for national release were included.

"Episode VIII is looking to be the movie event of 2017, just as Rogue One was
the movie event of 2016. Disney keeps doing this every year," says Erik Davis,
managing editor of Fandango.com. "They concentrate on that Star Wars moment, and
each year it explodes."

The  list is dominated by five superhero event movies, with Chris Pratt's
Star-Lord leading Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 into the second spot, followed
by Wonder Woman (No. 4), the reboot Spider-Man: Homecoming (No. 5), the DC
Comics superteam Justice League (No. 6) and Hugh Jackman's final Wolverine movie
Logan (No. 9).

The humor-filled original Guardians surprised with its power in 2015, taking
$773 million in worldwide box office.

"The recipe  writer/director James Gunn created is such a winning one," Davis
says. "The second looks to be just as much fun, and now we love these
characters."

Guardians 2 (out May 5) also boosted Pratt to take Fandango's most anticipated
actor in a separate poll. Wonder Woman (June 2) and its star Gal Gadot look to
make a strong showing.

"People have been waiting for this female-led superhero movie, and this love
only grew when we saw Wonder Woman revealed in Batman v Superman: Dawn of
Justice," Davis says. "She will pack a big punch in her solo outing."

Disney's live-action Beauty and the Beast (March 17) is a strong No. 3 among the
superheroes on the most-anticipated-movies poll.

The placement gives Walt Disney Studios the top three spots on the list
(including Star Wars and Guardians 2), which doesn't surprise Jeff Bock, senior
box office analyst for Exhibitor Relations.

The first Fast & Furious film without the late Paul Walker, The Fate of the
Furious, landed at No.7. The second installment of E.L. James' kinky sex drama
Fifty Shades Darker landed at No. 8, and Gru's return to Minion-mania in
Despicable Me 3 rounds out the list at No. 10.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Disney/Marvel

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Rethinking immigration one case at a time

BYLINE: F.H. Buckley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 514 words


When President-elect Donald Trump promised a wall, he mentioned a big door for
qualified legal immigrants. If that's what you want, just look north.

The U.S. is 14% foreign-born, and immigration is a huge issue here. Canadians
are more than 20% foreign-born and it's a non-issue. They're doing something
right.

What would Canadian-style immigration policies look like if we imported them?
We'd need a sea change in how we think about immigration, one in which the
interests of native-born Americans come first.

The next thing we'd need is a repeal of our 1965 Immigration Act. Right now
immigration slots are about two-thirds family-based and one-fifth economic
migrants.  We should welcome economic immigrants with open arms and create a
system that recognizes that there are a lot of great immigrants out there. We
need to hustle to get them.

Yes, we need to screen for people who would do us harm, but that apart we need
Candians' entrepreneurial business model.

Here's what they do: Canada uses the Internet to make its system transparent and
easy to access. Economic immigrants can quickly determine their eligibility by
getting on a website and seeing how they score on a points system that asks
questions about age, language ability, education and skills. The answers are
verified by private headhunters retained by Canada.

Even then, applicants are not given an immigrant visa without a job, though they
may be able to visit for interviews. One of the big immigration issues here is
whether an immigrant will be taking away a job from a native-born American.
Right now we check by asking the Labor Department to certify that there are no
Americans qualified for the job. The "labor cert" process can take as long as
two years.

Canadians get around this by posting labor market analysis on the Web in
advance. When an immigrant sees whether he qualifies under the points system, he
can also see whether he has a realistic possibility of a job, given the
country's reported needs. The labor market impact assessment is tailored to the
needs of different industries in different parts of the country. In other words,
the immigrant might be permitted to accept a job as an architect in Vancouver
but not in Toronto.

Some  will quickly get a job lined up. For others, it's a waiting game. If no
employer picks them up within a year, they'll be dropped from the queue.

One feature of the Canadian system that will appeal to Americans is its "nominee
program," in which provinces are given control over immigration within their
borders. Applied in this country, Texas might be allocated 20,000 immigrant
slots for people it thinks it needs, after they pass federal security standards.
If you want to know what the labor needs of Texas, ask Texans.

Our broken legal immigration system is a far greater problem than our illegal
entrants. Trump has appointed a border security hawk in retired general John
Kelly to head up Homeland Security. While he builds that wall, let's fix the
door for legal immigrants too.

Frank H. Buckley's most recent book is The Way Back: Restoring the Promise of
America.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Apple tops in holiday device activations

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 208 words


It appears devices with the Apple label remain the hot gift during the holidays.
During the holidays, 44% of devices activated were from Apple, according to a
report from research firm Flurry. Samsung was the second-most popular gadget
device, with 21% of activations. Huawei was a distant third, followed by LG and
Amazon. Absent on the list was Google, which launched the Pixel smartphone this
year. Samsung activations climbed in Flurry's findings despite issuing a  recall
this year for the Galaxy Note 7 smartphone. The electronics giant discontinued
the device following reports the phone could overheat and  catch fire.

Delta cancels order  for Boeing Dreamliners

In a move that was widely expected, Delta announced Tuesday it had reached an
agreement with Boeing to cancel an order for 18 of its 787 Dreamliners. Delta
inherited the order via its 2008 merger with Northwest. Northwest had been
expected to be the first U.S. airline to fly Boeing's new-age Dreamliner, but
production delays at Boeing pushed back the 787's debut by several years. In the
interim, Delta acquired Northwest and deferred the order before finally moving
to cancel it this week. In a statement, Delta said the move will "prudently
address our widebody aircraft needs."

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: MONEYLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Story stocks

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 155 words


Fred's

Change

-$0.95

% chg

-4.8%

Price: $18.68

Day's high: $19.55

Low: $18.41

The regional drugstore chain enacted a poison pill plan after a hedge fund
bought an almost 25% stake in the company. Fred's is in negotiations with Rite
Aid to acquire 865 stores it needs to sell to close its merger with Walgreens
Boots Alliance Inc.

Qualcomm

Change

-$1.50

%chg

-2.2%

Price: $65.75

Day's high: $67.07

Low: $65.70

The chip maker was fined by South Korea's antitrust regulator for its patent
royalty activities and unfair sales practices. The fine is roughly $850 million.
Along with a negative industry note, shares gapped down premarket.

Delta Air Lines

Change

-$0.85

%chg

-1.7%

Price: $49.51

Day's high: $50.46

Low: $49.45

The airliner canceled its deal with Boeing to purchase 18 of its 787
Dreamliners. Delta inherited the order via its 2008 merger with Northwest. Delta
and Boeing did not reveal the details of their agreement to end the $4 billion
order.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Book Buzz

BYLINE: Jocelyn McClurg

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 286 words


Holiday reads: It was a very Merry Christmas for Bill O'Reilly, J.K. Rowling and
print books.

Santa dropped off lots of copies of O'Reilly's Killing the Rising Sun: How
America Vanquished World War II Japan (co-written with Martin Dugard), which is
back at No. 1 this week. (Sales were tracked from Dec. 19 to Dec. 25.)

Rising Sun, the latest in a best-selling historical franchise, first landed at
No. 1 on Sept. 22; it hasn't dropped out of the top 10 since. But this is only
the second time it has been No.1.

Other holiday trends:

Consumers snapped up print books as gifts in the week before Christmas, both
hardcovers and paperbacks. Only two books in the top 50 sold more copies
digitally than in print: Melt by Helen Hardt at No.16 and One Fell Sweep by
Ilona Andrews at No. 39.

Rowling's excellent year continued through the holidays; she has five titles in
the top 50. Her two 2016 script books are in the top 5: Harry Potter and the
Cursed Child is No. 3, while Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them: The
Original Screenplay is No. 4. Two handsome Harry Potter gift editions
illustrated by Jim Kay also sold well, with Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's
Stone: The Illustrated Edition at No. 40 and this fall's Harry Potter and the
Chamber of Secrets: The Illustrated Edition at No. 47. Meanwhile, the original
edition of Sorcerer's Stone is No. 38.

The top fiction book for the holidays was The Whistler by John Grisham at No. 2.

In addition to Killing the Rising Sun, strong holiday non-fiction hardcover
titles included The Magnolia Story by Chip and Joanna Gaines at No. 8; Hillbilly
Elegy by J. D. Vance at No. 9; Born to Run by Bruce Springsteen at No. 10; and
The Undoing Project by Michael Lewis at No. 11.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

50 STORIES FROM 50 STATES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 5850 words


It was quite a year. We said hello to President-elect Donald Trump. We said
goodbye to Prince, Muhammad Ali and John Glenn. We saw the power of peaceful
protest at Standing Rock. And we saw the power of hate and gun violence, once
again, this time at a gay nightclub in Orlando. We listened as an anonymous
survivor of a sexual assault by a Stanford swimmer changed the national
conversation on rape. We witnessed history as the first Latina was elected to
the Senate.

There was unspeakable loss and times that affirmed our faith in America. As 2016
comes to a close, USA TODAY revisits one story from each state -- the big news,
the best investigations and the moments we can't stop talking about.

Alabama

UNPARALLELED LOSS IN STATE'S 'LITERARY CAPITAL'

Harper Lee, among America's  most influential authors, died Feb. 19 in her
hometown,  Monroeville, Ala. To Kill a Mockingbird -- about a lawyer who defends
a black man falsely accused of rape in the Jim Crow South -- won the 1961
Pulitzer Prize, sold more than 30million copies in English, is taught in schools
and has inspired artists from Truman Capote to Taylor Swift. "What that one
story did, more powerfully than 100 speeches possibly could, was change the way
we saw each other and then the way we saw ourselves. Through the uncorrupted
eyes of a child, she showed us the beautiful complexity of our common humanity
and the importance of striving for justice," President Obama said in awarding
Lee a National Medal of the Arts in 2011. Mockingbird was her  only novel until
2015's Go Set a Watchman, which, despite tepid reviews, reaffirmed her as a
stalwart anti-racist.

ALASKA

WHERE CLIMATE CHANGE IS A DAILY REALITY

Alaska was so warm this year, snow was shipped in for the Iditarod sled dog
race, ice melt forced polar bears into the paths of schoolchildren, and the
state saw its biggest landslide in decades, partly due to retreating glaciers.
Here, climate change is not abstract -- especially in the state's western
corner, where people's relationship with nature is a matter of life and death.

ARIZONA

SHERIFF ENDS YEAR WITH A BANG -- OR WHIMPER?

Sheriff Joe Arpaio, aka "America's toughest sheriff," was criminally charged
with contempt of court in October. In November, he lost his election, defeated
after 24 years in office. Known nationally for immigration crackdowns and racial
profiling, advocates for migrants celebrated. "Sheriff Arpaio didn't lose by
coincidence; he was taken down by the people he hunted," Carlos Garcia said. Not
one to leave quietly, Arpaio renewed his claim Dec. 15 that President Obama's
birth certificate was forged (a theory  debunked by fact-checkers and ultimately
abandoned by  Trump).

Arkansas

THE DUGGARS ARE STILL COUNTING

TLC may have pulled the plug in 2015 on its hit series 19 Kids and Counting
after  the revelation Jim Bob and Michelle Duggar's son, Josh, sexually molested
five young girls, including his own sisters, but in 2016, the Duggar family
still made headlines. This year: Jinger Duggar married soccer player Jeremy
Vuolo. Jessa and husband, Ben Seewald, announced they're expecting a  second
child. So did Jill. And Josh Duggar got out of rehab and returned to Arkansas,
months after he'd checked into a "faith-based" facility in Illinois.

California

CHANGING  DISCOURSE ON SEXUAL ASSAULT

Her words were raw and excruciating. "You don't know me, but you've been inside
me, and that's why we're here today," said Emily Doe, the anonymous victim of a
sexual assault in 2015 by Stanford University swimmer Brock Turner. The powerful
impact statement she read in court gave voice to sexual assault victims and
forced the nation to have an important conversation about rape culture. Turner,
who assaulted Doe near a trash bin while she was unconscious, was sentenced to
six months in prison, a seemingly lenient punishment that drew national outrage.
He  served only three months. In the aftermath of the case, California passed a
law requiring longer sentences to be served in state prison for defendants
convicted of assaulting unconscious victims. Doe was named one of Glamour
magazine's 2016 Women of the Year.

Colorado

PEYTON MANNING SAYS GOODBYE TO THE NFL

Future Hall of Famer Peyton Manning capped  an  18-year career by winning Super
Bowl 50 in his final NFL game -- propelling the Denver Broncos to a 24-10
victory over the Carolina Panthers. Like Broncos president and former Denver QB
John Elway, Manning retired  as a champion. He became the oldest quarterback to
start a Super Bowl and the first to win Super Bowls with multiple franchises.

Connecticut

GUN VIOLENCE AD WITH A  TWIST GOES VIRAL

Gun violence can be stopped if you know what to look for. That's the message of
the ad  "Evan," which went viral this year. A  folk song sets the tone for a
romance that unfolds with expert pacing. Then it  comes to a shattering halt.
The spot is from the Sandy Hook Promise, a non-partisan, non-profit group
launched by families who lost loved ones four years ago in Newtown.

Delaware

JOE BIDEN FOR PRESIDENT IN 2020? POSSIBLY, MAYBE

Joe Biden, a former Delaware senator and  two-term vice president, said he's not
ruling out anything -- including a run for the White House -- as Democrats look
to the future after a stinging election. Biden ran for president in 1988 and
2008. In announcing his decision not to run for 2016, a grieving Biden, whose
son, Beau, died of brain cancer at age 46 in 2015, said the country needed "a
moonshot" to cure cancer. President Obama put him in charge of that initiative
in January.

Florida

AFTER PULSE SHOOTING, WE MOURN THE VICTIMS

Omar Mateen's voice went from emotionless to frenzied, speaking with police
negotiators  June 12. Referencing U.S. airstrikes in the Middle East, Mateen,
29, of Fort Pierce  killed 49 and left dozens injured at Pulse, a gay nightclub
in Orlando, in one of the deadliest shooting rampages  in U.S. history. He was
killed after a three-hour standoff. After initial plans to turn Pulse into a
memorial, owners recently decided to keep the LGBT club.

Georgia

DAD IN 'HOT CAR' CASE GUILTY ON ALL CHARGES

Prosecutors said he knew his 22-month-old son sweltered in a hot car for seven
hours. The jury agreed. Justin Ross Harris was found guilty in November on all
charges in the  death of son Cooper in 2014. Prosecutors argued  that Harris
wanted to live a child-free life. He was sentenced to life in prison without the
possibility of parole plus 32 years.

Hawaii

75 YEARS AFTER ATTACK ON PEARL HARBOR

More than seven decades after Japanese forces struck the heart of the  Navy's
Pacific Fleet in a fiery ambush at Pearl Harbor, thousands of veterans, military
officials, dignitaries and a dwindling number of survivors gathered there Dec. 7
to remember the dead and the start of a war that changed the world.  Pearl
Harbor gave birth to the "Greatest Generation," said Tom Brokaw. Tuesday,
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe toured the site with President Obama, marking
the first formal visit by a Japanese leader.

Idaho

WHO'S TEACHING THE CHILDREN?

We trust them with our kids, but what don't we know about teachers' troubled
pasts? A USA TODAY Network investigation found flaws in the nation's fractured
systems for checking teachers' backgrounds. Several teachers have left or been
removed from positions after misconduct came to light, including Idaho high
school teacher James P. Verity. Verity lost his teaching license in Oregon over
allegations of a sexually charged relationship with an 18-year-old student but
found a fresh start teaching  in neighboring Idaho. The  investigation prompted
a state-by-state audit of a privately run database of disciplined teachers.

Illinois

CHICAGO HITS GRIM MILESTONE

Gun violence defies comprehension in Chicago. In 2016, the nation's
third-largest city surpassed 700 murders. There is no shortage of maladies
plaguing Chicago. It is mired in billions of dollars of debt, unemployment for
young black men hovers just below 50%, and Chicago's African-American population
has plummeted by nearly 200,000 since 2000 as the black middle class has looked
for greener -- and safer -- pastures. The city blames the violence on a
combination of increased gang activity and weak gun laws, but anti-violence
activists point to a lack of economic opportunity. Diane Latiker, who heads the
Chicago organization Kids Off the Block, said, "Chicago has long been one of a
Tale of Two Cities. Nothing has changed."

Indiana

USA GYMNASTICS ENABLED SEX PREDATORS

The issue of sexual misconduct by coaches has haunted USA Gymnastics for
decades, but an  investigation by The Indianapolis Star  revealed the
organization's  policies enabled predatory coaches to continue working with
children, despite warnings of misconduct. At least 368 gymnasts have alleged
some form of sexual abuse at the hands of their coaches, gym owners and other
adults working in gymnastics. And it's likely an undercount.

Iowa

GOV. BRANSTAD HEADING TO CHINA

He helped deliver Iowa's electoral votes to Donald Trump.  Gov. Terry Branstad
will serve the new administration as U.S. ambassador to China. Branstad  has
known Chinese President Xi Jinping since 1985, when Xi visited Iowa on an
agricultural mission, and considers him "an old friend." He's conducted numerous
trade missions to China to promote Iowa agriculture products. Branstad, 70, is
the longest-serving governor in U.S. history, serving four terms from 1983 to
1999 and a term and a half since 2011.

Kansas

BOY DIES ON  WORLD'S TALLEST WATERSLIDE

It was called Verrückt, the German word for crazy or insane. At 168 feet high,
it was taller than Niagara Falls and the Statue of Liberty. Officials announced
the ride would be demolished after  the death of Caleb Schwab, 10,  son of Rep.
Scott Schwab. Caleb died from a fatal neck injury  suffered on the ride in
August at the Schlitterbahn Water Park in Kansas City. The ride propelled rafts
with two to three riders at speeds of up to 65 mph.

Kentucky

GOODBYE TO THE GREATEST, MUHAMMAD ALI

The world mourned when boxing legend and Louisville native Muhammad Ali died
June 3 at  age  74. Ali was an Olympic gold medalist and three-time heavyweight
champion,  but he was so much more. His flair in the ring ("Float like a
butterfly, sting like a bee!") and genius for trash talking ("I'm so mean, I
make medicine sick") won him worldwide celebrity. At the height of his fame, he
became a leading civil rights and anti-war voice. His opposition to the Vietnam
War in 1967 cost him the belt and led to a three-year ban from boxing. After
retiring, Ali was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease in 1984. Even in illness,
Ali was an inspiration, his trembling hands lighting the Olympic torch for the
1996 Atlanta Games. His Louisville funeral was attended by thousands, including
former president Bill Clinton, who saluted him as a "universal soldier for
humanity."

Louisiana

HEY, REMEMBER US?

While America descended from its  Olympics high and focused on the  presidential
election, Louisianans were fighting for survival. In August, the Southern state
experienced  flooding so horrific that the Red Cross called it the worst natural
disaster since Superstorm  Sandy. About 40,000 homes and 13 lives were lost.
The lack of national interest in the flood could be because Americans are
becoming numb to the onslaught of human suffering. "There is a bit of disaster
fatigue," says Susan Moeller, professor of media and international affairs at
the University of Maryland.

Maine

CANNABIS CHRISTMAS? NOT YET, MAINERS

Although  Maine narrowly voted in favor of legalizing marijuana in November,
those opposing the measure aimed to snuff out the flame. If a recount, which
could take until January, upholds passage, Maine will follow  Massachusetts to
become the second Northeastern state to legalize marijuana. The law would allow
adults to have up to six mature plants, 12 immature plants and an unlimited
number of seedlings without a state license.

Massachusetts

DAVID ORTIZ, BOSTON'S GREATEST BALL PLAYER, IS OUT

He didn't go out the way he wanted: David Ortiz, the 6-foot-3 Red Sox slugger
from the Dominican Republic, ended his 20-year career in a sweep to the
Cleveland Indians in October. It wasn't long, though, before chants of "Thank
you, Papi," began, and Ortiz saluted the city he came to embody. After joining
the Red Sox in 2003, Ortiz brought three World Series rings to Boston in nine
years, including its first in eight decades. He became the city's voice,
delivering a defiant, legendary speech in the wake of the Boston Marathon
bombing. He'll go down as one of the greatest Red Sox players of all time --
perhaps the most important.

Michigan

12 MONTHS LATER, FLINT'S WATER REMAINS  UNSAFE

President Obama declared a state of emergency in Flint, Mich., in January, but
the city's water still isn't safe to drink without  a filter. Lead levels spiked
after the city swapped water suppliers in 2014. The state skipped necessary
anti-corrosion treatments, letting lead leach from miles of old service pipes
into residents' taps. Everyone who drank the city's tap water was exposed,
including as many as 8,657 children, Census data showed. The harmful impacts are
considered most severe on young brains and nervous systems. In one of its last
votes of the year, Congress approved legislation worth more than $120 million to
deal with the  crisis.

Minnesota

GENRE-DEFYING ICON PRINCE IS GONE

When music legend Prince died in April, it seemed as though the whole world
stopped to mourn. The pop icon blended funk and rock with his own fierce
individualism, winning seven Grammys, one Oscar and a spot in the Rock and Roll
Hall of Fame. His body was found in an elevator at his estate in suburban
Minneapolis. The cause: an accidental, self-inflicted overdose of a painkiller.
The singer didn't have a will, leaving the fate of his fortune to play out in
court.  Fans celebrated the sassy prodigy who created Purple Rain, Let's Go
Crazy and When Doves Cry -- all on a single album. Prince album sales rose
11,500% the week after his death, per Nielsen data.

Mississippi

SHOCKING ACT OF RACISM BY STUDENTS

It was a story one could hardly believe was written in 2016. One or more white
students placed a noose around the neck of a black football player at the Stone
High School in Wiggins, a small town near Biloxi. The NAACP said the  incident
happened in October during a break in football practice, and the noose was
"yanked backward" while on the student's neck. "This is 2016, not 1916. This is
America," said Mississippi NAACP President Derrick Johnson. Days later, a
student was disciplined, according to the school district's lawyer, who could
not name the student or the specific punishment, citing privacy rules.

Missouri

RAMS FANS FURIOUS AS TEAM LEAVES ST. LOUIS

After 21 years in St. Louis, Rams fans learned in January their beloved
franchise officially would move back to Los Angeles. Builders broke ground on
Rams owner Stan Kroenke's $2.6billion Inglewood stadium project in November. It
will include an entertainment, retail and office development covering nearly 300
acres near the L.A. airport. "I think this is going to be one of the greatest
complexes in the world," NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said of the Inglewood
plan.  The Rams are 4-10 and recently fired coach Jeff Fisher.  That seems to be
OK with some locals. "Whoever they play, I'm rooting against them," St.
Louis-area resident Peter Mueller, 22, said as he watched the L.A. Rams in
September.

Montana

RYAN ZINKE FOR INTERIOR SECRETARY

President-elect Donald Trump nominated Montana Rep. Ryan Zinke to lead the
Interior Department in December, saying the former Navy SEAL strikes the right
balance between protecting the nation's natural resources and overly onerous
federal regulations. Trump said, "America is the most beautiful country in the
world, and he is going to help keep it that way with smart management of our
federal lands." Zinke said he is honored by the nomination, describing himself
"as someone who grew up in a logging and rail town and hiking in Glacier
National Park."

Nebraska

FAMILY VACATION TURNS INTO NIGHTMARE

The horrific death of Lane Graves, a  Nebraska toddler killed after an alligator
pulled him into a lagoon at Disney's Grand Floridian Resort in June, tugged on
every parent's heartstrings. Matt and Melissa Graves were enjoying  vacation
when a 7- to 8-foot gator  emerged from the man-made lake and grabbed Lane, 2,
as he played in about a foot of water. A report from the Florida Fish and
Wildlife Conservation Commission found that the boy did not do anything to
provoke the alligator -- in fact, the report highlighted how other park visitors
alerted Disney employees about seeing gators in the area. Since the attack,
Disney has posted additional warning signs around the park and built fences and
other barriers around some waterfront areas.

Nevada

WOMAN MAKES HISTORY IN THE SENATE

Democrat Catherine Cortez Masto became the first woman to represent Nevada in
the U.S. Senate -- and the first Latina in the chamber's history --  after
defeating Republican Rep. Joe Heck in a tight race in November. The contest --
which brought in more than $90million in outside money -- keeps the seat in
Democratic hands after Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid decided not to seek a
sixth term after serving nearly 30 years in the Senate.

New Hampshire

HEROIN AND OPIOID ABUSE WREAK HAVOC

In New Hampshire, the heroin and opiate epidemic is a public health crisis. "I
have never seen anything like this," Sen. Kelly Ayotte, R-N.H., said during an
appearance  this year before the Senate Judiciary Committee. "This is about real
people dying." Although opioid and heroin addiction have earned the distinction
as the greatest drug threat in the USA, the federal government's effort to
counter it has been spotty. "The biggest area where we have fallen short is
filling the gap between people who need treatment and those able to get it,"
said Michael Botticelli, director of the National Drug Control Policy. White
House officials are  moving quickly to get $500 million flowing into the
hardest-hit areas since  President Obama signed the 21st Century Cures Act in
December to tackle the public health crisis.

Maryland

ZERO CONVICTIONS IN FREDDIE GRAY CASE

Freddie Gray, 25, died of neck injuries  sustained while shackled and handcuffed
without a seat belt in the back of a police car in April 2015. After Gray's
funeral, protests broke out across the city, and rioting resulted in buildings
burned to the ground. After Baltimore's medical examiner determined Gray's death
was a homicide, many residents wanted the six indicted officers to pay.  Judge
Barry Williams acquitted three of the officers, including the van's driver and
the highest-ranking officer. On July 27,  charges against the three remaining
officers accused in the death of Gray were dropped, bringing an end to a
tumultuous criminal case with zero convictions.

New Jersey

AIDES GO DOWN FOR BRIDGEGATE SCANDAL

Two former associates of New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie took the fall for a
politically motivated bridge shutdown that ensnared motorists in a massive
traffic jam three years ago in Fort Lee. A jury found Bridget Anne Kelly,
Christie's former deputy chief of staff, and Bill Baroni, the former deputy
executive director of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, guilty of
charges tied to the George W. Bridge closure, which was considered payback after
Fort Lee Mayor Mark Sokolich, a Democrat, refused to endorse the governor for
re-election. During their six-week trial, the associates suggested Christie knew
early on about the closure, which left motorists stranded and streets packed for
five days. Baroni and Kelly are scheduled to be sentenced Feb. 21.

New York

TRUMP SETTLES  FOR $25 MILLION IN LAWSUIT

During his presidential campaign, Donald Trump vowed not to settle the
class-action lawsuits against Trump University, saying, "I don't want to settle
cases when we're right." But on Nov. 18, a little more than a week after winning
the election, the president-elect agreed to settle fraud cases involving Trump
University for $25 million. The deal does not require Trump to acknowledge
wrongdoing.  The cases included a lawsuit by New York state and two class-action
suits in California against the university, which promised to reveal Trump's
real estate investing "secrets" to those who enrolled.  The New York attorney
general's fraud lawsuit described the defunct university as a scam that lured
aspiring real estate developers, requiring them to shell out up to $35,000.

New Mexico

NAVAJO GIRL KIDNAPPED, MURDERED IN  DESERT

Ashlynne Mike, 11, and her brother Ian, 9, were near their home in Lower
Fruitland on May 2 when a man lured them into his van. He drove them into the
New Mexico desert where he molested Ashlynne and bludgeoned her to death with a
tire iron. Ian, who was released, was found walking along Navajo Route 13.
Ashlynne's family discovered her body the next morning in the desert. Suspect
Tom Begaye Jr., who police said confessed, was charged with first-degree murder,
felony murder, kidnapping resulting in death, two counts of aggravated sexual
abuse resulting in death and two counts of kidnapping of a minor.

North Carolina

'DID YOU SHOOT HIM?'

In a few frantic seconds, something tragic happened on what might  have been an
ordinary weekday afternoon in Charlotte. Plainclothes officers intending to
serve a warrant Sept. 20 on someone else at an apartment complex spotted a
person with a gun, they said. They confronted Keith Lamont Scott as  he waited
for his son's school bus, family and friends said. Scott's wife, coming from
their nearby apartment, captured video footage, in which four shots can be
heard. "Did you shoot him?" she demanded of officer Brent Vinson. Police and
prosecutors said Vinson was justified in shooting because Scott threatened the
officers with a gun, or  appeared to. Charlotte grappled with several nights of
protests as another fatal police shooting sprang into the national
consciousness.

North Dakota

STANDSTILL NEAR STANDING ROCK

Find another way. That's what government engineers said Dec. 4 to builders of
the 1,172-mile Dakota Access pipeline project. It was a victory for
demonstrators who had gathered since  spring to protest planned construction of
the nearly complete oil pipe under a lake at the edge of the Standing Rock
Indian Reservation, about 30 miles south of Bismarck. The protest was the
longest in recent history, as well as the largest gathering of Native Americans
in modern times. Law enforcement officers used tear gas and  water cannons on
the cold but determined crowds. Many of them lived in a sprawling camp of
teepees, mobile homes and cars. Sioux protesters got support from people around
the country, including veterans, who came in as reinforcements. But the dispute
is not over: Pipeline builder Energy Transfer Partners said it doesn't want to
reroute the segment and blasted the Obama administration. It's unclear whether
things could change under the incoming Trump administration.

Ohio

GOODBYE, JOHN GLENN

John Glenn left Earth for a third and final time Dec. 8, when the Ohio-born,
space-race hero died at 95. Glenn  was a decorated fighter pilot who flew scores
of missions in World War II and the Korean War. As a test pilot, he set a
transcontinental speed record. He was a CEO of Royal Crown Cola. He served four
terms in the U.S. Senate, taking a spin as a presidential candidate in 1984. Not
to mention the Cambridge-born, New Concord-raised nice guy  was the first
American to orbit the planet, circling that big blue ball three times before his
risky, dramatic re-entry in the Friendship 7 spacecraft Feb. 20, 1962. In 1998,
he orbited Earth again in the space shuttle Discovery, becoming the oldest
person ever in space, at 77. As a fellow, pioneering Mercury astronaut radioed
on the Friendship mission in 1962, "Godspeed, John Glenn."

Oklahoma

ONE OF THE MOST SEISMIC PLACES

Oklahoma opened 2016 with a swarm of 70 small earthquakes in one week after
jumping from two earthquakes of magnitude 3.0 or higher in 2008 to 890 in 2015.
In March, the U.S. Geological Survey released a report citing the oil and gas
drilling process as the cause. The USGS blamed wastewater disposal, in which
high-pressure water is injected into rock formations underground. Oil and gas
companies argued that the vast majority of wells cause no problems. Despite
depending on the industry for jobs and taxes, Oklahoma strengthened regulations,
and the rate of quakes has declined. Lawsuits against several petroleum
companies are pending over damage caused by the earthquakes.

Oregon

A TENSE, DEADLY STANDOFF

On Jan. 2, a group of armed anti-government activists led by rancher Ammon
Bundy, below, rang in the new year by seizing a federal building at the Malheur
National Wildlife Refuge in Oregon. They said tough restrictions on grazing and
other uses of federal land threaten their way of life. The ensuing standoff with
authorities lasted more than a month. When Bundy and several others tried to
leave the compound to attend a community meeting, law enforcement officials
moved in. During the arrest, Robert "Lavoy" Finicum, the group's de facto
spokesman, was fatally shot. Bundy, his brother  and five other leaders of the
occupation were acquitted of conspiracy and weapons charges.

Pennsylvania

A TRIO OF HIGH-PROFILE SEX ABUSE CASES

1. A grand jury began investigating six Catholic dioceses after more than 50
priests or religious leaders were found to have abused children over a 40-year
period in the Altoona-Johnstown Dioceses and two bishops helped cover it up. In
August, the Diocese of Harrisburg acknowledged that 15 priests who had served
the diocese had been accused of sexually abusing children.

2. Penn State University is still dealing with the aftermath of Jerry Sandusky's
trial, nearly five years after his indictment. The university was told it would
be fined nearly $2.4 million by the U.S. Department of Education in connection
with the former assistant football coach's conviction for the sexual abuse of 10
minors.

3. Comedian Bill Cosby was charged with drugging and raping a woman at his
suburban Philadelphia home in 2004. The case has been bogged down by pretrial
motions for most of the year, but Cosby's trial is scheduled to begin in 2017.

Rhode Island

DON'T COME AFTER WOMEN'S YOGA PANTS

Hundreds of women, girls and other supporters proudly donned yoga pants in
October as they peacefully paraded around the Rhode Island neighborhood of a man
who derided the attire as tacky and ridiculous in a letter to the editor
published in the Barrington Times. "They do nothing to compliment a women over
20 years old," Alan Sorrentino wrote. "In fact, the look is bad. Do yourself a
favor, grow up and stop wearing them in public." The letter backfired. Women
from as far as Texas and Australia said they'd wear yoga pants in a show of
solidarity. Parade organizer Jamie Burke said women are "fed up with the
policing of our wardrobes and our bodies."

South Carolina

DYLANN ROOF IS GUILTY

Dylann Roof, a self-admitted white supremacist, was convicted in December of the
deaths of nine African-American parishioners at Emanuel African Methodist
Episcopal Church. After six days of testimony, a federal jury took less than two
hours to find him guilty of all 33 counts lodged against him. Felicia Sanders, a
survivor of the attack in June 2015, called the verdict "music to my ears."
Roof, 22, will represent himself at sentencing, a move that strips his defense
team of its decision-making powers. In January, the panel will deliberate on
whether Roof faces a life sentence or the death penalty.

South Dakota

CONTROVERSY OVER URINE SAMPLE

People in South Dakota who refuse to cooperate with police for a urine sample
may be forced to endure involuntary use of catheters. Though the practice isn't
new, it has been criticized as invasive and a constitutional violation. Courtney
Bowie, legal director for the American Civil Liberties Union of South Dakota,
said the practice raises legal concerns. A man charged with felony drug
ingestion asked a judge to throw out evidence in his case. He claimed his
rights were violated because he was subjected to an involuntary catheter, after
police suspected drug use. Involuntary urine samples are permitted in South
Dakota with a signed court order  but have been challenged in  Indiana and Utah.

Tennessee

A DEADLY STORM OF WIND AND FLAME

Tennessee was a tinderbox. The Great Smoky Mountains National Park and the
resort town of Gatlinburg, Tenn., reopened to the public this month after
devastating wildfires caused 14 deaths and damaged about 2,500 buildings.
Prosecutors charged two teens with the blazes. The Sevier County fires came near
the end of a disastrous year for fires in Tennessee, where 1,427 blazes have
spanned 44,027 acres. The state and larger Southeast region are experiencing
severe and at times exceptional drought.

Texas

JUSTICE SCALIA DIES, LEAVING COURT VACUUM

U.S. Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, the loquacious leader of the Supreme
Court's conservative bloc and a leading force in American life for three
decades, was found dead at a Texas ranch in February, kicking off a fierce
battle over the future of the high court. After Scalia died, Senate Republicans
refused to consider President Obama's nomination of federal appeals court Judge
Merrick Garland as a replacement, and the remaining justices deadlocked 4-4 in
four cases. The court began hearing cases again in October but is stuck in a
holding pattern until a new justice (picked by President-elect Donald Trump) can
be confirmed and seated.

Utah

INDEPENDENT SHAKES UP PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION

Most Americans might not know his name, but Evan McMullin was the independent
candidate for president  some said could beat Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton
in Utah. He didn't. McMullin's unlikely surge in the state was a closely watched
story line. The former CIA officer is Mormon and had taken on more traditional
GOP stances than the party's standard-bearer. Had he locked down Utah, it would
have been the first time since 1968 that a non-major-party candidate won a
state.

Vermont

GROUND ZERO FOR FEELING THE BERN

Bernie Sanders, the surprisingly strong challenger for the Democratic
presidential nomination, won nearly two dozen states in the primaries before
endorsing Hillary Clinton.  Credit the Vermont senator's winning personality.
You tell us: Is the following exchange a real one he had with USA TODAY's Susan
Page or a Saturday Night Live skit?

Q: Is it conceivable you would run for president again?

Sanders: You know, it's conceivable that I may fly to the moon.

Q: With all respect, it's not conceivable that you may fly to the moon.

Sanders: If Elon Musk (founder of SpaceX) called me, I could go to Mars. See,
you're wrong. I'm going to make Mars a progressive planet. I'll be there first,
planting the flag. People don't think big enough! [Note: It's not SNL.]

Virginia

CHICKEN ABUSE VIDEO LEADS TO FIRINGS

Animal rights group Compassion Over Killing captured  video from inside several
Tyson Foods facilities in Virginia of workers stomping, kicking and suffocating
breeder chickens. In one of the videos, released in August, a  worker warned the
undercover investigator that "you can't let nobody see you do that" as he
stepped on a chicken's head, suffocating it. "You don't know if he's working for
the animal rights," he said.  Workers seen in the videos were fired, and all
live-poultry workers were retrained on the company's animal welfare policies,
according to Tyson.

Washington

AMAZON TAKES 'GRAB AND GO' TO A NEW LEVEL

Amazon -- the company that made leaving your house to shop optional -- has made
leaving your wallet at home optional, too. At least at its brick-and-mortar
store in Seattle,  which has neither cashiers nor self-checkout lines. How it
works: Shoppers tap their phone at a sensor by the store's entrance and are
identified by a camera. As they browse, cameras, microphones and sensors capture
the action. When shoppers leave, items get charged to their Amazon account. If
you don't live in Seattle, sorry. There are no plans to open more locations.

West Virginia

NEW CRISIS SURFACES: POISON IN THE WATER

The water crisis in Flint, Mich., renewed focus on the nation's water quality.
West Virginia's orphaned water systems perhaps best illustrate areas for
improvement in water testing and cleanliness. A USA TODAY Network investigation
found that more than a dozen of the state's utilities didn't have owners or
operators. Enforcement efforts for those utilities amounted to little more than
a continuous stream of warning letters as utilities failed to test year after
year. All the while, residents continued drinking untested -- and potentially
contaminated -- water. In Coal Mountain, W.Va., residents boil their water and
bleach their own supply.

Washington, D.C.

PREPARING FOR TRUMP NATION

D.C. isn't a state, but one could argue the District's story is the most
important of the year. Donald Trump, sweeping to victory as the 45th president
of the United States in a bitterly fought campaign that defied the polls,
pledged to "be a president for all Americans." A sharply divided nation can't
agree on whether a Trump White House will save  or destroy us, but it can agree
on this: The federal government is wasteful and is led by officials who would
say and do almost anything to get elected before abandoning their constituents
for powerful special interests. Whoa.

Wisconsin

JERIKA BOLEN'S MORTAL DECISION

Jerika Bolen's final months on Earth, and her heartbreaking decision to leave
it, made the nation fall in love with the 14-year-old girl from Appleton. Bolen
was thrust into the public eye when she announced she'd give up her fight with
Spinal Muscular Atrophy Type 2, a painful and incurable disease. Bolen's story
inspired people nationwide  to help grant her dying wish by hosting a prom in
her honor. Her decision wasn't without controversy. It reanimated a debate over
right-to-die issues. Disability rights groups asked authorities to investigate
Jerika's care, and those with her condition urged her to change her mind. But
Bolen followed through on her decision and died at a Wisconsin hospice in
September.

Wyoming

YELLOWSTONE'S PERILOUS YEAR

Wyoming's treasured Yellowstone National Park, which surpassed 4 million visits
last year, saw tragic deaths in 2016. In June, a 23-year-old Oregon man plunged
into a boiling, acidic spring. Yellowstone officials said Colin Nathaniel Scott
was trying to test the water so he and his sister could "hot pot," the act of
soaking in the park's thermal pools. In August, a park concession worker fell
off a cliff overlooking the Grand Canyon of the Yellowstone River. Park
officials said  Estefania Liset Mosquera Alcivar, 21, of Ecuador, was chatting
with a friend when she went over the canyon's edge.

Contributing: Mary Bowerman, Ed Brackett, Emily Brown, William Cummings, Alia E.
Dastagir, Matthew Diebel, Tim Gardner, Anne Godlasky, Josh Hafner, Mabinty
Quarshie, Cara Richardson, John Riley, Sean Rossman, Elizabeth Shell, Steph
Solis and Charles Ventura

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Alyssa Pointer, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

White: Rousey 'is ready to roll';
Ex-champ gets one-time pass on media silence

BYLINE: Martin Rogers, mjrogers@usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 534 words


Dana White says he thinks Ronda Rousey's self-imposed public exile is a result
of the fighter's "psychotic" competitive streak rather than any mental frailty
ahead of UFC 207 on Friday.

White, the Ultimate Fighting Championship president, said Rousey's refusal to
talk to the news media in the lead-up to her showdown with bantamweight champion
Amanda Nunes had caused him logistical headaches and insisted he would never
again allow her to sidestep promotional obligations.

However, White said Rousey's contribution to women's combat sports has been so
significant that she had earned a one-time opportunity to speak with her actions
rather than words.

"If you look at the amount of press that has been done by any fighter in the UFC
history, Ronda smokes everybody by a long shot," White said Wednesday. "This is
the way she wanted it. The only thing she cares about right now is focusing on
winning. She has done a lot of things for us. This is what she wanted, and we
gave it to her.

"It is definitely not ideal. Back in the day, Ronda would literally do anything
we asked her to do. So for her to ask for something like this, how can I say no
to that? This is a one-and-done. It doesn't open the floodgates; it doesn't
change anything. If someone doesn't show up for a press conference, I will pull
them from a card."

Rousey, a 2008 Olympic judo bronze medalist, won  her first 12 fights in mixed
martial arts, including six in the UFC in dominating fashion. In an
unpredictable sport, she was the closest thing to a sure bet, her signature
armbar unstoppable.

But the juggernaut came to a shuddering halt in November 2015, when former world
boxing champ Holly Holm knocked her out in Melbourne, Australia.

The reason Friday's bout will be one of the most watched of 2016 is partly due
to Rousey's popularity but also because of a fascination about whether she can
return to her past level of performance.

There is no question this fight might determine whether Rousey goes on to
re-establish herself as the queen of MMA or sees her stock slip further. Even
White conceded that he does not know what the future would hold for Rousey if
she lost to Nunes.

"I have talked to her every day," White said. "She is great. She is ready to
roll, she is ready to fight, and it is all good. Everybody knows that Ronda is
psychotically competitive.

"She is as good as I have ever seen her. She is in amazing shape. She is in
great spirits. She is fired up. She is like the old Ronda again. She just had to
deal with this thing the way she wanted to deal with it."

Before her fight with Holm, Rousey boldly spoke of her wish to retire undefeated
and possibly branch out into other areas of fighting, such as boxing or pro
wrestling.

Now she must try to weave a different narrative, one of redemption and
resilience and a refusal to be cowed by one, albeit stunning and spectacular,
setback.

"I think that all the greats throughout history, they've all lost," White said.
"Muhammad Ali lost. Mike Tyson lost. You go through the list of all the greatest
fighters who have ever lived, everybody has a loss. It is always interesting and
exciting to see if they can overcome and come back from a devastating loss, like
hers was."

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo John Locher, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

In dozens of little Flints, the water might be toxic

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 526 words


During the presidential campaign, one of Donald Trump's most effective lines
was, "It used to be, cars were made in Flint and you couldn't drink the water in
Mexico. Now, the cars are made in Mexico and you can't drink the water in
Flint."

Turns out, it's not just Flint where drinking the water may be hazardous to your
health.

A USA TODAY Network investigation, published this month, found that nearly 4
million Americans are drinking water that regulators have allowed to be either
so negligently tested for lead that officials have no idea what is in the water
or, when tests were done, high lead levels were ignored, often for years.

Dozens of lead-contaminated little Flints could be scattered across the country
in communities of a few hundred to a few thousand people served by tiny water
utilities with few resources and scant government oversight.

Just as in Flint, the Michigan city where lead contamination captured global
attention, state environmental regulators and federal Environmental Protection
Agency officials have had the data they need to pinpoint problems and warn
parents who may be inadvertently poisoning their children at the kitchen sink.

But  regulators instead chose to leave the public in the dark and allow children
to drink questionable tap water while they pursued a low-profile approach that
could stretch on for years. In some cases, regulators just gave up when they
couldn't find someone responsible for the tap water.

When USA TODAY Network reporters looked through state and federal data, it
wasn't hard to find communities where test results found many times the EPA's
limit on lead in water or where testing simply wasn't done. The Americans left
behind by environmental regulators, who sometimes treat lead contamination as a
minor issue left over from another time,  are quite often in Trump country.
Places like Ranger, Texas, East Mooringsport, La. and Coal Mountain, W.Va.

The EPA wouldn't comment to reporters who spent a year looking into the hidden
lead contamination problem, but the agency did release a new Drinking Water
Action Plan last month. The plan is mainly window dressing, heavy on proposals
for intergovernmental cooperation, ideas for new Web portals, education on best
practices and new metrics. What it lacks is urgency and action.

Back when Trump was running for president, he expressed his enthusiasm for
returning the EPA to its fundamental job of "crystal clear, clean water" and
clean air. Sure, Trump has also said he wants to shut down the EPA, or at least
slash its budget. And his choice of Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt to
lead the environmental agency is worrisome, considering that Pruitt has made a
career of suing the EPA.

But Trump's professed concern for clean water and clean air may point to an
opportunity for progress where eight years of a Democratic administration has
left millions of Americans in poor and rural areas with water systems that could
be tainted with toxic levels of lead.

The new president would be smart to look for opportunities to show his
"forgotten" voters that he won't forget them, even when it might mean  more
aggressive environmental oversight.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Mandel Ngan, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

5 female movie stars who inspired

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 650 words


In 2016, the film stars who left their mark seared who they are, and what they
represent, into our memory. Rather than close the curtain, they engaged with us,
revealed themselves to us and showed us their passions. They spoke plainly and
chose a side. USA TODAY's Andrea Mandell looks at  five female movie stars who
made a difference in our lives this year.

Carrie Fisher

It's impossible to start this list without hailing Carrie Fisher. The world lost
Princess-turned-General Leia on Tuesday at age 60, but she leaves behind a trove
of work, books and interviews to cling to, from musings on her fame to openness
on mental illness, aging and feminism. Fisher's revelations were as dishy as
they were educational. In her latest memoir, The Princess Diarist, Fisher
spilled the tea on her long-ago fling with Harrison Ford. And on her Force
Awakens tour she was frank about being forced to lose weight for Star Wars in
1976 -- and again for the franchise in 2015. "They want to hire part of me, not
all of me. They want to hire three-fourths, so I have to get rid of the fourth
somehow. The fourth can't be with me," she deadpanned to Stephen Colbert. "I
made a joke."

Shailene Woodley

In a year of political division, Woodley, 25, pushed forward in her activism,
first loudly backing Bernie Sanders and then joining a  coalition of thousands
to protest the Dakota Access Pipeline, pushing against a $3.8 billion  pipeline
they said would poison the groundwater and harm Native American sacred and
historical sites. The actress was  arrested and returned  on Thanksgiving.
"Simply feeding off the hype of a celebrity's arrest ain't going to save the
world," Woodley wrote  for Time. "But, standing together will."

Leslie Jones

This year should have been slam-dunk for the Saturday Night Live star. Instead
it was a nightmare. After the comedian, 49, scored a key role in the all-female
Ghostbusters movie, promotion for the film devolved in nasty misogynistic
attacks on Jones. On Twitter, Jones was subjected to  hate speech and racist
tweets comparing her to apes. And her highs continued with lows: NBC invited
Jones  to Rio de Janeiro to help (hilariously) cover the Olympic Games, but then
Jones was attacked again, when hackers released nude photos. Jones got the last
word at the Emmys. "Don't nobody want to know about boring Emmys secrets, OK?"
she said  to Ernst & Young accountants on stage. "But since you good at keeping
things safe, I got a job for you: my Twitter account." (Jones would later crush
it on social media, take a voice role in Sing and appear in our favorite
courtside photo of the year.) We tip our hat to her fortitude.

Renee Zellweger

First: In case you missed it, Bridget Jones's Baby was hilarious. Second, this
was the year Zellweger, 47,  told everyone fixated on her appearance what they
should do about it. (No one ever asks Colin Firth about aging.) The actress
wrote an essay about how we can do better than gossip about her face, and she
told USA TODAY the laser-like focus on  women's appearance is "a sad reflection
of the current conversation and what we value." And yes, the tearing down of
famous women online hurts. "I'm just a person. I don't protect myself from it.
You just get on with your day with hurt feelings or not,"  Zellweger said.

Naomie Harris

Moonlight is one of the most critically acclaimed films of the year, but it's
one Harris, 40, almost didn't make. The classically trained British actress had
long avoided roles she felt stereotyped African-American women and thought
playing the role of Paula, a crack addict in the projects in Moonlight, fit
squarely into that. "I actually had a lot of judgment about addiction because
I'm someone who doesn't drink alcohol, doesn't smoke -- I don't even drink
coffee," she said. But, she found, "I had to learn that everybody actually is
doing their very best with the resources they have at that time."

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo 2013 photo by TRACEY NEARMY, European Pressphoto Agency

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

MAKING WAVES

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 241 words


'Nothing Was the Same' after Drake posted an Instagram photo with Jennifer Lopez
on Wednesday. The two have stoked relationship buzz  all month, starting with
Drake attending  Lopez's All I Have concert residency in Las Vegas Dec. 10.
Drake then added fuel to the fire by sharing an image of the artists wrapped in
each other's arms on a couch, with the 'Views' rapper looking suggestively at
the camera. Lopez reposted the photo on her own account, prompting social media
users to debate whether the single musicians were an item or just trolling to
promote a future collaboration.

HOW WAS YOUR DAY?

BAD DAY

ARIANA GRANDE

Grande has had it. The singer took to Twitter late Tuesday night to highlight an
encounter she and her beau, 'The Way' collaborator Mac Miller, had with a fan
who commented on Grande's appearance and referred to her in a lewd nature.
Pointing to the incident as an example of the pervasive objectification of
women, Grande wrote: "We need to talk about these moments openly because they
are harmful."

THEY SAID WHAT? THE STARS' BEST QUOTES

"There is a sensitivity that will never change and an empathy that will never
change but how you deal with those feelings and where you let them take you,
that's an individualistic journey for anyone who struggles." -- Ryan Phillippe
to 'People' on  coping with depression

IT'S YOUR BIRTHDAY WHO'S CELEBRATING TODAY

Jon Voight is 78. Jude Law is 44. Diego Luna is 37.

Compiled by Jaleesa Jones

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Getty Images
WireImage

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LIFELINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

NVIDIA shares fall on short-seller's warning;
Citron Research tweets that stock price will 'head back to $90' in '17

BYLINE: Kevin McCoy, @kmccoynyc, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 322 words


Shares of NVIDIA (NVDA) fell Wednesday after a short-seller cautioned that the
chip maker for video games faces competition and might not maintain investor
results that have made it one of 2016's top financial market fliers.

The Santa Clara, Calif.-based company's stock fell almost 6.9%, closing at
$109.25 a share.

Through Tuesday's market close, NVIDIA shares had been up roughly 250% for the
year, making the stock one of the top performers in the S&P 500.

But the shares plunged after Citron Research, the newsletter of activist
short-seller Andrew Left, on Wednesday tweeted a warning that the stock price
would "head back to $90" in 2017. Left was among investors who in 2015
questioned the drug distribution and pricing policies of Valeant Pharmaceuticals
International, leading to a price plunge in the Canadian company's shares.

NVIDIA spokesman Robert Sherbin said the company declined to comment on the
prediction.

As support for the bearish financial forecast, a note with the Citron Research
tweet listed "6 risks that NVDA shareholders are discounting." Heading the list
was the contention that much of NVIDIA's growth has come from gaming and at the
expense of tech rival Advanced Micro Devices, "as opposed to new total
addressable markets."

The note also cited "significant competition from existing and emerging
players," including AMD and chip maker giant Intel, along with existing NVIDIA
customers Google and Apple. "As Intel competition enters the fray in mid-2017,
this competition should have a significant impact on NVDA's gross margins," the
note stated, before concluding, "Cautious Investing to All."

Nonetheless, NVIDIA has taken steps to expand its business by jumping into
virtual reality, a fast-growing tech frontier.

In July, the company debuted VR Funhouse, an immersive collection of
arcade-style mini-carnival games designed to showcase the possibilities of
virtual reality and NVIDIA's own technology.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo 2014 photo by Manu Fernandez, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             100 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Carrie Fisher, never at a loss for words

BYLINE: Bill Keveney, @billkev, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 383 words


Carrie Fisher is most widely known for her turn as Princess Leia in the hugely
popular Star Wars films, but the daughter of two entertainers -- actress Debbie
Reynolds and singer Eddie Fisher -- was also an acclaimed author renowned for
her trenchant wit.

Here's a sampling of memorable lines from Fisher:

From Twitter

"If my life wasn't funny, it would just be true, and that is unacceptable."
(2011)

"There's no room for demons when you're self-possessed." (2014)

From Fisher's 1987 semi-autobiographical novel, 'Postcards From the Edge':

"Instant gratification takes too long."

"I shot through my twenties like a luminous thread through a dark needle,
blazing toward my destination: Nowhere."

"Actually, I am a failed anorexic. I have anorexic thinking, but I can't seem to
muster the behavior."

"Life is a cruel, horrible joke and I am the punch line."

"You know how I always seem to be struggling, even when the situation doesn't
call for it?"

"Sometimes I feel like I've got my nose pressed up against the window of a
bakery, only I'm the bread."

From her 2008 memoirs, 'Wishful Drinking':

"Sometimes you can only find Heaven by slowly backing away from Hell."

"I feel I'm very sane about how crazy I am."

"I quote fictional characters, because I'm a fictional character myself!"

"Having waited my entire life to get an award for something, anything ... I now
get awards all the time for being mentally ill. It's better than being bad at
being insane, right? How tragic would it be to be runner-up for Bipolar Woman of
the Year?"

From her new memoirs, 'The Princess Diarist':

"Vultures are difficult to charm unless you're off somewhere rotting in the
noonday sun. Casually rotting ... a glib cadaver."

"Someone has to stand still for you to love them. My choices are always on the
run."

"I act like someone in a bomb shelter trying to raise everyone's spirits."

"Movies were meant to stay on the screen, flat and large and colorful, gathering
you up into their sweep of story, carrying you rollicking along to the end, then
releasing you back into your unchanged life. But this movie ('Star Wars')
misbehaved. It leaked out of the theater, poured off the screen, affected a lot
of people so deeply that they required endless talismans and artifacts to stay
connected to it."

SOURCE Goodreads.com; USA TODAY research

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo 2008 photo by Todd Plitt, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             101 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Riding shotgun: Her French bulldog, Gary;
Fisher's therapy dog and faithful friend had own Instagram account

BYLINE: Lorena Blas, @byLorenaBlas, USA TODAY Life

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 354 words


He followed  her everywhere. And she loved to talk about him.

He  would be Gary, the French bulldog, and she his owner,  Carrie Fisher.

Gary, a striking ball of brindle-colored fur with pointy ears and  white chest
markings, is a petite but sturdy dog who  strutted with Fisher down many red
carpets.

He was with her at this year's White House Correspondents' Association Dinner in
April.

He was at a screening of Star Wars: The Force Awakens in December 2015. The
actress, who played Princess Leia in the Star Wars films, described the
experience: "It was very loud, so he couldn't go to sleep and he watched it,
panting. So I think that's a good review. The animal world will like it."

According to People.com and TMZ, Gary was with Fisher when she had a heart
attack on a flight from London to Los Angeles on Friday. Later that day, he was
seen with Fisher's daughter, Billie Lourd, at the L.A.  hospital where the
actress was taken by ambulance.

Fisher, who has been open about living with bipolar disorder, acquired Gary as a
therapy dog to help with her condition.

In 2013, when the Frenchie was 1, Fisher told the Herald-Tribune in Sarasota,
Fla.: "Gary is like my heart. Gary is very devoted to me, and that calms me
down. He's anxious when he's away from me."

The animal-rights organization PETA said in a statement that Fisher  "may be
best remembered for her iconic role as Princess Leia, but we fondly remember her
for her devotion to her dog, Gary."

Gary had been a popular subject of socal-media posts by Fisher and Lourd. The
dog had developed enough of a following that the Gary Fisher (@garyfisher)
Instagram account was created in 2015.

A post from last  week  shows Gary and Fisher taking a break on the set of
Catastrophe, an Amazon series in which the actress appeared (she was in London
filming the third season).

Oh, the places they went together: London, Rome, Montreal and Cannes, France.

They were inseparable -- at home and abroad.

And so, while die-hard Star Wars fans are mourning the  loss of their beloved
Princess Leia, one four-legged furry canine is missing his beloved mom, Carrie
Fisher. #garyloveshismom

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Neil P. Mockford, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             102 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Chinese hackers strike U.S. law firms;
Prosecutors allege traders stole merger info, profited from it

BYLINE: Kevin McCoy, @kmccoynyc, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 453 words


Chinese traders hacked into the computer systems of U.S. law firms that handle
mergers, then used the data for insider trading that generated more than $4
million in illegal profits, federal prosecutors and regulators charged Tuesday.

The suspects in the alleged criminal marriage of cyber-hacking and securities
fraud targeted at least seven law firms and other entities that handle the
sensitive and often lucrative legal work of advising firms pursuing mergers and
acquisitions, according to a 13-count superseding indictment unsealed in New
York.

Operating from April 2014 through late 2015, the alleged scheme ultimately
gained access to secret information from two law firms about pending corporate
deals, prosecutors charged. The suspects allegedly prized, targeted and gained
access to the emails of attorneys directly involved in the deals. Prosecutors
charged they exchanged a list of partners who performed such work at one of the
firms before hacking into that firm's computer system.

Using that information, the suspects allegedly bought stocks in the companies
involved in the deals and ultimately sold the investments at a profit when the
mergers or acquisitions were announced.

Preet Bharara, the U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York, in a
formal statement said the allegations spotlight the vulnerability of
highly-sensitive law firm records to the efforts of determined cyber criminals.

The Securities and Exchange Commission filed a parallel civil lawsuit that seeks
an asset freeze aimed at preventing the alleged suspects from cashing in on
their alleged trading gains.

SEC investigators used trading surveillance and analysis to identify the alleged
scheme, which was carried out through the use of both U.S. and offshore
accounts, said Stephanie Avakian, acting director of the SEC's enforcement
division.

The defendants include Iat Hong, a resident of Macau who was arrested in Hong
Kong on Christmas Day. He is now being held pending extradition to the U.S.
Prosecutors identified Hong's alleged co-conspirators as Bo Zhen and Chin Hung,
and said they remain at large. All three are charged with conspiracy to commit
securities fraud, wire fraud, computer intrusion and other criminal counts.

The deals outlined in the charges included the prospective 2014 acquisition of
InterMune, a Brisbane, Calif.-based biotech company. Although the contemplated
acquisition was never completed, InterMune ultimately agreed to an $8.3 billion
transaction with Swiss biotech giant Roche in August 2014.

The suspects allegedly cashed in on the announcement, selling 18,000 InterMune
shares they had acquired 12 days before the deal became public for roughly
$380,000 in profits, the indictment charges.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Spencer Platt, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             103 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

After shaky start, Apple's new AirPods work great

BYLINE: Ed Baig, ebaig@usatoday.com, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 333 words


I was rather concerned when the sound coming through a set of AirPods kept
stuttering and dropping out as I attempted to listen to music wirelessly on my
iPhone 7 Plus.

Apple's new wireless $159 earbuds had been delayed for months, after all, with
no real explanation as to why, and now I finally had a pair  supposedly ready
for prime time. Except, it wasn't.

Apple made a huge deal about its  wireless headphones  because the company
ditched the long-standard 3.55mm headphone jack with the iPhone 7 in favor of
its Lightning connector. That meant either employing the adapter that came with
the phone to use your own wired headphones, using the wired EarPods with a
Lightning connector that  came with the phone or relying on wireless Bluetooth
headphones.

I informed Apple about my snags with the AirPods, and the company rushed out the
replacement pair I've been using on vacation. I'm happy to say they've been
working great.

Pairing them to the iPhone couldn't be easier. I simply removed the AirPods from
their compact dental-floss-like charge case, tapped the iPhone screen and it
recognized them right away. No additional pairing was required when I listened
later via a Mac. It took a bit more effort, but I also paired and used them with
a Google Pixel phone.

The charging case holds multiple charges. Apple says you'll get about five hours
of battery life off a single charge.

The promise of wireless headphones, of course, is no more wires to fuss with or
get tangled. And the AirPods passed their most important test: Sound is
splendid. Moreover, the one-size-fits-all AirPods stayed in my ears, and the
ears of my wife (who was equally impressed with the audio quality). If you do
pull one out of your ear, the sound pauses, then resumes when you put it back
in. By double-tapping, you can summon and talk to Siri.

I do think  AirPods are somewhat dorky looking. But sound and comfort matter
most. And assuming no repeat of the issues I encountered with the prior pair,
they're worth the wait.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             104 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

What I learned after crashing four drones;
Here are five rules everyone should know -- and three bits of advice

BYLINE: Jefferson Graham, @jeffersongraham, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 1034 words


I spent much of 2016 lusting after drones. I now own one and couldn't be
happier.

I have drool-worthy footage and photos: morning shots from the beach, cliff-side
views of the Pacific Ocean and, most important, killer aerial views from a
recent trip to Hawaii.

But, buyer beware. I also crashed four drones in the research for this article.
So let me pass on some hard lessons I picked up along the way.

Spoiler alert: My drone purchase was the $999 DJI Mavic Pro, a drone so small it
fits into (large) pants pockets, and better yet, snugly in my camera bag. It's
also sturdy and well-designed. This year, I also tested the $1,100 GoPro Karma,
since recalled, Yuneec Breeze ($399), and Hover Camera Passport ($599). I
crashed each one of them except for the Hover.

Reason: operator error, I believe, and not being as familiar with the unit as I
needed to be.

More on the specific drones in a second and why the Mavic Pro turned out to be
the best purchase, at least for me.

Let's start with a quick recap on what you need to know.

FAA rules

Drones need to be registered to the Federal Aviation Administration. They are
legal for personal use, but for professionals, you need to be licensed.

Here's how Romeo Durscher, the director of education for drone manufacturer DJI,
describes professional use:

"If your intent is to sell the image you produce from the drone, then you're a
pro," he says. "If it's just to create an image for yourself, you're a
hobbyist."

That opens up many ambiguities: What if you post a video of your work on YouTube
as a hobbyist with no intention of selling your work, the video takes off, gets
a million views, and people start asking you to do drone work for them? And you
accept?

You weren't a pro then, but now you are.

The easiest way to deal with this question is to apply for a Part 107 waiver
from the FAA, which enables you to fly professionally. Be prepared to study, he
adds.

The test takes two hours to complete. The study handbook is online at the FAA
website, and you need just 70% correct answers to pass, he says.

5 things to know

For pros or hobbyists, here are five key rules to keep in mind when flying:

Don't fly within 5 miles of an airport.

You're not allowed to go any higher than 400 feet.

When in flight, keep the drone within your line of sight.

Flying a drone over people's heads, moving vehicles or at a crowded stadium are
no-nos.

Many cities have an outright ban on drone use in city limits.

For drone newbies, take the new toy out to a big, wide-open space, where it's
just you and nature, and learn how to operate the unit there before advancing to
somewhere more complicated. Early mornings are a great time to go out there and
test.

Most drones (including the Mavic) operate via a video game-like controller that
directs the drone into the skies, left, right, up and down. The Mavic controller
connects to a smartphone to act as a viewfinder, operated via an app. Get
comfortable with the controls of the drone controller before you take it
somewhere more complicated.

Durscher recommends finding a local drone flying club or user group to help get
at ease and seek advice from the members.

Many of the video clips shown online are great examples of things that shouldn't
be tried, like shooting scenes of a busy, crowded urban street (where drone use
is probably not OK) or over historic buildings in tourist areas.

Many wedding photographers use the drone at the ceremony, soaring over the
guests and capturing the bride and groom from above. How to handle something
like that and stay within the rules? Durscher has a great answer: Fly the unit
from the side of the ceremony, where you're not directly over the heads of
guests, and you'll still get the sweeping overhead shot.

I began my drone tests early in the morning, at the beach, when there was no one
around. This helped me get my sea legs. I eventually flew the Mavic Pro on
vacation in more challenging settings: up and down a waterfall in Hawaii, into a
sunrise, across lush green fields and over a scenic overlook. That was
post-crash flying, however.

The only issue I encountered was the battery going down. More on that in a
minute.

My mistakes:

No. 1: Trusting the dreaded "return to launch" feature

Both GoPro, DJI and Yuneec all told me that once I set the drone up into the
skies, if there was any concern, just click the return button and it would come
safely back.

The unit first went really, really high  -- higher than I would have flown them
-- to try and find the launch spot, and then miscalculated when coming back
down. The GoPro Karma crashed into my front door, the Breeze on my back porch
and the Mavic a good 200 yards away from the original spot, into the side of a
restaurant.

(DJI has since told me to use this feature only when all else fails and that
manual landings are always more accurate. The Karma drone has since been
recalled due to an error that saw it suddenly losing power and falling from the
skies.)

The crashes from the Breeze came because this unit, bargain-priced at $399,
simply didn't respond to the commands on the controller and went its own way.
The $599 Hover Camera did as it was told.

No. 2: Forgetting to focus and set exposure

On the Mavic Pro, you need to set focus and exposure before you take off by
clicking a green window on the controller.

Once in the skies, I would adjust the exposure (yellow window) constantly. This
came after watching footage that was fuzzy and too bright.

No. 3: Underestimating battery needs

As mentioned, the batteries for drones don't last very long. The Hover and
Breeze go for just more than 10 minutes, and the Mavic Pro is 20 minutes.

That sounds pretty short, but then again, 20 minutes is one long shot. Still,
you'll need to spring for the extra batteries if you're going to own one. (I
bought three for the Mavic Pro and am glad I did.) That, and a really big memory
card, like 64 GB or higher. You're shooting 4K video footage in the skies,
remember.

When you return home for the day, you'll need to charge a lot of devices: in my
case, the Mavic, the controller and the smartphone that acts as your viewer.

But while you're doing so, you'll be looking at some amazing footage that is
unlike anything you've probably ever picked up.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo photos by Jefferson Graham, usa today

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             105 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

As pubs struggle, British bitter over beer tax

BYLINE: Benjamin PlackettSpecial for USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 514 words


Beer-loving Britons are heading to local pubs for festive tipples as part of the
holidays, even as many Londoners fume that their already pricey pint will cost
still more in 2017.

A new city tax on business that takes effect next year will rise from an average
of about 10% to more than 12%, boosting the price of a pint by more than 40% in
some pubs, according to business tax research firm CVS.

"It does outrage me -- the premium on a pint in London compared to buying it in
a supermarket is already too high," said Farhud Manzoori, 29, a trader for Nobel
Group, as he sipped ale at the Roebuck pub in South London. "It means you have
to use a £20 bill (about $25) to pay for two pints. It's already too expensive."

According to the Good Pub Guide, the average cost of a pint in the United
Kingdom tops $4, but in central London, the price can creep past $6. Average
prices in the USA are about the same, according to the website pintprice.com.

Manzoori and his friend Alex Hitter, 24, a graduate student, are tavern regulars
and fear that the rising cost of a pint is another financial squeeze in one of
Europe's most expensive places to live.

They call the tax an attack on a great institution.

"The pub is the chief arena for socializing in the U.K.," Hitter said. "It's
casual fun, but it still feels like you're doing something despite basically
sitting in a living room."

Making ends meet is increasingly tough for owners of pubs, which are closing at
a rate of 27 a week nationwide.

London alone loses about 500 pubs a year, as they fail to compete with trendy
cocktail bars and offers of cheap booze from supermarket chains, according to
the Campaign for Real Ale.

At the same time, the United Kingdom has among the highest beer taxes in Europe,
about 63cents a pint.

Brigid Simmonds, CEO of the British Beer and Pub Association, said the higher
tax could force even more pubs to shutter their doors.

"Independent pubs are going to find it difficult," Simmonds said.

Simmonds pushes for the government to soften the blow by reducing the beer tax
rate from what it is now, along with giving a rebate on business taxes for all
pubs.

"Pubs are important to local communities," she said, "We think pubs should be
treated differently."

Some pubs that have been serving pints for centuries are at risk for the
greatest tax increases because of their central locations, popularity and high
sales.

The revered, centuries-old Anchor, for example, has been a brothel, a tavern and
a chapel.

It sits on the south bank of the River Thames, just around the corner from the
Globe Theatre, where William Shakespeare's plays were performed. The bard
himself was a regular drinker there, according to lore.

The pub will have to cough up an extra $182,000 a year when the new taxes begin.

Simmonds said the increase also will hit tourists, who love going to British
pubs.

"We want you to keep on visiting, but you may have to pay a bit for your pint,"
she said.

Leah Hardiker, 26, an accountant and a regular at the Anchor, isn't prepared to
accept that.

"I come here quite a lot," she said, "so it's not good news."

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Chris Ratcliffe, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             106 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Bradley was set up to fail at Swansea;
England inhospitable to American coach

BYLINE: Martin Rogers, mjrogers@usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 416 words


Bob Bradley didn't want to be known as the first American coach to lead an
English Premier League soccer team, but as the ax fell on his time in charge of
Swansea City on Tuesday, his ultimate demise came with a star-spangled theme.

There were many things Bradley couldn't do after taking over at Swansea in
October. He couldn't extract greater effort from the aging and underwhelming
group of players he inherited. He couldn't arrest the malaise and gloom that has
long surrounded the club. He couldn't come up with a tactical plan to stop his
team from getting consistently smashed on the road.

And, ultimately, he couldn't make everyone forget he was American.

Soccer is the most global of sports, yet there are generalizations and
prejudices permeating the game, perhaps nowhere more so than in the English
system, where the game was invented and whose followers still believe they hold
the blueprint to how things should be done.

American players are no longer blighted by assumptions based on nationality, but
this country's coaches are. Bradley, who led the U.S. national team to the Round
of 16 in the 2010 World Cup, was a victim of circumstance as much as anything.

He wasn't going to get a job at a stable team near the top of the Premier
League, because Americans don't even get considered for those jobs, let alone
have the chance to accept them.

Having traveled far and wide in the hunt for knowledge and experience, Bradley
remained a deeply ambitious man who wished to improve himself. So he was left
with no choice but say yes to Swansea, taking a bad job with a bad team and
setting himself up for what was a bad outcome.

Swansea's players had seen the squad fall into disarray under disorganized
former manager Francesco Guidolin and had little willingness to fight and scrap
for survival for a fresh coach they didn't know.

They managed two wins in 11 games during Bradley's time in charge, conceded 18
goals and lost five of six on the road, capped by a 4-1 defeat at home to West
Ham United on Monday.

A day later, Bradley was summoned to meet the owners and was gone, his dream of
coaching at the highest club level in Europe perhaps extinguished with it. If he
wants them, he will have opportunities aplenty back in the USA, especially with
the swath of new Major League Soccer teams coming into the league.

As for Europe's most esteemed league, though, it is a closed door. For Bradley,
and likely for any other enterprising American coach with lofty aspirations in
the near future.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Christopher Lee, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             107 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Hoffman's Hall selection a matter of time

BYLINE: Gabe Lacques, @gabelacques, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 946 words


USA TODAY Sports is examining the most intriguing cases on baseball's 2017 Hall
of Fame ballot ahead of the Jan. 18  results.

Today: Trevor Hoffman.

In the last 25 years, three men have held baseball's all-time saves record.
Trevor Hoffman slots in between Lee Smith and Mariano Rivera, both in line of
succession and Hall of Fame viability.

This will be Smith's 15th and final year on the ballot, and he's expected to
fall well short of the required 75% needed for election, his support dropping to
34% in 2016 after a peak of 51% in 2012.

Rivera, the New York Yankees legend, is widely expected to gain Hall entrance on
his first ballot in 2019; various pundits have suggested he might be the first
unanimous choice in history.

Then there's Hoffman, whose 601 saves were eclipsed by Rivera's 652 and who
played most of his career with the San Diego Padres, reducing his exposure
relative to Rivera, a TV fixture almost every October from 1996 to 2013.

Hoffman did not have the postseason opportunities or success Rivera enjoyed.
Yet Hoffman, who earned 67% of the vote in his first year on the ballot, hardly
took a back seat to Rivera when it came to late-inning effectiveness. In fact,
you can almost make a case that a vote for Rivera should equal a vote for
Hoffman.

The case for: Hoffman is bidding to become the sixth reliever inducted, albeit
the first who spent nearly his entire career as a ninth-inning guy. Few
performed that hyperspecialized role as long or as well as Hoffman.

He had 552 of his 601 saves in 16 years with the Padres. A brief falling-out
with the front office sent him to the Milwaukee Brewers for whom, at 41, he
converted 37 of 41 saves and made his seventh and final All-Star team in 2009.

Hoffman had nine seasons of at least 40 saves, capped by his 53-save masterpiece
in 1998. Hoffman finished second in Cy Young Award balloting that year, buoyed
by a 98% save rate (he blew one chance) and career-best 0.85 WHIP (walks plus
hits per inning pitched).

And it is in those rate stats where Hoffman stacks up favorably with Rivera.
Hoffman has a career 1.06 WHIP, 9.4 strikeouts per nine innings and a save
percentage of 89%.

Rivera spent one season as a starter and long reliever and another as a setup
man. If we isolate his seasons spent as a closer, from 1997 to 2013, those
numbers are strikingly similar to Hoffman's: a 0.97 WHIP, 8.1 strikeouts per
nine innings and, perhaps most important, an 89% conversion. In an odd
coincidence, both samples come in 1,035 games.

Hoffman's changeup was the West Coast answer to Rivera's cutter, perhaps not as
devastating as Rivera's signature pitch, particularly against left-handers, but
beguiling enough to punch out 1,133 batters over 1,0891/3 innings.

The case against: Once again, Hoffman is aiming to join a fraternity in which
the only members were more than just ninth-inning specialists. Hoffman recorded
more than three outs in just 21% of his 1,035 appearances. The most recent
reliever to earn induction, Goose Gossage in 2008, went more than an inning in
53% of his 466 outings spent as a full-time reliever. Hoffman stacks up better
against his modern rival: Despite the prevailing narrative that Rivera often
pitched one-plus innings, he recorded more than three outs in 24% of his
appearances as Yankees closer.

While his changeup was often a great equalizer, there were times Hoffman was
hittable. He gave up 100 home runs in his career, including three seasons giving
up  10; Rivera gave up 62 as a closer.

And while the often-rebuilding Padres didn't allow Hoffman to frequent the
October stage like some of his contemporaries, he had his share of stumbles in
the spotlight.

San Diego's first playoff appearance in 12 years ended when Hoffman gave up a
tiebreaking two-run homer to the St. Louis Cardinals' Brian Jordan in Game 3 of
the 1996 National League Division Series.

Two years later, any chance the Padres had of getting back in the 1998 World
Series ended in Game3 when Hoffman gave up a three-run, eighth-inning homer to
Yankees third baseman Scott Brosius, turning a 3-2 lead into a 5-3 deficit.

In 2007, the Padres season ended in Game 163 when Hoffman couldn't hold a
two-run lead in the 13th inning at Coors Field, yielding three runs to the
Colorado Rockies in a 9-8 loss in a one-game playoff for the NL wild card.

Lookalikes: Baseball-Reference's similarity score puts Hoffman in predictable
company -- Smith, Rivera and Billy Wagner, who remains on the Hall ballot with
Hoffman. Other metrics aren't as kind. Rivera obliterates Hoffman in Wins Above
Replacement 57.1 to 28.4, and Hoffman barely outpoints Wagner (28.1) and trails
Smith (29.6).

X factors: That Hoffman earned two-thirds support in his ballot debut augurs
exceptionally well for his eventual inclusion. Always affable with the media, he
remains an ambassador for the game in San Diego and across the major leagues, as
the NL's reliever of the year award now bears his name. He was named on 74% of
the first 109 2017 ballots tracked by Hall vote watchdog Ryan Thibodaux,
although non-public voters tend to be less charitable.

Consensus: It certainly appears to be a matter of when, and not if, for
Hoffman's day in Cooperstown. While many voters are averse to supporting
relievers -- and it would be patently unfair to see a flood of them inducted --
Hoffman, like Rivera, is a special case. His 601 saves are an awful lot, a mark
only one active player -- Francisco Rodriguez, who has 430 -- has a shot at.

Even if the bullpen paradigm eventually shifts back to placing higher value on
multiple-inning guys, there's no denying Hoffman was one of the best of his era.
For that, he'll receive the ultimate recognition.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo LENNY IGNELZI, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             108 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

More than 40 people shot in Chicago over weekend;
Most of the fatalities were gang-related, according to police

BYLINE: Melanie Eversley, @melanieeversley, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 650 words


More than 40 people were shot over the weekend in Chicago, 12 of whom died.

The city has been in the national spotlight for gun violence increasing in
recent years. The Chicago Police Department said in a statement Monday night
that the majority of the shootings were attacks or retaliation during holiday
gatherings by gang members.

"Ninety percent of those fatally wounded had gang affiliations, criminal
histories and were pre-identified by the department's strategic subject
algorithm as being a potential suspect or victim of gun violence," the statement
said.

The Chicago Police Department confiscated 45 guns from city streets, starting
Friday, according to the statement.

The  Midwestern city recently experienced its most violent month in more than 20
years. Chicago recorded 92 murders in August, its deadliest month since June
1993. The city has reported more than 100 more murders this year than New York
City and Los Angeles combined, according to the department's data.

Gary Slutkin, founder of the Chicago-based, non-profit group Cure Violence, said
part of the problem is that his nationally recognized organization experienced a
drastic reduction in state funding two years ago when Illinois made
across-the-board cuts.

His organization treats the gun violence epidemic as a public health crisis, he
said. It has been effective in employing people who have experienced gun
violence to detect those in their communities who might be in danger of slipping
into that life -- and in mentoring them and pulling them back from the brink,
said Slutkin, a professor of epidemiology and global health at the University of
Illinois-Chicago School of Public Health.

"A lot of individuals and organizations are calling us, and we're trying to
figure out now how to re-engage in 2017 as fast as we can," Slutkin said.

The organization, which launched in 2000, used to operate out of 18 districts,
Slutkin said. That figure has dropped to  one, he said.

In 2015 and 2016, the only community to maintain a Cure Violence operation was
the only Chicago district where shootings and killings declined, according to
police data cited by the organization.

Tamar Manasseh, founder of the Chicago-based Mothers Against Senseless Killings,
or MASK, said the weekend uptick, comparable to  a weekend in July in which
Chicago saw 55 shootings, could be due to hidden depression experienced by
people in challenging circumstances.

"What I've learned is that ... some people honestly lack the courage to take a
gun and put it to their head and pull the trigger, but what they'll do is
they'll take a gun and go out and kill somebody else," Manasseh said. She said
these people say to themselves, "I don't want to be here, but I sure want to
make sure that someone else wants to kill me."

Manasseh, a rabbinical student and mother of an 18-year-old and 20-year-old,
founded MASK to help make the streets safer for her children.

The organization works by employing people in the community who know the
challenges of living there and can connect people with the services they need.

Manasseh said the weekend violence occurred because of the usual increase in
stress and sadness that people experience over the holidays, but those in power
need to target and engage in the problem, so they can understand what is
happening and begin to fix it, she said.

"This is not a drive-through problem," she said. "This is not a problem that
we're going to fix by driving through and marching through. You have to become a
part of it, get in it and see it in order to fix it."

Regarding the violence over the holiday weekend, the Police Department said in
its statement, "Detectives are making progress in several incidents. So far,
multiple people of interest are being questioned, and we are following up on
some promising leads The violence primarily occurred in areas with historical
gang conflicts on the South and West Side of Chicago."

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             109 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

For early enrollees, getting acclimated key

BYLINE: Jim Halley, @jimhalley, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 8C

LENGTH: 547 words


Enrolling early in college is no longer a trend for top college football
players, it's a growing tsunami.

Tim Tebow went early to Florida in 2006 and played on the Gators' national
championship team that season, starting a wave of early-enrollee quarterbacks.
At the Under Armour All-America Game, however, players at every position are
making the jump.

Stanford Samuels III, a defensive back from Flanagan (Pembroke Pines, Fla.),
will play in the Under Armour game Jan. 1. Two days later, he'll be lifting
weights and taking classes at Florida State. He already knows who his roommate
will be -- fellow early enrollee Cyrus Fagan, a safety from Mainland (Daytona
Beach, Fla.).

"Right after this, I'll be heading to Tallahassee," Samuels said. "My deciding
to go early was based on things I need to work on. I need time to put on weight
and learn the playbook and put myself in position to start my freshman year.
Just getting familiar with everything. When you come in at the regular time, you
have to get accustomed to a lot of things, because the season is about to start.

"When you come in the winter, the first couple of weeks, it's pretty much
workouts and class, so it gives you a chance to get used to everything and get
in the flow instead of having everything pushed at you at once."

Many of the players who transfer to IMG Academy (Bradenton, Fla.), which was the
No.2 team in the USA TODAY Sports' Super 25 football rankings this season, see
themselves as being on the fast path to college. IMG spokesman Johnny Esfeller
said the Ascenders have at least 23 players who are enrolling early in college.

That includes Marcus Williamson, a defensive back who transferred from
Westerville (Ohio) South to IMG last January. He's already back home, and after
playing in the Under Armour game, he'll head to Columbus, Ohio, to take classes
at Ohio State.

"After I left IMG, I went home and hit the weights hard," Williamson said. "I
was at IMG for two semesters. You want to get into that college weight program
and play spring ball and learn to compete at that level. It's a tradeoff. If you
go early, you're missing on your senior prom and that last bit of high school."

Trey Smith, a first-team American Family Insurance All-USA offensive lineman
from University School of Jackson (Jackson, Tenn.), says he's a little beat up
heading into the Under Armour game. That won't stop him from enrolling early at
Tennessee on Jan. 7.

"There are so many advantages from an educational standpoint," he said. "In
three years, I'll graduate and then my master's will be paid for. Going early
was more of a business decision. I know what goals I want to accomplish, and if
I go early, I'll get it done."

Brock Wright, a tight end from Cy-Fair (Cypress, Texas), is one of five early
enrollees at Notre Dame, which matches the school's highest total, set last
season. He said he's not concerned about going to South Bend, Ind., on Jan. 15,
even if the temperature there likely will be 65 to 70 degrees colder than
Orlando.

"College is a good time to get some new experience," he said. "I might as well
get used to cold weather for a few years since I'll probably come back to Texas
after I graduate. The last time I saw snow was when I took my official visit up
there and it was 20 degrees and snowing."

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             110 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Ohio State, Clemson have much in common

BYLINE: Paul Myerberg, @paulmyerberg, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 8C

LENGTH: 899 words


To find Urban Meyer on Clemson's campus, simply don a hardhat and make your way
to the Tigers' new football facility, a gleaming, $55 million base of operations
set for its ribbon cutting in late January, shortly before national signing day.

Head to the second floor and turn right to find his words emblazoned on the
walls: As the color analyst for the ESPN broadcast of the Tigers matchup with
Auburn on Sept. 14, 2011, Meyer called Clemson "an exceptional, special place,"
quoted remarks that pop even among the facility's many bells and whistles --
including, among other quirks, a putt-putt course, of all things.

It was during that 2011 season that Meyer, in a one-year break from coaching,
scoured the country in search of new tricks. In Clemson, he found one prototype
for the program he would eventually build at Ohio State.

"I compare programs all the time," he said. "I like to study winners."

On offense and on defense, in how the programs approach social media tactics, in
recruiting and in player development -- not to mention how each has found almost
unmatched success -- Clemson and Ohio State share common traits and themes,
similarities that will be on bright display in the Fiesta Bowl on Saturday.

The Buckeyes have "a very deep respect" for Clemson, co-offensive coordinator Ed
Warinner said. "They've done a tremendous job. We're always pushing the envelope
to grow on offense. We'll watch film of anyone that's doing really cool stuff
that we think can tie into what we do. Clemson's one of those offenses."

Imitation is the most sincere form of flattery, after all.

"There's a lot of similarities," Clemson defensive coordinator Brent Venables
said. "There's more similarities than not."

Along with Oregon and Auburn, the Tigers' offensive philosophy is fingerprinted
upon Ohio State's system, most clearly in how the Buckeyes use their tight ends.
Looking to add a wrinkle to his offense during his one-year coaching sabbatical,
Meyer was struck by how former Clemson offensive coordinator Chad Morris
tinkered with the position and has implemented a similar concept.

Compared to how the position was used during Meyer's stint at Florida, the tight
end has become a key tool for creating mismatches. A defense that views one of
Ohio State's tight ends as a wide receiver will be at a disadvantage against the
run; an opponent that defends the tight end with a linebacker will be
handicapped in the passing game.

On a grander scale, the offensive similarities can be found in tempo, formations
and spacing, to a point where replicating the Tigers' attack during the team's
bowl practices -- in theory, if not in action -- came easily to Ohio State's
scout-team offense, Warinner said.

"You notice it at practice, when you're out there and the second offense is
going against our defense running Clemson's stuff," he said. "You see all the
similarities."

There's a common mentality on defense: Clemson, like Ohio State, wants to "deny
every pass, every pass, deny, deny every run," Meyer said.

"Their athletes, their formations, their schemes are obviously a variation of
ours and of other teams," Clemson linebacker Ben Boulware said.

But the programs' parallels run deeper than on-field schematics. Meyer and Ohio
State studied and borrowed from Clemson's approach to social media, Meyer said,
because he thought the Tigers did it better than any other team in college
football.

"Our guys tell me we're No. 1 now," he said. "We hired a guy just for that
reason."

Both teams recruit at a level nearly unparalleled in the Football Bowl
Subdivision. And three or four years after these prospects arrive on campus,
both programs are headliners at the NFL draft: Three Ohio State players were
selected in the top 10 last spring, for example, and four Clemson defenders were
taken among the top 60 picks.

Both programs were forced to reload as a result this season, and both, in a way,
were able to exceed expectations. Ohio State was viewed as too young and too
inexperienced to make a run at the national championship. Clemson's defense was
viewed as a potential Achilles' heel, then the Tigers started playing football,
and all concerns were forgotten.

And it would be incorrect to assume this is a one-way street, with Ohio State
borrowing from Clemson's blueprint while the Tigers blaze their own path. "We're
all copycats," said Venables, and Clemson's no different -- with coaches
unearthing small patterns over long hours in the film room, including time spent
evaluating the Buckeyes' methodology.

Given the thread that ties these two powers, it's only reasonable that each has
carved out space atop the heap. Clemson and Ohio State have lost a combined
eight games since the start of the 2014 season with three conference
championships and four College Football Playoff berths, drawing within a whisper
of Alabama, the sport's gold standard.

So forget about the element of surprise -- Ohio State knows what Clemson's about
and vice versa, since each sees a variation on itself in the other. That means
the Fiesta Bowl might be determined in simple terms: The winner will simply
execute better than the loser.

"There's definitely similarities," Boulware said. "But at the end of the day,
it's football. I don't really worry about the bells and the whistles. They're
going to do what they'll do. We know that. We've got a good idea and a good game
plan in place to hopefully slow that down."

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Joshua S. Kelly, USA TODAY Sports USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             111 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Huskies' Ross finds it's better to receive

BYLINE: Dan Wolken, @danwolken, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 8C

LENGTH: 867 words


On every football recruiting site there's a category of player called "ATH,"
shorthand for "athlete," with no irony whatsoever. These players often represent
the best and worst of the recruiting process: the promise of versatility and
speed every team wants in this era of offensive football but the acknowledgment
they lack a defined position and often development of a particular skill set.

Like everyone else labeled as a four-star "athlete," John Ross signed with
Washington in 2013 with  fanfare and the expectation that he eventually would
figure it out.

Only Ross didn't figure it out, not before two years of constant position
changes, crises of confidence and an anterior cruciate ligament tear in his left
knee that sidelined him for the  2015 season.

"Kind of shaky, up and down," Ross said Tuesday when asked to describe the early
part of his career at Washington. "Probably inconsistent."

Ross didn't exactly come out of nowhere to become one of the nation's most
productive receivers this year, but it would have been hard to see 76 catches,
1,122 yards and Alabama coach Nick Saban calling him "probably the best receiver
we've played all year" in advance of the College Football Playoff semifinal at
the Peach Bowl.

"He's just got some God-given explosiveness that you don't see very often,"
Washington coach Chris Petersen said. "He's had that all along, but now he's
really become a polished receiver."

Though it's not usually a bad thing to be defined by your most precious skill
when that skill is elite speed, it was often a double-edged sword for Ross.
Starting with Steve Sarkisian's staff in his freshman year and continuing under
Petersen, Washington used Ross in roles that ranged from receiver to slot man to
kickoff returner to defensive back.

Ross became somewhat of a jack of all trades but master of none, increasing his
knowledge of the game but also breeding confusion about where he excelled.

"My receivers coach was telling me I should be a receiver, my (defensive backs)
coach was saying I should be a DB," Ross said. "That was the most difficult
part, not knowing what I was good at. I'd score touchdowns on offense, then not
allow a touchdown on defense. Then I'd get scored on and not catch any balls. It
was kind of hard knowing where I fit in and what would be best for me for my
future and our team."

Ross was still productive -- as a sophomore, he had five offensive touchdowns
and two on kickoff returns -- but it felt like there was more to give.

"He was really explosive when we got here," offensive coordinator Jonathan Smith
said. "He was great with the ball in his hands. Obviously he was a deep threat
at times, but he was raw as a route runner, and that took a little bit of time."

In November 2014, Ross switched full time to defense, starting four games at
cornerback as the Huskies' depth in the secondary was depleted by injury and
attrition. The next spring, Ross was preparing to go back to offense but
suffered a non-contact injury that required surgery and kept him out for six
months.

Though Ross lobbied to come back midway through a 2015 season in which the
Huskies struggled to a 3-4 start, they stuck with the plan to redshirt and come
back with a fresh start this year.

Washington knew it was a good decision out of the gates, as Ross, who had bulked
up to 190 pounds, had five catches for 90 yards and two touchdowns in a 48-13
season-opening win against Rutgers.

"He didn't play as consistently (in his first two years) as he would have
liked," Smith said. "But when he plays with confidence, he's lights out. ... We
needed to be more explosive this year in the passing game, and having some
explosive plays was a turning point, like, hey, this could be really special."

Ross, who had a combined 33 catches and five touchdowns in 2013 and 2014, is now
more than just a pure speed guy. He's known as a top-notch route runner, which
is why his production remained consistent across the season with eight games of
80-plus yards receiving. Washington also will hand off to him on occasion and
try to get him in space, which might be a key to keeping Alabama's defense off
balance.

"They move him around, and it's hard to predict where he's going to be," Alabama
defensive coordinator Jeremy Pruitt said. "You play man on him, and he wins the
50-50 balls. He's really good with the ball after the catch. They do a good job
with him in the screen game. He's an instinctive  player, but the big thing
that tells you what kind of competitive spirit he's got is the way he blocks in
the run game. The guy gets after it in the run game, and that kind of tells you
who he really is."

Now there's no confusion. Ross is an exceptional athlete, but he's no longer an
"ATH," even if he didn't exactly see this kind of season coming.

"I just started believing in myself and understanding my skill set and listening
to what the coaches were telling me, buying in, and things started to change,"
he said. "I knew I felt different just by going through our player-run
practices. I knew I knew more. But you never know how good of a season or how
bad of a season you're going to have. You just have to let the work show up, and
I feel like I worked hard and it showed up."

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Kyle Terada, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             112 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Last of the disco ball makers still hustles

BYLINE: Jeffrey Lee Puckett, The (Louisville) Courier-Journal

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 322 words


Yolanda Baker's fingers move with electric efficiency as she works her way
around a mirror ball early on a Tuesday morning in a small Highlands factory.
The core of the mirror ball is dull, spun aluminum, but in every pass, Baker is
turning it into a portable party, applying mirrored squares with impressive
speed and purpose.

There is no second-guessing or stopping to fix mistakes. Baker takes no
prisoners, and the mirror ball, more popularly known as a disco ball, is
blooming quickly as a handful of bystanders watch. She doesn't seem to notice
the prying eyes. She's had some practice at staying focused.

Baker has made tens of thousands of mirror balls for Louisville's Omega National
Products, the nation's leading provider of the same for nearly 50 years. She has
been making them for 47 years and, at an extremely spry 70, may be the last
disco ball maker in America.

She cranks them out daily at Omega's small shop on Breckinridge Street near
Baxter Avenue, in sizes that typically range from 2 to 36 inches in diameter.
Baker has filled orders from Madonna, Kid Rock, Pearl Jam and infamous New York
disco Studio 54.

Locally, Omega's disco balls have graced Jim Porter's Good Time Emporium,
Champ's Rollerdrome and Coyote's Music and Dance Hall.

That's an Omega ball in Saturday Night Fever, the iconic John Travolta film that
debuted nearly 40 years ago. If you've seen a  disco ball, hand-crafted with
mirrors, anywhere in the world, the odds are  high that it began life at Omega.

"I can't imagine how many people drive by here and never know what goes on,"
said  Baker, known as YoYo to  co-workers.

Baker, one of 13 workers in the mirror division, has been busy since a story on
NBC News in July sparked interest in her work, but her weekly output is a
fraction of what she averaged during the glory days of mirror balls.

Disco balls have become her calling card, yet "I don't have one," she confesses.
"Isn't that weird?"

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Michael Clevenger, The (Louisville) Courier-Journal

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             113 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

New year to bring heftier gasoline taxes in 7 states

BYLINE: Bart Jansen, @ganjansen, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 350 words


Motorists in nine states will see changes in gas taxes at the pump on New Year's
Day, and more than a dozen states will examine adjustments in 2017.

Pennsylvania has the nation's largest gas tax, at 50.4 cents per gallon,
according to the Tax Foundation. The rate will rise 7.9 cents per gallon, based
on a 2013 law. The other big increase is in Michigan, where the gas tax is 30.54
cents per gallon. That rate will rise 7.3 cents per gallon, based on a 2015 law.

Nebraska's rate of 27.7 cents per gallon will go up 1.5 cents per gallon, as
part of a four-step hike approved in 2015. Georgia, North Carolina, Indiana and
Florida will  see modest  bumps of less than a penny per gallon, based on
automatic adjustments, according to the Institute on Taxation and Economic
Policy.

Two states -- New York and West Virginia -- will have slight reductions based on
automatic adjustments, according to the institute. The Empire State's rate will
fall 0.8 cent per gallon, and the Mountain State's rate will drop 1 cent per
gallon.

The hikes reflect state efforts to balance budgets for road construction and
maintenance when Congress hasn't raised the federal gas tax of 18.4 cents per
gallon since 1993. State transportation officials and the construction industry
contend federal funding hasn't kept pace with inflation and more fuel-efficient
cars.

Voters in 22 states approved ballot initiatives Nov. 8 totaling more than $200
billion for state and local transportation projects, according to the American
Road & Transportation Builders Association. The funding for those measures was
largely through sales and property taxes.

State legislatures are likely to debate gas taxes as New Year's resolutions in
2017.

Alaska hasn't raised its gas tax since 1970 and has the nation's lowest rate at
8 cents per gallon, according to the Tax Foundation. Gov. Bill Walker proposed
Dec. 15 to triple the  tax over  two years.

New Jersey increased its rate by 23 cents to 37.5 on Nov. 1 in its  first gas
tax hike since 1988. Its previous rate of 14.5 cents per gallon had been the
second-lowest in the nation after Alaska.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             114 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Police suspect social media used to spur mall violence;
Widespread activity 'not a coincidence,' security expert says

BYLINE: Aamer Madhani, @AamerISmad, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 508 words


Police officials in several cities said Tuesday that they suspect social media
were used to organize some of the brawls and disturbances that broke out at more
than a dozen shopping malls across the country a day earlier, marring one of the
busiest shopping days of the year.

In Aurora, Colo., a posting on social media announcing a fight at the Town
Center of Aurora drew an unruly crowd that grew to about 500 people.

Five suspects, all juveniles, were arrested in that fight, which brought 50
officers to the scene and led to the mall being shut down.

In Manchester, Conn., several fights broke out around the same time at the
Shoppes at Buckland Hills Mall in that city Monday evening.

Capt. Christopher Davis said police believe it is "highly probable" that social
media postings played a part in organizing the disturbances that ended with the
arrests of seven people -- including five teenagers -- who were involved in the
melees.

In Beachwood, Ohio, police suspected that about 500 young people who took part
in a large-scale disturbance at the mall Monday had been loosely organized on
social media.

Police in the Cleveland suburb evacuated the mall after teens ran through the
shopping center amid incorrect reports that shots had been fired.

The mall's operators reopened it to shoppers after the situation was calmed.

Other major mall disturbances -- including some that led to shopping centers
being evacuated -- occurred in Tempe, Ariz.; Aurora, Ill.; Louisville;
Fayetteville, N.C.; East Garden City, N.Y.; Memphis; Fort Worth and elsewhere.

Images and videos of the brawls and chaotic scenes  were posted on Twitter,
Facebook and other social media platforms.

"There's a definite connection with social media," said Chris McGoey, who heads
the Los Angeles-based McGoey Security Consulting firm. "This is not a
coincidence that on this day, you have all of these similar events happening
across the country involving a certain age demographic. If you look at where
many of these incidents occurred, they are in cold climates. Added to that, it
happened the day after Christmas, most of these individuals were school-age
children, and they have nothing to do. And this is the YouTube generation, they
record everything, and they want to stimulate things through their social
media."

Law enforcement officials have not uncovered any evidence that the incidents --
which occurred at malls in about a dozen states within hours of each other --
were nationally coordinated.

Officer Tamara Valle, a Fort Worth Police Department spokeswoman, said officers
investigated whether an incident at Hulen Mall, in which 100 to 150 teenagers
brawled at the food court, was part of "some kind of premeditated thing across
the nation."

McGoey said mall operators' most effective deterrence to social-media-driven
incidents is to be tough on less serious misconduct, such as loitering and
harassment of shoppers. "These incidents aren't going to get better, they're
probably only going to become more common," he said.

Contributing: USA TODAY's Susan Miller and WFAA-TV

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Kevin R. Wexler, USA TODAY Network

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             115 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Bama's big test Washington QB Browning sure to push elite defense

BYLINE: Nicole Auerbach, @NicoleAuerbach, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 866 words


This group of Washington football players -- a heavy underdog against Alabama,
per Las Vegas -- believes it has an advantage for the Peach Bowl semifinal
matchup.

No, it's not because the Huskies coach has a stash of trick plays in his pocket
or because Alabama is deeply flawed in any way.

It's because their quarterback -- sophomore Jake Browning, who finished sixth in
the Heisman Trophy voting -- has spent every practice all year going up against
Washington's stout defense, a unit multiple players said reminded them of the
Crimson Tide's.

And Alabama's defense, albeit terrific and terrifying, has not faced a
quarterback nearly as talented as Browning.

Consider this: Southern California, which finished ninth in the final College
Football Playoff rankings and is Rose Bowl-bound, is the best team Alabama has
played. In that season-opening matchup, USC did not start its freshman
quarterback, Sam Darnold, who would ultimately become one of its biggest stars.
Darnold attempted eight passes in the Alabama game. He remained the team's
backup for two more games, before taking the reins and leading the Trojans to an
8-1 record to close out the regular season, including a dominant win at
Washington. But, again, he barely played in the 52-6 loss to the Crimson Tide.

And no Southeastern Conference quarterbacks -- outside of Alabama's Jalen Hurts
-- were particularly impressive this season. Even the young ones who showed
glimpses of potential were no match for this Alabama front seven and secondary.

"I don't think there's really that much in college football that no one's seen
before -- but we're a different offense than they're facing every day in the
SEC," Washington offensive lineman Jake Eldrenkamp said Tuesday. "I don't know
if it's a personnel thing or a scheme thing, but I don't think when you look at
an SEC offense and a Pac-12 offense that they'd match up identically. ... I'm a
little biased toward Jake but think he's one of the best quarterbacks in the
country. When you give him time, that's when you see special things."

Add one of the best under-the-radar receiving corps and a stronger run game than
outsiders give credit for, and you have a very good offense run by a very good
quarterback. Browning is fifth in the nation in quarterback efficiency, and he's
at the helm of the best team in the country in terms of turnover margin.

Browning's decision-making is excellent and his mistakes few.

"He protects the football," Alabama defensive coordinator Jeremy Pruitt said.
"There are very few interceptions, very few turnovers, which is very important.
He understands the offense. He understands what they're trying to get done. He
doesn't hold the ball (too long).

"He probably doesn't get enough credit for the athletic ability that he has. He
can extend and be a playmaker with his feet, but he does a nice job with his
eyes down the field to create an explosive pass game."

Said defensive lineman Jonathan Allen, "He's a very athletic running
quarterback. While breaking down the film, time after time, you see linebackers
and defensive backs missing tackles on him, and they're making great throws down
the field."

Allen described Browning as a challenge for Alabama's vaunted front seven, and
it's not just that. It's likely the pivotal matchup that will decide Saturday's
game.

"They're not going to give you anything," Browning said, later adding that he
thinks what makes Alabama's defense so dominant is not just the talented and
well-coached personnel. They're always in the right position, using the right
technique and "scheme-wise, they're similar to our defense."

Browning is also well aware that he's going to take a beating. Alabama's
pressure is constant and consistent, and pass rushers are often able to deliver
punishing blows even if the quarterback gets the pass off and it's not
technically a sack. Those hits pile up; by the end of the games he has watched
on film, quarterbacks were totally worn down against this front.

Washington offensive coordinator Jonathan Smith has made it clear to his players
that he's not sugarcoating anything. He knows they know how quick and strong
Alabama's defenders are and how good they are at forcing turnovers. He knows
they know it's the most difficult matchup they, too, will face all season.

Smith has framed the game for his offense as such: It's a challenge but also an
opportunity to play against this Alabama defense, and as long as the Huskies
refrain from turning the ball over on offense, they know their defense can keep
them in the game. It sounds simple, but the execution will be anything but.

"They create some havoc around the quarterback, obviously," Smith said. "They've
been great against the run and the line of scrimmage -- they've been tough to
move there. They do play extremely hard with those guys, and they can really
create pressure on the quarterback, not having to blitz. That's what you want.
You get to the big games like this, and you want to play the best. These guys
have been the best for a long time on that side of the football."

But this year's iteration hasn't faced a quarterback the likes of Browning yet
-- and he might be just the kind of quarterback it takes to beat the best.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             116 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Punishing Russia complex;
With report on doping program done, next step will be tricky

BYLINE: Rachel Axon, @RachelAxon, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1520 words


In announcing the final revealing details of Russia's state-sponsored doping in
a report this month, Canadian lawyer Richard McLaren was clear on his mandate --
investigating Russian doping but not adjudicating it.

The Herculean task of doing that falls to the international federations, which
could spend months -- if not years -- pursuing anti-doping rule violations
against the hundreds of athletes involved in the Russian state-sponsored system.

As those federations pursue individual cases, calls remain for a larger sanction
for Russia.

"I think what will be a problem is individual cases with individuals pleading,
'I was forced to do it,' or, 'I didn't know how it was done,'" said Dionne
Koller, director of the Center for Sport and the Law at the University of
Baltimore. "If you can't take action against the system itself, how do you
really get any kind of justice?"

McLaren's investigation, which was the second commissioned by the World
Anti-Doping Agency, revealed a system that reached to the highest levels of
Russian sport and government, involved more than 1,000 athletes and subverted
anti-doping processes over four years and two Olympics.

His report detailed tampering with samples to swap out dirty urine for clean
urine.

McLaren could identify 695 Russian athletes and 19 foreign athletes who were
part of manipulations to cover up positive tests, of which 246 "can be
identified as potentially knowingly participating in manipulation."

The report contained evidence in email documents, DNA and other forensic testing
of samples as well as evidence of tampering with the sample bottles.

Through WADA, the information McLaren uncovered will be shared with the
international federations.

McLaren compared the evidence for individual athletes to strands in a cable,
saying each agency responsible for results management would have to determine
whether they were sufficient to support an anti-doping rule violation.

Paul Greene, a sports lawyer who handles anti-doping matters around the world,
said he expects the federations to pursue cases where an athlete tested positive
for a banned substance first because those are the easiest.

Already, the International Olympic Committee has uncovered 101 positive tests
from retesting of  samples collected during the 2008 and 2012 Olympics. Of the
sanctions the IOC has announced, 27 were of Russian athletes. Friday, the IOC
announced it had opened disciplinary proceedings against 28 Russian athletes
whose samples were likely tampered with in Sochi.

Athlete responsibility

Cases with a non-analytical finding -- which might rely on evidence from
witnesses, emails, forensic testing or sample tampering, for instance -- can be
more difficult to prove.

McLaren's report highlights sections of the world anti-doping code which might
apply, including use or attempted use of a prohibited substance, tampering or
complicity.

"It is unknown whether athletes knowingly or unknowingly participated in the
process involved," McLaren wrote. "However they may be part of the conspiracy.
Whether the conduct of athletes who knowingly participated in the Russian doping
and doping coverup program is described as 'complicity' or 'conspiracy,' either
way it constitutes an anti-doping rule violation."

While athletes have strict liability for what's in their bodies under the code,
the facts of tampering by the Russian system could lead to arguments that
athletes weren't responsible for what others did with their samples.

"There are a lot of issues that are evidentiary issues that are going to play
out in these cases," Greene said, "and it's not going to be so cut and dry that
every case is a steamroll."

Olivier Niggli, WADA's director general, said some cases might be brought on
circumstantial evidence but said each would be evaluated on its own merits. An
international federation might not have enough to make a case if an athlete is
merely mentioned in an email, but Niggli expects many tampering cases to go
forward.

McLaren's report found that athletes banked clean urine to be swapped out during
competitions in Russia and that some provided the number on their sample to
Russian lab officials so their dirty urine could be swapped out.

"I think you start having a number of pieces of evidence that, put together,
creates a compelling picture," Niggli said. "I would think that (with) the Sochi
samples, it'll be relatively difficult for the athletes to say, 'I'm sorry. I
knew nothing about it. They changed the urine. I had no idea why I had provided
clean urine earlier in the season.'"

An athlete might be found to have an anti-doping rule violation for tampering
but get relief from sanctions because of tampering by others, said Joseph de
Pencier, CEO of the Institute of National Anti-Doping Organizations.

"Whether the athletes are innocent or not, they're going to bear the strict
liability for that happening," he said.

"Of course, that's one of the great potential tragedies is that whoever did
these nefarious actions maybe they get away, but the athletes whose samples were
tampered with aren't going to be so lucky."

In it for the long haul

As more has been revealed through investigations over the last two years, the
Russian scandal exposed a hole in the anti-doping code for addressing a
state-run system. Violations and sanctions are clearly defined against
individuals, but the code and Olympic Charter do not outline sanctions against a
system such as the one that Russia was found to have run.

Leaders from 17 national anti-doping agencies in August made recommendations
that included the adoption of clear sanctions for large-scale subversion of the
anti-doping system, but those recommendations have not yet been adopted by WADA
or the IOC.

The calls for an Olympic ban that echoed loudly before Rio have quieted, even as
some suggest one would be appropriate for the 2018 Pyeongchang Olympics.

"I think the option should be on the table," Koller said. "I think the McLaren
report is very damning, and I think the evidence is substantial and clear, but I
don't think they're going to take it."

IOC President Thomas Bach said he favored lifetime Olympic bans for athletes or
officials found to have been part of the "manipulation system."

Athletes acknowledge the findings of the previous reports that their Russian
peers were effectively forced into the system or risk losing support. For that
reason, and the clean athletes who might be harmed, some cannot support a
broader ban.

"I don't blame the athletes necessarily for this," U.S. bobsledder Elana Meyers
Taylor said.

"There might have been some who were doping on their own and they believed that
was the best thing for them, but I also really strongly believe (it) wasn't a
whole bunch of athletes got together and decided they wanted to be faster. ...

"The country needs to be punished, for sure, but I don't know if limiting the
rights of the athletes is the best situation."

In its effort to balance collective responsibility with individual justice
before Rio, the IOC opted not to ban Russia but left the decisions to the
international federations to determine whether Russian athletes met the IOC's
criteria to demonstrate their anti-doping history.

By that point, the International Association of Athletics Federation had banned
Russia entirely after the first WADA-commissioned report found widespread doping
in the sport. The International Weightlifting Federation banned Russia under its
rules regarding anti-doping rules violations in a country.

And the International Paralympic Committee banned Russia entirely.

The same concerns about consistency across federations remain as they face
obstacles of disparate financial resources, anti-doping expertise and competency
in this area, to say nothing of the politics and potential conflicts of
interest.

"Why push that off to each of the international federations to come up with
their own solution and their own way to address it when we have these central
bodies like the IOC and WADA that can address it literally at the global level
and come up with a way forward for all of us?" said Max Cobb, CEO of US
Biathlon.

"I think the international federations would be thrilled if the IOC would do
that and if WADA would do that, but for now it seems that we're on our own to
figure it out."

Greene and de Pencier said they had heard discussions of the Court of
Arbitration for Sport serving as a first-level hearing body, with potential
appeals being heard before a different CAS panel.

WADA spokeswoman Maggie Durand said it would be up to each federation to
determine whether to bring cases before its own hearing panel "or any other
disciplinary body." CAS did not respond to emailed questions from USA TODAY
Sports.

Regardless of who hears the cases, WADA has the ability to challenge them and
typically does so when a sanction appears to be too lenient.

Already, international federations face a challenge in assessing the evidence
and bringing cases. Factor in the potential number of cases involved and the
appeals process, and the Russian doping scandal could drag on through 2018.

Said de Pencier, "I think we're still in this for the long haul yet."

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Kirsty Wigglesworth, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             117 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Metropolitan loaded with strong teams

BYLINE: Kevin Allen, kmallen@usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 5C

LENGTH: 666 words


Ten important questions asked and answered about the NHL heading into 2017:

1 Is the Metropolitan Division as strong as it looks?

Yes. The top five teams (the Columbus Blue Jackets, Pittsburgh Penguins, New
York Rangers, Washington Capitals and Philadelphia Flyers) are  formidable. Each
has strong goaltending and an offense that can do damage. The good news for the
other teams in the Eastern Conference is that four of these teams have to play
each other in the first round of the playoffs.

2 Could Rangers goalie Henrik Lundqvist, 34, be starting his decline?

With the focus and work ethic this guy boasts, the guess has been that he would
start to decline in his late 30s. For that reason, Lundqvist's inconsistency
(.915 save percentage) feels more like a slump than an indication he's no longer
elite. It's hard to believe he won't be his old self as the season progresses.

3 Is the scoring race Edmonton Oilers captain Connor McDavid's to lose?

Not at all. Entering Tuesday, McDavid had 42 points to Sidney Crosby's 38, but
Crosby is still a king who must be toppled. Plus, why aren't we talking more
about the season Evgeni Malkin (39 points) is having?

4 Are the Tampa Bay Lightning really going to miss the playoffs?

The Lightning were three points behind the Boston Bruins for the final spot in
the Atlantic Division and seven points away from the last wild-card spot. It's
hard to see general manager Steve Yzerman letting them miss the playoffs. They
are a more dangerous team than the Ottawa Senators and Bruins. Yzerman will make
a move for defensive help before the trade deadline.

5 Are the Minnesota Wild a hot team or a high-quality team?

Bruce Boudreau does have a knack for coaxing more out of his teams. He also has
a disappointing playoff history. But the Wild's 10-game winning streak is
anything but a fluke. Under Boudreau, the Wild are fourth in goals per game and
first in goals-against average.

6 Are the Buffalo Sabres  the Eastern Conference's worst team?

They should not be, but they are. Losing first-line forward Ryan O'Reilly to an
appendectomy seems fitting for a team that has been out of sync all season.
Their 2.12 goals per game is tied for second worst in the NHL. More important,
they don't look like they are making progress. With Jack Eichel, Rasmus
Ristolainen and Sam Reinhart leading the way a year ago, this team appeared to
be up and coming.

7 Will the NHL pull the plug on Olympic participation?

It's hard to tell. The majority of NHL owners want to end the league's practice
of sending players to the Games. But the players want to go. It feels as if we
are waiting for the players to exert pressure or offer an inducement to persuade
the NHL to give its blessing for them to go to the 2018 Olympics in South Korea.

8 Are the Metropolitan-leading Blue Jackets for real?

Sergei Bobrovsky's play (.935 save percentage) has given the Blue Jackets the
capability of sustaining this elite level (23-5-4 record). Coach John Tortorella
has done an impressive job making this team believe in itself after last
season's disastrous result (34-40-8 record). It is, however, difficult to
project this team for the postseason, because the players don't have playoff
experience together.

9 Is Winnipeg Jets rookie Patrik Laine having a better season than Toronto Maple
Leafs rookie Auston Matthews?

No. Although Laine has scored more goals (19-16), Matthews has more
even-strength goals (13-12) and more shots on goal (121-96), even though Laine
plays more. Matthews seems like the better all-around player today. But this is
splitting hairs because both of these players are stars in the making.

10 Could the Chicago Blackhawks win their fourth Stanley Cup in the salary cap
era?

Yes, it's possible, even though they don't have the depth they once possessed.
They are sixth in goals-against average, and when they won it all  they did so
on the strength of goal prevention. Goalie Corey Crawford is the key player to
their playoff aspirations, but their defense is a close second.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Adam Hunger, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             118 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Bama players keep expectations high

BYLINE: Nancy Armour, narmour@usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 629 words


The national titles are impressive, of course. Four of them, including three in
the last five years.

A better measure of Nick Saban's greatness, however, is the expectation that is
now being passed from one Alabama class to another. Winning, or at least playing
for, a national championship is the only acceptable way to end the season.
Anything less is considered a failure.

"I look at my sophomore year as a lost year for us -- and we won the SEC,"
All-America defensive tackle Jonathan Allen said Tuesday, referring to Alabama's
loss to Ohio State in the semifinals of the inaugural College Football Playoff
in 2014.

"We just have high standards and high expectations for ourselves, and when you
don't meet them you're disappointed."

Sure, it is preached by the coaches, this legacy of success. But it is the
players who have ensured that all that talk gets translated into titles.

It is little things, like telling a teammate who is walking off the practice
field to pick it up because that's the standard at Alabama. Or pulling newcomers
aside to warn them that practice is going to be far worse than the horror
stories they've already heard.

It is checking anyone who shows even the slightest hint of complacency or
arrogance -- which, to be fair, is to be expected among teenagers and young
20-somethings who know no other view than the one from the top. It is holding
each other accountable, on and off the field.

"I wouldn't say (it's a) joyless existence. That's just the mind-set you've got
to have if you want to be great and have a legendary legacy," Allen said. "If
you want to do that, you have to have that relentlessness to your work ethic and
your grind.

"Thinking about last year's national championship isn't going to help us get
this one."

It is hard to win one title, let alone string together enough to venture into
dynasty territory. A look at the last 25 years suggests it might be even harder
now, what with the proliferation of televised games and the reduction in
scholarships leading to an increase in parity.

Nebraska (1994-97) is the only other team since 1992 to win three titles in a
five-year span. Only two others, LSU and Florida, won two in five years.
(Southern California split the national title with LSU in 2003 but was stripped
of its Bowl Championship Series title from the 2004 season.)

"Building it is hard work. You have to push yourself day in and day out just to
be great," defensive lineman Dalvin Tomlinson said. "To maintain is pretty much
the same level of work, but you have a bull's-eye on your back all season."

Maintaining that same, relentless demand for excellence is tough amid the
constant turnover of players and coaches. Messages and schemes that once were
innovative and exciting eventually become stale and ineffective.

Yet Alabama has managed to avoid the slide back to the pack. It has won three
consecutive Southeastern Conference titles and four in the last five years, and
it is the only team to make the Playoff all three years.

If Alabama beats Washington in Saturday's Peach Bowl semifinal, the Crimson Tide
would play for their fifth national title since 2009. If Washington wins, the
Huskies would be playing for their fifth national championship -- in school
history. And you have to count the ones they got from folks such as the National
Championship Foundation and Football News to reach that number.

And as much a credit as that is to Saban, it's even more so to his players. They
easily could have slacked off after the second or third title but  have come
back even hungrier.

"We feed off (Alabama's) past, and we don't want to downgrade," linebacker
Reuben Foster said. "We want to keep the process going and keep the tradition
going. The 'Bama way."

Saban is as demanding as they come. His players no less so.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo John David Mercer, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             119 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

10 Smart insurance resolutions

BYLINE: Lacie Glover NerdWallet

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 40 words


Insurance is a financial safety net for when life just doesn't go your way, but
that doesn't mean you should ignore it when things are going well. Here are 10
things you can do in 2017 to strengthen your net and avoid common insurance
claims.


LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo iStockphoto

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             120 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Amazon ships more than 1 billion holiday gifts

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 233 words


Amazon ships more than 1 billion holiday gifts

Amazon released data regarding its holiday sales season, including that it
shipped more than 1 billion items worldwide. Other data points: More than 72% of
Amazon holiday shoppers used a mobile device; Dec. 19 was the peak worldwide
shipping day; Dec. 23 was the biggest day worldwide for Prime Now deliveries;
and more than 200,000 full-time and seasonal Amazon workers in the U.S. helped
fill orders.

Home prices rose 5.1%   in october, data show

Home prices in 20 cities across the U.S. maintained steady growth in October as
buyers hoping to beat rising interest rates bid higher on scarce properties,
according to new data issued Tuesday. The Standard & Poor's CoreLogic
Case-Shiller 20-city home price index rose 5.1% in October from a year earlier
after rising 5% in September. Despite the continued sales growth, prices for the
20 cities remain 7.1% below their July 2006 peak.

UPS girds itself for 'National Returns Day'

UPS says it is gearing up for National Returns Day on Jan. 5. That's when it
expects returns to online sellers to hit their peak, with some 1.3 million
packages that day. Next week, it says more than 5.8 million packages are
expected to be sent.  Retailing consultant ShopperTrack said Monday was expected
to be the second-busiest shopping day this year, which is outpaced only by Black
Friday -- the day after Thanksgiving.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jeff Chiu, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             121 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Move now to save come April;
Q: Can investments cut my taxes?

BYLINE: Matt Krantz

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 205 words


A: Stocks and bonds are best known for being great tools to help you meet
financial goals. But investments can also be useful at tax time. You just need
to understand the rules.

So-called tax-loss harvesting is one of the best ways to lower your tax bill.
There's still time to use this tax-saving technique for the 2016 tax year
because the year isn't over yet. If you sell your money-losing stocks or bonds,
you can use those losses to offset capital gains you might have generated during
the year if you sold profitable stocks. Even if you don't have any capital
gains, it can still be lucrative to sell losers. You can deduct up to $3,000 a
year in capital losses against your ordinary income. If you have more than
$3,000 in capital losses, you can use those to offset gains and income in the
future. There are additional rules to be aware of, the biggest one being that if
you sell a loser, you must wait more than 30 days before buying it back or the
tax loss is invalidated.

There are other ways to offset taxes using investments. Funding a traditional
individual retirement account, or IRA, can help. You will need to pay taxes on
the money when you take it out, but that could be decades from now, giving you a
tax break now.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             122 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Rooting for Lions keeps Key on edge

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 224 words


Keegan-Michael Key was trying to hold it together.

His beloved Detroit Lions were playing the New York Giants, he was left talking
about his new movie Why Him? and there was no TV in sight.

"I'm using all of the control in my body to not pick up my phone," he said.

It was Week 15, and a victory would have put Detroit more securely atop the NFC
North. However, the Lions lost that game and are now 9-6 and tied with Green Bay
as they prepare to face the Packers on Sunday in Detroit for the division title.

"He's the nicest man in the world, and I just saw him throw his phone across the
room," Why Him? co-star Zoey Deutch said.

All lies, Key said.

"They think I'm the nicest man, they just never watch me watch a football game,"
he said. "They never see my team blowing it in the moment that's happening
during an interview.

"It's fine," he said, clearly lying. "It's just a game. It's just a game."

Despite the emotional roller coaster the Lions sent him on, Key said he uses
watching football on Sundays as a way to relax.

"I like to watch RedZone, that's how lazy of a (fan) I am," he said. "I can't
even switch the channel. ... But you have to decompress on a Sunday. You do some
things on Saturday, you run some errands, you go to temple. But on Sundays, you
make it as easy as possible."

To see Key's NFL picks for Week 17, go to ftw.usatoday.com

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             123 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

First word

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 225 words


FIRST WORD

WHAT DO I KNOW? I GREW UP A DALLAS COWBOYS FAN. HOLLYWOOD HENDERSON IN
PARTICULAR."

Steelers coach Mike Tomlin, who was asked about Hall of Fame quarterback and Fox
analyst Terry Bradshaw calling him more of a cheerleader than a coach. Henderson
once said Bradshaw was so dumb he couldn't spell "cat" if you spotted him the
"c" and the "a."

TWEET OF THE DAY

@LegerDouzable

We let Rex down as players. Smh

Bills defensive end Leger Douzable, after head coach Rex Ryan was fired Tuesday.

MAGIC NUMBERS

12

Victories for Utah in its last 13bowl games. The Utes play Indiana in the Foster
Farms Bowl on Wednesday.

11

Games coached by American Bob Bradley before his firing by English Premier
League club Swansea City, which was 2-7-2 in his nearly three-month tenure.

LAST WORD

"MIAMI IS SO GOOD ON DEFENSE, I DON'T KNOW IF WE'LL GET A FIRST DOWN."

West Virginia football coach Dana Holgerson, at a news conference before
Wednesday's Russell Athletic Bowl.

Sports Weekly

Green Bay and Detroit take the NFC North race to the final game of the regular
season. Plus Week 17 NFL picks, analysis of the College Football Playoff and
inside looks at the White Sox and Rockies. Available on newsstands. To
subscribe, go to mysportsweekly.com or call 800-872-0001. The digital edition is
available in the Apple, Google Play and Amazon Kindle stores.

Edited by Roxanna Scott

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Utah's Joe Williams, left, and Troy Williams by Russell Isabella,
USA TODAY Sports by Russell Isabella, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             124 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

USA TODAY Sports/MMAJunkie MMA rankings

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 7C

LENGTH: 696 words


The rankings take into account a fighter's wins/losses, quality of competition,
finishing rate/dominance and frequency of fights. Fighters are ineligible to be
ranked after they've been inactive for 24 months, either because of injuries,
drug/conduct suspensions, contract disputes or self-imposed hiatuses. Fighters
will be ranked in their primary weight class. Catchweight fights and bouts
outside of the fighter's primary weight class can have a positive or negative
impact on the ranking. However, non-titleholders can be ranked in only one
weight class and, in most cases, they won't be ranked in a new weight class
until they've had their first fight at that weight.

POUND-FOR-POUND

1. Demetrious Johnson (25-2-1) UFC

2. Jon Jones (22-1-0) UFC

3. Dominick Cruz (22-1-0) UFC

4. Daniel Cormier (18-1-0) UFC

5. Conor McGregor (21-3-0) UFC

6. Jose Aldo (26-2-0) UFC

7. Stipe Miocic (16-2-0) UFC

8. Tyron Woodley (16-3-1) UFC

9. Anthony Johnson (22-5-0) UFC

10. Khabib Nurmagomedov (24-0-0) UFC

HEAVYWEIGHT

1. Stipe Miocic (16-2-0) UFC

2. Fabricio Werdum (21-6-1) UFC

3. Cain Velasquez (14-2-0) UFC

4. Junior Dos Santos (18-4-0) UFC

5. Ben Rothwell (36-10-0) UFC

6. Alistair Overeem (41-15-0) UFC

7. Vitaly Minakov (18-0-0) Bellator

8. Josh Barnett (35-8-0) UFC

9. Andrei Arlovski (25-13-0) UFC

10. Derrick Lewis (17-4-0) UFC

LIGHT HEAVYWEIGHT

1. Jon Jones (22-1-0) UFC

2. Daniel Cormier (18-1-0) UFC

3. Anthony Johnson (22-5-0) UFC

4. Phil Davis (17-3-0) Bellator

5. Ryan Bader (22-5-0) UFC

6. Glover Teixeira (25-5-0) UFC

7. Alexander Gustafsson (17-4-0) UFC

8. Jimi Manuwa (16-2-0) UFC

9. Ovince Saint Preux (19-9-0) UFC

10. Liam McGeary (11-1-0) Bellator

MIDDLEWEIGHT

1. Michael Bisping (30-7-0) UFC

2. Yoel Romero (12-1-0) UFC

3. Luke Rockhold (15-3-0) UFC

4. Ronaldo Souza (23-4-0) UFC

5. Chris Weidman (13-2-0) UFC

6. Robert Whittaker (17-4-0) UFC

7. Gegard Mousasi (41-6-2) UFC

8. Derek Brunson (16-4-0) UFC

9. David Branch (19-3-0) WSOF

10. Vitor Belfort (25-13-0) UFC

WELTERWEIGHT

1. Tyron Woodley (16-3-1) UFC

2. Stephen Thompson (13-1-1) UFC

3. Robbie Lawler (27-11-0) UFC

4. Rory MacDonald (18-4-0) Bellator

5. Demian Maia (24-6-0) UFC

6. Ben Askren (15-0-0) One

7. Donald Cerrone (32-7-0) UFC

8. Johny Hendricks (17-5-0) UFC

9. Dong Hyun Kim (21-3-1) UFC

10. Jake Shields (31-8-1) WSOF

LIGHTWEIGHT

1. Conor McGregor (21-3-0) UFC

2. Khabib Nurmagomedov (24-0-0) UFC

3. Tony Ferguson (22-3-0) UFC

4. Eddie Alvarez (28-5-0) UFC

5. Rafael dos Anjos (25-8-0) UFC

6. Edson Barboza (18-4-0) UFC

7. Nate Diaz (19-11-0) UFC

8. Justin Gaethje (16-0-0) WSOF

9. Michael Chiesa (14-2-0) UFC

10. Beneil Dariush (14-2-0) UFC

FEATHERWEIGHT

1. Jose Aldo (26-2-0) UFC

2. Max Holloway (17-3-0) UFC

3. Frankie Edgar (21-5-1) UFC

4. Chad Mendes (17-4-0) UFC

5. Ricardo Lamas (17-5-0) UFC

6. Cub Swanson (24-7-0) UFC

7. Daniel Straus (24-6-0) Bellator

8. Patricio Freire (25-4-0) Bellator

9. Anthony Pettis (19-6-0) UFC

10. Charles Oliveira (21-7-0) UFC

BANTAMWEIGHT

1. Dominick Cruz (22-1-0) UFC

2. T.J. Dillashaw (13-3-0) UFC

3. Raphael Assuncao (23-5-0) UFC

4. Bibiano Fernandes (20-3-0) One

5. Marlon Moraes (17-4-1) WSOF

6. Eduardo Dantas (19-4-0) Bellator

7. Cody Garbrandt (10-0-0) UFC

8. John Lineker (29-7-0) UFC

9. Jimmie Rivera (20-1-0) UFC

10. Bryan Caraway (21-7-0) UFC

FLYWEIGHT

1. Demetrious Johnson (25-2-1) UFC

2. Joseph Benavidez (25-4-0) UFC

3. Henry Cejudo (10-2-0) UFC

4. Kyoji Horiguchi (18-2-0) UFC

5. Jussier Formiga (19-4-0) UFC

6. Ali Bagautinov (14-5-0) UFC

7. Wilson Reis (21-6-0) UFC

8. Ian McCall (13-5-1) UFC

9. John Moraga (16-5-0) UFC

10. Dustin Ortiz (16-6-0) UFC

WOMEN'S POUND-FOR-POUND

1. Joanna Jedrzejczyk (13-0-0) UFC

2. Cristiane Justino (17-1-0) UFC

3. Claudia Gadelha (14-2-0) UFC

4. Amanda Nunes (13-4-0) UFC

5. Ronda Rousey (12-1-0) UFC

6. Barb Honchak (10-2-0) Invicta

7. Julianna Pena (8-2-0) UFC

8. Jessica Aguilar (19-5-0) UFC

9. Ayaka Hamasaki (13-1-0) Invicta

10. Valentina Shevchenko (13-2-0) UFC

WOMEN'S BANTAMWEIGHT

1. Amanda Nunes (13-4-0) UFC

2. Ronda Rousey (12-1-0) UFC

3. Julianna Pena (8-2-0) UFC

4. Valentina Shevchenko (13-2-0) UFC

5. Holly Holm (10-2-0) UFC

WOMEN'S STRAWWEIGHT

1. Joanna Jedrzejczyk (13-0-0) UFC

2. Claudia Gadelha (14-2-0) UFC

3. Jessica Aguilar (19-5-0) UFC

4. Karolina Kowalkiewicz (10-1-0) UFC

5. Carla Esparza (11-3-0) UFC

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             125 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A nuclear America can be great;
A focus on exporting zero-carbon energy could help the world and create jobs
here.

BYLINE: Michael Shellenberger

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 784 words


As President-elect Donald Trump and Congress seek to "put America first," they
should give special attention to an export sector America has been putting last:
nuclear energy.

A focus on making nuclear reactors for export may seem quixotic. After all,
nuclear power plants in the U.S. are struggling against cheap natural gas and
heavily subsidized renewables. And historically, nuclear plants have been built
locally, not manufactured and exported.

But global demand for electricity is set to rise 70% over the next 25 years,
mostly due to increasing demand in developing nations. And technological
advances mean that new nuclear reactor components can increasingly be
mass-manufactured and shipped around the world.

At stake is a market worth $500 billion to $740 billion over the next decade,
according to the Commerce Department, and hundreds of thousands of high-skill
and high-wage jobs.

'Atoms for Peace'

U.S. leadership on nuclear power dates back to 1953, when President Eisenhower
announced Atoms for Peace, an effort "to provide abundant electrical energy in
the power-starved areas of the world."

It was a win-win for the U.S. and energy-hungry developing nations. Thanks to
this effort, the U.S. today gets 20% of its electricity from nuclear plants,
which employ 32,000 workers directly and create an additional 200,000 jobs in
the economy. Simply helping China build four nuclear plants has created 20,000
jobs in 20 U.S. states, according to Westinghouse.

But global competition is threatening. "Despite the U.S. civil nuclear
industry's strengths," the Commerce Department warned, "U.S. companies continue
to lose ... market share ... to foreign government owned or led competitors,
including Russia, Japan, France, China and the Republic of Korea."

The reason: Those nations offer low-cost loans to nations seeking to finance
nuclear plant construction. The U.S. does not.

Meanwhile, China is racing past America in innovation. China has at least four
next-generation nuclear reactors in the works, including one financed by Bill
Gates, who is expected to invest millions in the joint venture.

The situation facing nuclear plants domestically is urgent. Five U.S. nuclear
plants have closed prematurely since 2013. Now, 50% to 75% of them could be
shuttered in just a few years, threatening 100,000 to 150,000 high-wage jobs.

The problem isn't that nuclear plants are uneconomical, it's that they are
punished by discriminatory policies that treat one zero-carbon energy option
more favorably than another.

Rethinking subsidies

In 2013, solar received 281 times more in subsidies per unit of electricity than
nuclear, while wind received 17 times more, according to the Energy Information
Administration. As a result  some nuclear plants that produce power at costs
lower than the wind subsidy could be forced to close.

What's needed is bold leadership on infrastructure, tax reform and energy
policy.

Every one of the five nuclear plants that closed in recent years could have kept
running had there been some incentive for owners to invest in retrofits and
repairs. The infrastructure bill that Trump and Congress are talking about could
launch one, creating thousands of jobs. Building a new plant employs 3,500
people at peak construction.

Tax reform should level the playing field. If there is an incentive for
pollution-free power, it should go to nuclear plants, not just wind and solar.

To support innovation, Trump and Congress should take a page from history and
authorize the departments of Defense and Energy to demonstrate and purchase
advanced nuclear reactors for use at military bases and laboratories. The
Department of Defense already does this with the nuclear reactors it uses in
submarines and aircraft carriers.

Such an effort will require new regulations. It makes no sense to regulate jet
planes the same way we do propeller planes, yet that is how the federal
government treats new nuclear reactor types.

This new Atoms for Peace effort could inspire and unite the country and the
world around something almost everyone wants: cheap, clean energy.

Trump should work with Congress to increase the financing of U.S. nuclear plants
in foreign nations, and personally involve himself in selling projects to allied
nations. Such work would create jobs directly and provide an important driver of
economic growth: inexpensive power.

Given that nuclear is our largest source of clean energy -- and the only one
proven capable of scaling up rapidly -- a new Atoms for Peace effort will do
more for clean air and climate change than any number of pollution regulations
or United Nations treaties.

Michael Shellenberger is president of Environmental Progress, a research and
policy organization.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo John Madill, The Herald-Palladium via AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             126 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Obama's fading presidential profile

BYLINE: James S. Robbins

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 492 words


Last week the White House felt it necessary to point out that the United States
only has "one president at a time." But it is increasingly unclear if that is
still Barack Obama.

Case in point is the dispute over United Nations Security Council Resolution
2334, which reiterated the council's "demand that Israel immediately and
completely cease all settlement activities in the occupied Palestinian
territory, including East Jerusalem."

The measure passed 14-0, with the U.S. abstaining. Typically, the U.S. would use
its veto power on a measure like this, upholding the long-standing American
policy that the final settlement of the Israeli-Palestinian issue must take
place between the parties involved and not be imposed from without.

However, the Obama administration chose to break with that policy. According to
U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Samantha Power, Washington was sending a message
that "the settlements must stop." But she also confusingly said the historic
policy break "does not in any way diminish the United States' steadfast and
unparalleled commitment to the security of Israel." It is hard to believe that
even she believes that.

This was a bad move for President Obama to make on his way out the door. The
resolution did not empower U.N. member states to take any action, so the
administration cannot argue that it was taking this historic step to create real
change. And by simply abstaining, instead of voting in favor of the resolution,
Obama cannot even claim he was making a final, personal statement on the issue.
It was "lead from behind" without the leadership, passivity pretending to be
accomplishment. It looked like a petulant parting shot from a very lame duck.

The U.N. may also take a hit. On Saturday, Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., pledged
to lead a break with the organization, saying, "I can't support funding a body
that singles out the only democracy in the Middle East who shares our values."

This could prove to be politically popular; a Gallup poll from February 2016
showed that 54% of Americans believe the U.N. does a poor job.  You don't have
to be a Manhattan real estate tycoon to see the potential in redeveloping the
U.N. headquarters site in Turtle Bay.

President-elect Donald Trump was the big winner politically. The Trump team has
made no secret that it will be a much stronger supporter of Israel than
President Obama ever was. And in the run-up to the vote on Resolution 2334 the
president-elect persuaded Egypt, the representative of the Arab world on the
Security Council, to withdraw its sponsorship of the measure, though it still
voted yes. Trump came off looking dynamic and effective while his support for
the Jewish state makes the charge his administration is tinged with
anti-Semitism unsustainable.

James S. Robbins, an expert on foreign affairs and the military, is an author
and a member of USA TODAY's Board of Contributors. His books include This Time
We Win: Revisiting the Tet Offensive.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             127 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Obama has struck the right balance

BYLINE: Steven Simon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 357 words


The U.S. could conceivably have done things in Syria beyond what it did. The
U.S. began with crushing sanctions to bankrupt President Bashar Assad's
supporters, diplomatic isolation and efforts to build up  external opposition.
These efforts eventually morphed into military support for the armed opposition.

Beyond these considerable actions, what could have been done to bring about a
democratic transition in Syria?

The answer depends in part on the regime's staying power and the stake that its
friends have in keeping it in place. Likewise, it would depend on the cohesion
of the armed opposition and the sort of Syria that they are fighting to create.

Another factor is U.S. strategic interest. Does the U.S. have more interest in
deposing Assad than Assad's friends have in keeping him in power? It's important
to think this through.

Given the regime's fear of annihilation should it lose; the clear commitment of
Russia, Iran and Hezbollah to support it; the failure of the moderate opposition
to prevail quickly; and foreign fighters entering the fray, the U.S. would have
had to intervene massively and probably with ground forces to dislodge  Assad.

But there was never a Washington consensus that such a commitment was in U.S.
interest and  no consensus that U.S. intervention would have produced the kind
of political outcome that the long-suffering Syrian people deserve.

For the U.S., killing a tyrant is relatively easy. Ask Saddam Hussein or Moammar
Gadhafi. But reconstituting the politics and infrastructure of a country is
hard. The U.S. tried for a decade in Iraq, spent an estimated $4 trillion  and
then had to re-intervene.

Given these constraints,  the most feasible course was humanitarian assistance,
removal of most of Syria's chemical weapons and moving to destroy the Islamic
State in Iraq and Syria, a process now well underway.

A president must balance strategic priorities and assess the public support
needed to finish what is started. President Obama struck such a balance.

Steve Simon is the John J. McCloy 2016 Visiting Professor of History at Amherst
College. (The White House declined to provide an opposing view.)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             128 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Dark calamity strikes in latest season of 'Sherlock'

BYLINE: Brian Truitt, @briantruitt, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 502 words


The game is afoot yet again in the fourth season of Sherlock, but so is complete
catastrophe.

The clever and adventurous series takes a definite turn for the worse -- for all
of its major characters -- in the next three-episode round of the PBS
Masterpiece series  (Sunday, 9  ET/PT).

"It doesn't lose the humor, but it still goes to places that I think are darker
than we've gone to before, for all of us," says Martin Freeman, who stars as
devoted assistant John Watson to Benedict Cumberbatch's British detective
Sherlock Holmes.

As Sunday's premiere  begins, Sherlock's "got his mojo back," says co-creator
Mark Gatiss. He's coming out of a drug-induced stupor to figure out how
archvillain Jim Moriarty (Andrew Scott) is cyber-taunting him from the grave,
and now Sherlock is "high on life."

He happily takes a new workload of cases with John and his wife, Mary (Amanda
Abbington), who've  just had a  baby. But a rash of thefts involving a bust of
Margaret Thatcher brings Mary's sinister past as an assassin to the fore,
leading to deadly ramifications.

"It's always exciting to play stuff that is thrilling and dangerous and dramatic
and funny, and I think that's what Mary is," Abbington says.

The harrowing climax in Sunday's premiere leads to massive emotional fallout
that threatens to create a permanent divide between Sherlock and John. "Their
friendship is tested to the ultimate," Abbington  says. "If they can survive
this, then they will actually survive anything."

The situation is particularly trying for Sherlock, who's evolved over the course
of the series  from eccentric recluse to having friends and even getting along
with his brother Mycroft (Gatiss).

"He's never going to be like the rest of us. It's just he has developed. He has
learned to a greater or  lesser extent how to do human," Gatiss says. "It was
always Mycroft and his upbringing that taught him to eliminate emotion from his
life.  He's becoming bonded with people and is slightly devastated by the
consequences."

Watson is also in for a change,  from  the show's "stable, reliable, solid rock"
to a man dealing with temptation and guilt, Freeman says. "It's good to have
that moral compass go off pole a little bit."

Toby Jones guest stars as bad guy Culverton Smith in the second episode, titled
"The Lying Detective" that's  based on the Sir Arthur Conan Doyle story "The
Dying Detective." Freeman says Smith rivals Moriarty as the worst person
Sherlock's encountered.

"It's generally the darkest episode we've done, and Toby is very, very scary,"
Gatiss says.

The season finale "really does hit you behind the eyes," says  Abbington.  "The
Final Problem" marks  the first time the show has used a canonical Doyle title
-- the original 1893 story, in which the author first  killed  the genius
detective.

"It's a great title and it has the requisite air of doom," Gatiss teases.

So should  fans wonder  about Sherlock's fate? "Everyone should worry, shouldn't
they?" Gatiss says with a laugh. "I think we should all be worried."

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Robert Viglasky, Hartswood Films

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             129 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

6 apps that made me say 'wow' in '16;
From camera apps to gaming apps to ones that improve your videos, here are my
faves

BYLINE: Graham, @jeffersongraham, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 434 words


An app that knows where I'm going and where I'm staying and suggests what to do
when I'm on vacation, without me even inputting one word into the application.
Sounds creepy, but I was sold.

This new 2016 app -- Google Trips -- is one of six that made me say "wow" in
2016.

If you haven't checked out Google Trips, go download it now. It's free. The app
works best if you're a Google user, because Google taps into your email
primarily to put together all your travel info in one place.

It knows, for instance, that I'm planning a visit to Zion National Park in
January, when I'm arriving and where I'm staying. That's great. I don't have to
search through Gmail to find the reservation info.

It also offers suggestions on things to do and where to eat while there and lets
me download the info to the phone, to save for reading when offline.

For those who think Google is too pervasive in our lives, I have a simple
retort: Don't bother downloading Google Trips. But for those of us who don't
mind Google's peering eyes, I say, "Wow."

Here are five other new apps I loved in 2016:

Quik, from action camera maker GoPro, takes your smartphone video clips and
turns them automatically into rad looking mini-movies, with minimal involvement
from yourself. I'm usually not a fan of automatically generated edits, but this
app does it so well, it made me say, "Wow."

The most popular new app of the year, Pokémon Go, was a national craze, using
augmented reality to insert characters from the Pokemon universe into real life.
I don't have to tell you how cool it is. You probably remember all those throngs
of people running around cities this summer, hunting Pokémon.

The Detour app took a great idea, audio tours of fantastic places, and brought
them to the smartphone generation, using great narrators and the ability to sync
the tour with others so groups could enjoy them together. Areas of interest
include Venice Beach, the Brooklyn Bridge and downtown Chicago.

Another app I love is Switcher Go. I love making Facebook Live broadcasts, but
let's face it -- my face on the screen for 15 minutes with nothing else to look
at can get boring.

Switcher Go (iOS only) solved that problem by letting us insert up to four video
clips during the broadcast, turning the amateur hour into something that looks
way more professional. (You just pull four photos or videos from your Camera
Roll and have them ready to switch to during the broadcast.)

Finally, the best camera app of the year, Prisma, which turns your photos into
artwork. Just snap the photo and watch it morph into the style of the masters.

Now that's a big "wow."

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Google

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             130 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A second life as a writer was a gift for readers;
Novels and memoirs revealed an honesty leavened by wit

BYLINE: Jocelyn McClurg, @jocelynmcclurg, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 498 words


Carrie Fisher reminded the world that she had a notable second career as a witty
and candid writer when her latest memoir made headlines in November and revealed
a 40-year-old secret.

In The Princess Diarist, based on diaries she kept at the time, Fisher came
clean about a three-month-long affair she had at age 19 with married, older
co-star Harrison Ford while filming the first Star Wars movie.

In a  *** review for USA TODAY, Brian Truitt described Princess Diarist as
"funny and frequently touching."

He called the revelation of the affair  "an eye-opener for fans" and said
Diarist was proof that Fisher was "a gifted writer even at a young age." There
was, he wrote, "a lot going on between Princess Leia's hair buns."

Despite a People magazine story and  the headlines that followed,  Diarist,
surprisingly, failed to make USA TODAY's Best-Selling Books list. (By Tuesday
afternoon, the memoir had leapt to No. 1 on Amazon.)

Truitt wrote in his review: "Those looking for a tell-all won't find one here --
Fisher, now 60, keeps it pretty PG-13, so there's no discussion of, say, Han
Solo's lightsaber. What she does instead in her signature style (with tangents
and asides aplenty) when recollecting the 'Carrison' era is come clean about her
emotions. She was pretty much in love at the time, but Ford's unreadable, quiet,
guy's-guy persona drove her a bit crazy."

She did have best sellers, beginning in 1987 with her first novel, Postcards
From the Edge, a semi-autobiographical tale that made a big splash and became a
movie starring Meryl Streep and Shirley MacLaine. (Fisher wrote the screenplay.)
Fisher, then 30, said she had first been approached about writing a humorous
memoir. Instead, her "material" from rehab evolved into fiction.

"It was an extreme situation I made funny to myself while going through it," she
told The New York Times. "That's when I need humor: when there's nothing funny.
I was in the worst place I could be and not be dead."

Fisher wrote more novels (The Best Awful, Surrender the Pink, Delusions of
Grandma) and eventually decided sardonic memoirs were OK after all. Her druggie
past and electroshock therapy all became game in Wishful Drinking (2008) and
Shockaholic (2011).

She acknowledged that shock treatments caused some memory loss. "For all I know,
they could have dressed me in a ball gown, surrounded me with dancing dolphins,
and married me off to Rush Limbaugh," she wrote in Shockaholic.

For Fisher, writing openly about her real life, ironically, allowed her more
artistic freedom.

In a review of Wishful Drinking, Entertainment Weekly said: "Fisher's voice is
freer, now that she's no longer hiding behind the coy scrim of calling her perky
howls of pain 'novels' (as she did with Postcards From the Edge and The Best
Awful)."

Three of her books made USA TODAY's best-seller list, which launched in fall
1993: Delusions of Grandma, which peaked at No. 122; The Best Awful (No. 135);
and Wishful Drinking (No. 105).

Contributing: Mary Cadden

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Araya Diaz, WireImage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             131 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Short-term outlook buoys consumer confidence in December

BYLINE: Roger Yu, @ByRogerYu, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 294 words


Consumer confidence reached another post-recession high in December as the stock
market soared to a new record after the election of Donald Trump and the outlook
for the job market remains robust.

The Conference Board said Tuesday its consumer confidence index increased to
113.7 in December from an upwardly revised 109.4 in November.

"The post-election surge in optimism for the economy, jobs and income prospects,
as well as for stock prices which reached a 13-year high, was most pronounced
among older consumers," said Lynn Franco, director of economic indicators at the
Conference Board, a non-profit business research organization.

Much of the confidence boost came from expectations that short-term economic
conditions will improve.

The Expectations Index, which measures consumers' outlook for the next six
months, rose sharply from 94.4 in November to 105.5, a 13-year high.

Consumers who expect business conditions to improve in the next six months
increased to 23.6% from 16.4%. Those expecting business conditions to worsen
declined from 9.9% to 8.7%.

But consumers' assessment of current conditions declined in December. The
Present Situation Index fell to 126.1 from 132.0 in November. Consumers who said
business conditions are "good" fell to 29.2% from 29.7%. Those saying business
conditions are "bad" increased to 17.3% from 15.2%.

Consumers generally remain optimistic about labor market strength. Those
expecting more jobs in the coming months increased from 16.1% to 21%. But those
expecting fewer jobs also rose to 14% from 13.5%.

Consumers also expect their incomes to continue to grow. The percentage of
consumers expecting rising incomes increased to 21% from 17.4% in November.
Consumers expecting a cut in their incomes declined to 8.6% from 9.2%.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Hyosub Shin, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             132 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Stores on lookout for fake currency;
Experts say surge in counterfeits likely at this time of year

BYLINE: Zlati Meyer, Detroit Free Press

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 559 words


As consumers flock to make returns at stores or pile up post-holiday purchases,
experts say there's still a need to be on the lookout for counterfeit currency.

Store chains are certainly watching, wanting to make sure they don't get stuck
with fake bills.

There's about $1.3 trillion in genuine U.S. currency in circulation, and about
one one-hundredth of 1% -- approximately one out of every $10,000 in Federal
Reserve notes -- is counterfeit, according to the Federal Reserve.

"Now is the time in which we see an uptick in counterfeiting money, not only in
Michigan, but throughout the United States. It's because it's the holiday
season. People are out shopping; clerks are busy. They may not pay close
attention," said Jeff Frost, special agent in charge of the  Secret Service's
Detroit field office. "More is manufactured, and more is being attempted to
pass."

Around the world, the $100 bill is most counterfeited, but in the U.S., it's the
$20, the Federal Reserve found. "People use it more frequently, the $20 (more)
than the $100, because all the ATMs dispense it. When someone gives you a
counterfeit $100, you remember that person," Frost said, adding that over the
years, technological advances and digital imagery have enabled even unskilled
counterfeiters to make fake currency.

U.S. notes have numerous security features that are hard for counterfeiters to
work around. High on that list is the physical feel of the bill. Paper money
isn't made of paper. Rather, bills are composed of cotton and linen. If your
fingers are saying, "Hmm," it's probably a fake bill. Another security
"touch"-stone is the intaglio printing, which keeps the ink on top of the bills,
giving it a slightly raised feel.

Many retailers train their staff to check for other signs, such as looking for
watermarks and a blue security thread.

Art Van, for example, gives its stores blacklight pens that can detect
counterfeit currency and educational posters outlining security features of
various denominations, according to company spokeswoman Diane Charles. If a
bogus greenback is detected, the store employee knows to inform the shopper and
then hold onto the bill.

Supermarket chain Kroger outfits its cashiers with UV pens -- with instructions
to check every note $50 or larger -- and gives them training classes about how
to recognize it, especially when new currency is introduced, explained Rachel
Hurst, Kroger Michigan's consumer affairs manager.

They return the bill to the shopper and later alert the store's loss-prevention
department.

"They're advised to apologize and simply say, 'We're unable to validate the
authenticity of these bills. We're unable to accept them. We're happy to accept
another form of payment.' We don't make a scene at the register," she said.
"There has been a recent spike. It's the time in the holiday season (when) smart
decisions are not always made."

Here's a few ways to check whether a bill is real:

The watermark on what the Secret Service calls "big head" bills is embedded in
the money and matches the portrait on the bill, visible when held up to light.

Color-shifting ink is used for printing the denomination's number and the $100's
Bell in the Inkwell design.

A security thread is visible only when held up to light.

A blue 3D security ribbon is woven into the $100 bill, which have little 100s
moving when the bill is tilted.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo fake $100 by getty Images/iStockphoto

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             133 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

What sizzled, fizzled on the small screen

BYLINE: Gary Levin, @garymlevin, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 478 words


TV was tumultuous in 2016: More streaming apps, more delayed viewing, and more
shows led to a dizzying year. Our take on some noteworthy trends:

True-crime rise

Decades-old crimes came to the fore. FX's American Crime Story: The People v.
O.J. Simpson offered a fictionalized account of the NFL star's murder trial,
while ESPN's documentary O.J.: Made in America painted a detailed portrait of
Simpson's life, career and the case. The case of JonBenet Ramsey was revisited
by three TV projects on the 20th anniversary of her death; CBS' version pointed
the finger at her brother. Netflix's Making a Murderer, released last December,
reverberated when its subjects,  Brendan Dassey and his uncle, Steven Avery,
fought for acquittals. And the all-crime Investigation Discovery network ranked
among cable's top 12.

Time travel test

It was a clever conceit in Back to the Future and TV's 50-year-old drama The
Time Tunnel, but this year's crop of time-travel dramas fizzled. NBC's Timeless
and CW's Frequency will finish out their short runs early next year. Come
spring, two more tries, ABC's Time After Time and Fox sitcom Making History,
will try to make viewers forget the past.

Superhero stars

Just when you though the Marvel and DC universes couldn't expand further, TV
found a way. Netflix has premiered Marvel's Luke Cage, its third of five planned
Marvel series, joining ABC's Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. (though Agent Carter was
canceled), and made plans for FX's Legion, Freeform's Cloak and Dagger and ABC's
The Inhumans, due next year. CW picked up its fifth DC Comics series, Supergirl,
from parent CBS, and AMC's Preacher and Fox's Lucifer surfaced. NBC will try a
half-hour comedy, Powerless, in 2017.

Diversity developments

In a year that saw the #OscarsSoWhite campaign criticize Hollywood for movies
that were too lily-white, TV painted a different picture with a record number of
major roles played by a diverse array of actors. Eighteen series had diverse
leads this fall, up from six in 2011. But the progress wasn't entirely
altruistic: Programmers say they recognized the economic value of reaching a
growing audience of minority viewers.

Awards show fatigue

Continuing a recent trend, awards shows are losing viewers. In 2016, the Oscars,
Emmys, American Music Awards, Country Music Association Awards and MTV's Video
Music Awards were at or near record lows.

Music's mixed bag

It was a tune-filled year on television. Four splashy musicals -- Fox's Grease
Live!, The Passion and Rocky Horror Picture Show remake, along with NBC's
Hairspray Live! -- had mixed results. HBO's Vinyl and Showtime's Roadies bombed
with one-and-done seasons. Fox's Empire crumbled 27%, but remained broadcast's
top drama among young adults. Netflix's costly Baz Luhrmann series, The Get
Down, led to budget fights. And ABC canceled Nashville, but CMT revived the
series for a fifth season.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Prashant Gupta, FX

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             134 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

What we know about Leia in next movie;
The Star Wars princess is now a general onscreen

BYLINE: Andrea Mandell, @andreamandell, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 337 words


The last time we saw Carrie Fisher onscreen, she was a general.

In Star Wars: The Force Awakens, it was Leia's loss of Han Solo (Harrison Ford)
we were grieving. But when Star Wars: Episode VIII hits theaters Dec. 15, 2017,
fans will be aching for Fisher, who died Tuesday after suffering a heart attack
during a flight four days earlier.

The Force remains tight-lipped about Fisher's role in the saga's upcoming
installments. For now, few details are available about how the actress figures
into the as-yet-untitled Episode VIII, though Fisher had completed her scenes
for the film, which wrapped up shooting in July.

USA TODAY has reached out to Disney and Lucasfilm for comment.

The Force Awakens, seen as a "little bit of a victory lap" for the original
cast, left Leia as a pivotal character, says Scott Huver, contributing writer
for Moviefone.com.

What is known about Episode VIII is that the main players of The Force Awakens
-- including Rey (Daisy Ridley), Finn (John Boyega) and Poe Dameron (Oscar
Isaac) -- will have their stories continue under writer/director Rian Johnson.

"We know that the movie is supposed to be darker than The Force Awakens in its
tone," says Huver. "I would assume we should anticipate an onscreen reunion
between Luke Skywalker (Mark Hamill) and Leia, given that he's going to be more
prominent in Episode VIII."

But what isn't known "is whether or not they had planned to put her in Episode
IX as well, or if she had signed to do future Star Wars movies," says Erik
Davis, managing editor for Fandango.com and Movies.com.

After a brief cameo (spoiler alert!) in the new standalone movie Rogue One: A
Star Wars Story, Leia plays a larger role in Episode VIII, Deadline reports.

And it's no small plot point that "the villain in the movie is still her son
Kylo Ren (Adam Driver) that she had with Han Solo," Davis adds. "If they have a
confrontation at all, you imagine that could be a pretty big one."

It remains to be seen if reshoots or script rewrites will take place for Episode
VIII or IX.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Lucasfilm

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             135 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Tighter security looms in Cologne for New Year's Eve;
City is still stinging from last year's mass assaults and thefts

BYLINE: Patrick Costello, Special for USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 750 words


The attack on a Christmas market Dec. 19 has heightened already planned efforts
by German authorities to step up security for Cologne's annual New Year's Eve
celebration to avoid a repeat of the mass sexual assaults and thefts that marred
last year's festivities.

"We have had a difficult year behind us, and a great challenge lies ahead,"
Cologne Police Chief Jürgen Mathies said. "The terror attack in Berlin has made
it clear to us all that a real danger exists."

Even before the truck rampage that killed 12 people and injured 48, Cologne
Mayor Henriette Reker planned to deploy 1,500 police officers -- more than 10
times last year's number -- and keep trained counselors on hand should any
harassment arise.

The Tunisian national sought in connection with the truck attack was killed
Friday in a shootout with police in Milan.

Mathies said police will carry machine guns on New Year's Eve, an unusual sight
in Germany. Truck barriers will go up where groups gather to watch fireworks.

Last year, men described by witnesses as "dark-skinned" foreigners allegedly
raped, groped and robbed women during the festivities in the city center.

The incident became an international scandal and lightning rod for opponents of
Chancellor Angela Merkel's open-door policies that welcomed nearly 1 million
migrants fleeing war and poverty in the Middle East, Africa and Asia in 2015.

Victims filed 1,222 criminal complaints, including 513 for sexual assault.
Cologne residents are still shocked at how police allowed the rampage to go on
and  spoke of it publicly only days later.

"People in Cologne were really surprised by the events and often felt very
unsafe afterward," said Richard Meermann, 28, a development consultant who lives
in downtown Cologne.

Last year, 140 officers were on duty, and police were caught off guard by
criminal activity that erupted near the Cologne Cathedral and main train
station.

Officials said this year will be different. "After the shocking attacks of last
year's New Year's Eve, we, as the city of Cologne, have learned lessons that
should ensure that Cologne can be experienced as it truly is: friendly, safe,
happy and with a sense of community," Reker said.

City officials banned firecrackers near the Gothic cathedral, added better
lighting and increased security checkpoints.

Those precautions run counter to the city's fun-loving, free-wheeling
personality. Cologne's Karneval -- Germany's equivalent to Mardi Gras --
attracts more than 1 million costumed revelers from across Europe annually for a
week before Lent.

"There's hardly another city in Germany that stands for tolerance and openness
like Cologne," said Roger Böcking, 29, who is from neighboring Aachen and works
in public relations. "The people here are warm and open-minded -- and very
optimistic."

That attitude has been put to the test by the mass violence a year ago. The
Public Prosecutor's Office opened 333 investigations, including 87 for sexual
assault. Charges were brought against 35 people, primarily for theft. Of those,
24 have been convicted, and one was acquitted because of a lack of evidence.

Five of the 35 were charged with sexual assault. A 21-year-old Iraqi and
26-year-old Algerian were found guilty of sexual harassment in July and received
one year of probation. Both had recently arrived in Germany, but officials
declined to say whether they were seeking asylum.

Critics said so few people were charged with sexual assault because of Germany's
antiquated and sexist criminal laws, which require victims to prove they tried
to resist for rape to be a punishable offense.

The German Women's Council, an umbrella organization of women's groups, said the
legal fallout from Cologne shows it was "easier to prosecute the theft of a
mobile phone than a grope at someone's crotch."

That outrage formed the backbone of a push for legal changes adopted this year,
activists said.

"Many politicians saw after the events in Cologne that there was a problem of
sexual violence in Germany," said Katja Grieger of BFF, an association of
women's counseling and rape crisis centers in Berlin. "The new law penalizes
sexual assaults when it's clear they were against the victim's will. Those who
simply ignore a 'No' are making themselves liable now."

Böcking doesn't expect fears of terror or another case of mass violence to put a
damper on this New Year's Eve.

"Everyone in Cologne is looking forward to another (festival) to ring in 2017,"
he said. "I am certain that we will all have a great time together."

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Photos by Oliver Berg, European Pressphoto Agency

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             136 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Carrie Fisher will forever be Star Wars royalty

BYLINE: Brian Truitt, @briantruitt, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 484 words


The nerds never got the cheerleader or the homecoming queen. No matter. We had a
princess.

Carrie Fisher, who died Tuesday at age 60,  had a long career in Hollywood,
appearing on TV shows and movies and even fostering a side gig as a best-selling
author. But ever since she blasted into sci-fi fans' hearts as one of the young
stars in George Lucas' original Star Wars, she was Princess Leia, the spunky and
sassy girl in hair buns who stared down Darth Vader and became a cinematic icon
for decades to come.

And as much as she was loath to admit it at times in those nearly 40 years,
Fisher loved Star Wars. She wrote as much in her memoir The Princess Diarist
this year and said so a year ago to USA TODAY, when she was out promoting her
role in Star Wars: The Force Awakens and deciding to do her interview happily
sprawled on a hotel bed with her ever-present French bulldog, Gary.

She was, by definition of the word, a hoot. In interviews, Fisher didn't just
talk, she held court.

"She's me and I'm her and it's kind of a Möbius strip," Fisher said of Leia, now
a general in the Resistance in The Force Awakens and the upcoming Episode VIII.

"I carry her around and I know her better than anybody else and we wear the same
clothes a lot of times. She's mine."

Fisher made her film debut with a small role in Warren Beatty's 1975 movie
Shampoo, but just as Star Wars went intergalactic in 1977, so did the actress.
She bantered with  Luke Skywalker (Mark Hamill), who we'd all learn was her
long-lost twin brother -- though we didn't know that when they smooched in
1980's The Empire Strike Back -- as well as with smuggling pilot Han Solo,
played by Harrison Ford. (Fisher came clean in The Princess Diarist that she and
Ford  had a three-month tryst in London while filming the first Star Wars.)

But Leia was a fighter, and that's what Fisher gave to her. She didn't back down
from the Empire. When Han and Luke rescue her, she's the one nonchalantly
picking up a blaster and going to town on Stormtroopers. When Jabba the Hutt
puts her in a metal slave bikini when she's trying save her man Han in Return of
the Jedi? Well, Leia choked him out good.

Fisher gave Leia her all, whether it was being feisty or simply fearless.

Fisher battled alcoholism, drug addiction, depression and bipolar disorder, yet
she was always honest and even self-deprecating about it in interviews and her
semi-autobiographical novel Postcards From the Edge and memoir Wishful Drinking.
The fanbase, the boys and girls and later men and women who would buy Leia
action figures and Leia Pez dispensers and Leia shampoo bottles, always cheered
her on.

"People bring me their kids like I'm going to bless them, but they're like 2
months old and they're already in a Princess Leia outfit," Fisher said. "I
always think they swallowed the outfit and gave birth to the kid wearing the
hairy earphones."

We love you, Carrie. But you knew.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Lucasfilm

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             137 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Outpouring of love for one 'feisty, wise and full of hope'

BYLINE: Carly Mallenbaum, @thatgirlcarly, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 395 words


Fans and friends took to social media to share memories of Carrie Fisher and
love for her iconic Star Wars character, Princess Leia.

The love was felt by Fisher's mother, Debbie Reynolds. Reynolds posted a note on
Facebook thanking "everyone who has embraced the gifts and talents of my beloved
and amazing daughter."

And members of Fisher's Star Wars family shared condolences.

Harrison Ford said in a statement: "Carrie was one-of-a-kind ... brilliant,
original. Funny and emotionally fearless. She lived her life, bravely. ...  We
will all miss her."

Director George Lucas said: "Carrie and I have been friends most of our adult
lives. She was extremely smart; a talented actress, writer and comedienne with a
very colorful personality that everyone loved. In Star Wars she was our great
and powerful princess -- feisty, wise and full of hope in a role that was more
difficult than most people might think. .... She will be missed by all."

Force Awakens director J.J. Abrams wrote that Fisher "was as brilliant and
beautiful, tough and wonderful, incisive and funny as you could imagine."

Mark Hamill tweeted that he was devastated by the loss. Co-stars Warwick Davis
(Wollivan) Anthony Daniels (C-3PO) and Peter Mayhew (Chewbacca) mourned on
Twitter, calling Fisher "the brightest light in every room she entered."

Samuel L. Jackson, who starred in Star Wars prequels, borrowed a famous line
from the films: "The light in The Galaxy is dimmed by the loss of our Princess
Leia. May The Force Be With Her!!"

William Shatner said he'd miss his "banterings" with Fisher.

Albert Brooks tweeted that he'd miss the "brilliantly funny, talented" Fisher's
humor.

Elizabeth Banks said  she -- and everyone -- loved the actress, because Fisher
was "so witty and provocative and unrelentingly interesting."

Anna Kendrick remembered the brilliant way Fisher reacted to a compliment:
"Carrie Fisher wore glitter in her hair. When I said I liked it, she ran her
fingers through it and lobbed a handful at me."

Margaret Cho tweeted: "We just lost a great ally for mental health and
addiction. Be strong, be as strong as she'd want you to be."

Sarah Paulson said "huge hearted Carrie" gave her advice she still follows.

Larry King called Fisher a "true gem."

George Takei poetically referenced Star Wars: "May her soul rest in eternal
peace, as we return her to the heavens, in a galaxy far, far away."

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo File photo by Brian To, FilmMagic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             138 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Hall voters shouldn't go soft on tainted Bonds, Clemens

BYLINE: Christine Brennan, cbrennan@usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 616 words


Baseball Hall of Fame ballots are due on New Year's Eve, and word is that voters
are getting a little misty-eyed over some of the most notorious cheaters in
sports history.

Ryan Thibodaux, who tracks the votes from qualifying members of the Baseball
Writers' Association of America (BBWAA), had collected 122 ballots as of Tuesday
night, a little more than a quarter of the estimated total of 435.

And he has big news: Voting for the pharmaceutical daily double of Barry Bonds
and Roger Clemens is way up this year, clocking in at 71.3% each on the ballots,
far greater than their 44.3% and 45.2%, respectively, last year -- and
dangerously close to the magic number of 75% that gains a player induction.

What's more, Manny Ramirez, who was suspended in 2009 and 2011 for using
performance-enhancing drugs, has burst out of the blocks in his first year of
eligibility by appearing on 32% of the early ballots.

If the Manny love stays strong, it could be a new record for first-year ballot
percentage in the PED division, easily outdistancing Bonds, Clemens, Mark
McGwire and Sammy Sosa. Plus, if Ramirez trends up as the others are now, he
could eventually become the first inductee into the Baseball Hall of Fame to
have been caught using a female fertility drug.

Could Babe Ruth say that? Ty Cobb? Hank Aaron? I think not.

What's going on here? When the BBWAA eliminated some older, inactive members
from Hall of Fame voting in the summer of 2015, it appears the group's revulsion
for cheaters might have gone out the door as well. The younger guys (and I do
mean guys almost exclusively) appear to be more lenient in how they view the
long-suffering drug cheats of the diamond, Bonds and Clemens in particular.

You talk to some of these voters, and it's not that they have fallen in love
with dopers, it's just that they sound a little confused. There are quite a few
players from the so-called steroid era in baseball (an era that we're still in)
who never officially tested positive because, unlike almost every other sport on
earth, MLB wasn't testing players until it was too late to catch many of its
worst cheaters.

So we think we know they cheated, and in some cases, we really do know, even if
officially we don't always know. Got it? Good. For reference purposes, Lance
Armstrong and Marion Jones, the two worst his-and-her cheaters this country has
produced, never failed a drug test either.

Some of these voters offer a simple plea. They wish the Hall of Fame or MLB or
someone in a position of authority would devise a set of standards to help them
figure out what to do with steroid era candidates.

Basically, the thinking goes, who are they to judge?

Well, if you sign up to be a Hall of Fame voter, judging is pretty much your job
description.

Baseball Hall of Fame voting is a big deal, no doubt, but I'm not sure it's
quite the conundrum some make it out to be. Election to the Baseball Hall of
Fame is not a right, it's a privilege. A voter who doesn't think the Hall of
Fame is the right spot for Bonds isn't depriving him of his right to be a U.S.
citizen, to earn a living or to buy a home where he wants. He's simply saying
Bonds is not worthy of this particular honor.

Let me give you an example from the Olympic world, which has been aware of PEDs
since the 1960s and on top of them (as much as anyone can be when the bad
chemists are way ahead of the good chemists) since the 1970s.

Ben Johnson was an accomplished sprinter in the 1980s before testing positive
for steroids at the 1988 Seoul Olympics. Is he a Hall of Famer?

How about Armstrong and Jones? Hall of Famers?

It sounds ridiculous to even ask, doesn't it?

Baseball Hall of Fame voters, the answer is simple. No. Every time, no.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Steve Mitchell, USA TODAY Sports USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             139 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.N. censure leaves Israel 'unfazed';
Despite world body's disapproval, construction of settlements in East Jerusalem
unabated

BYLINE: Jim Michaels, @jimmichaels, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 538 words


Israel plans Wednesday to approve construction of more than 600 housing units in
East Jerusalem, a move that defies last week's United Nations resolution
condemning Israeli settlements on land Palestinians claim as  an independent
state.

"We remain unfazed by the U.N. vote, or by any other entity that tries to
dictate what we do in Jerusalem," Deputy Mayor Meir Turgeman, who heads the
Jerusalem District Zoning Committee, told the daily newspaper Israel Hayom.

The controversy was triggered Friday, when the Obama administration broke with a
long U.S. tradition and abstained from a U.N. Security Council resolution
calling Israeli settlements on land claimed by Palestinians a "flagrant
violation" of international law. The United States has used its veto on the
Security Council to block similar measures.

President Obama has criticized settlements as an obstacle to peace with the
Palestinians.

The U.N. resolution was assailed by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
and other Israeli officials, who vowed construction of settlements would
continue. About 600,000 Israeli settlers live on land in the West Bank and East
Jerusalem that both Israel and Palestinians claim rights to.

The Israeli newspaper Haaretz reported that this year, 1,506 housing units have
been approved in East Jerusalem, compared with 395 last year.

Israeli  officials criticized the Obama administration for allowing the
anti-settlement resolution to pass.

David Keyes, a spokesman for Netanyahu, said Israel has "ironclad information"
that the White House helped draft the resolution. The Obama administration
denied the allegation.

Turgeman said he hopes "the new U.S. administration will support us, so we can
make up for the lack (of construction) during the eight years of the Obama
administration."

The deputy mayor referred to President-elect Donald Trump, who urged Obama to
veto the U.N. resolution and condemned the White House for abstaining. Trump
lashed out at the United Nations after the vote, calling it "a club for people
to get together, talk and have a good time."

Trump's choice for U.S. ambassador to Israel supports Israeli settlements and
the relocation of the U.S. Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, breaking from
long-standing U.S. policy that says the status of Jerusalem should be decided in
negotiations between Israel and Palestinians.

Israel has ruled out dividing its capital.

Haaretz said there has been a spike in approved construction in East Jerusalem
since Trump's election in November.

Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas weighed in Tuesday, saying he hopes an
upcoming Mideast conference in France will set a timetable for independence.

"The decision lays the foundation for any future serious negotiation ... and it
paves the way for the international peace conference slated to be held in Paris
next month," Abbas said, according to the Associated Press.

"We hope this conference comes up with a mechanism and timetable to end the
occupation," Abbas told a meeting of his Fatah party. "The (U.N. resolution)
proves that the world rejects the settlements, as they are illegal."

Peace talks have long been dormant as settlement activity continues, and
Palestinians have attacked Israelis with knives and other weapons.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Martial Trezzini, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             140 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Unity, peace at Pearl Harbor;
Obama and Japanese PM Abe honor the victims, make history at World War II site

BYLINE: David Jackson, @djusatoday, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 598 words


President Obama and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe paid emotional tribute
Tuesday to the thousands of Americans who lost their lives at Pearl Harbor 75
years ago, and said the strong relations between their two nations in the
decades since prove the power of reconciliation.

"Even the deepest wounds of war can give way to friendship and lasting peace,"
Obama said after welcoming his Japanese counterpart to the site of the attack
that drew the United States into World War II, a conflict that transformed
America into a global superpower.

Describing Pearl Harbor as "a sacred place," Obama said: "Here, in so many ways,
America came of age."

Abe, the first Japanese leader to pay a formal visit to Pearl Harbor, all but
apologized for the attack of Dec. 7, 1941, offering his "sincere and everlasting
condolences to the souls" of the more than 2,400 Americans who lost their lives
in the surprise attack.

"We must never repeat the horrors of war," Abe said.

The prime minister also thanked the United States for helping his nation recover
-- and develop a democracy -- in the years after World War II, which ended with
the U.S. atomic bomb attacks on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.

Obama visited Hiroshima in May, a trip Abe reciprocated with the ceremony at
Pearl Harbor.

Before their public remarks, Obama and Abe toured the memorial above the sunken
USS Arizona. They visited the "shrine room," placing wreaths of peace lilies in
front of a wall adorned with the names of American service members killed in the
attack. They later dropped purple flowers into the waters of the harbor.

The leaders also had a private meeting about U.S.-Japan relations, an alliance
they praised during their public remarks.

"It has helped underwrite an international order that has prevented another
world war," Obama said, and the U.S.-Japanese alliance "has never been
stronger."

Abe said the U.S. and Japan have become the kind of allies "rarely found
anywhere in history," a development he attributed to the "power of
reconciliation."

Changes in the alliance could be imminent as Donald Trump prepares to become
U.S. president on Jan. 20. During the campaign, Trump said Japan and other
countries are taking advantage of the U.S. when it comes to trade deals. He also
talked about demanding that Japan and other nations pay more for U.S. defense
assistance.

Publicly, Obama and Abe largely laid modern politics aside in speaking of those
who made the ultimate sacrifice at Pearl Harbor.

"Here in this quiet harbor," Obama said, "we honor those we lost, and we give
thanks for all that our two nations have won -- together, as friends."

Both Obama and Abe spoke of the sacrifices made by service members during the
conflict that engulfed the world less than a century ago.

The sight of the Arizona, its gutted hull at the bottom of the harbor, is "a
place that brought utter silence to me," Abe said.

At the time of the attack and over the years, some citizens in Japan described
the Pearl Harbor attack as retaliation for a U.S. oil embargo on their
energy-starved country. A previous Japanese prime minister made an unannounced
visit to Pearl Harbor in 1951, but Abe became the country's first leader to
participate in a ceremony at the attack site.

Obama may have made a reference to current events when he said that, even at
times "when hatred burns hottest," people "must resist the urge to demonize
those who are different."

Such are among the lessons of war, he said.

"The fruits of peace always outweigh the plunder of war," Obama said. "This is
the enduring truth of this hallowed harbor."

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo NICHOLAS KAMM, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             141 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Gregory gives Cowboys pass rush a lift, but suspension threat looms

BYLINE: Lorenzo Reyes, @LorenzoGReyes, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 659 words


The Dallas Cowboys got a boost to their pass rush.

But how much longer will that boost continue?

Defensive end Randy Gregory made his season debut in Monday night's 42-21
victory against the Detroit Lions after serving a 14-game suspension for
violating the NFL's substance abuse policy. The suspension was the combination
of two separate violations lumped together.

"I'm bolstered by the fact that a guy like Gregory can come in there and play,"
Cowboys owner and general manager Jerry Jones told reporters after Monday's
game. "We're not sure about his status for the playoffs, but we're encouraged to
see some of those young guys making plays."

That uncertainty looms after another failed test -- Gregory's second positive
result while he served his suspension -- emerged in November. Gregory is
appealing.

But now, after Dallas sacked Lions quarterback Matthew Stafford four times and
its pass rush looked as good as it has in weeks, Gregory is subject to a
year-long ban that could drop at any time.

"I don't know," Jones said. "I just don't know. We haven't known the situation.
We'll just see. Relative to these issues with the league with eligibility and
suspensions and that kind of thing, you can easily not know. By the very nature
of them, they're very confidential. You just don't know. ... Let's leave it at
that. I don't want to speculate. I'm just saying as excited as I am about
Gregory, I want to temper it a little bit."

Jones did say that he expects Gregory to play in the regular-season finale
Sunday against the Philadelphia Eagles, but he wouldn't venture a guess past
that.

Dallas' pass rush has been one of its biggest weaknesses this season. Gregory's
presence, though, adds depth to a position group that has been depleted by
injuries.

"Looked like he did a good job in the game," Cowboys coach Jason Garrett said
Tuesday in his news conference at the team facility. "Certainly trying to knock
some rust off. Hasn't played football in that long, but he did a really good job
in practice last week, getting himself ready to play, practiced with great
intensity and clearly working in different things.

"I thought as the game wore on he got better and better. But he did get a lot of
snaps in the game for his first time out. He showed up in the run game. He
showed up being around the quarterback."

Dallas ranks first in the NFL in rushing yards allowed (81.5per game), but the
most promising feature for the defense is that its pass rush has in recent weeks
shot up to a tie for 12th with 34 sacks.

Fellow defensive end Benson Mayowa called Gregory a "cheetah" after the
second-year pro posted two tackles Monday.

"That dude is so fast," Mayowa said. "He's probably the fastest guy I've seen
get off the ball."

Gregory, however, showed rust at times against the Lions. On one rush by Lions
back Zach Zenner, Gregory shot upfield trying to generate pressure only to leave
a void that Zenner soon filled en route to a 7-yard touchdown early in the game
that tied the score.

Gregory said he was hurting after  straining a side muscle in the first quarter
Monday, but he told Cowboys coaches and medical trainers he could play through
the discomfort.

"I wanted to get as many snaps as I could," Gregory said.

Those snaps might soon be taken from him. The NFL will hear Gregory's appeal in
January at the earliest, according to the NFL Network.

That timeline is actually favorable for him to get playing time early in the
postseason. But if the league concludes the appeal late in the month and Dallas
finds itself in a Super Bowl push, Gregory could be suspended just as quickly as
he was activated this week.

"That's out of my ballpark," Gregory said after Monday's game. "There is nothing
I can do about it. That type of stuff, I let Jerry and everyone else and people
like my agent handle it. As we go, we'll find out how everything's going to turn
out. As far as I know, I'm going to go out and play every week and do what I can
do to help the team."

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Matthew Emmons, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             142 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Failed promises sealed Ryan's fate with Bills

BYLINE: Lindsay H. Jones, @bylindsayhjones, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 573 words


The Buffalo Bills hired Rex Ryan to make the team a contender and true rival to
the New England Patriots in the AFC East.

But after nearly two full seasons, it became clear that vision wouldn't be
fulfilled. After another year out of the playoffs (that's 17 consecutive seasons
without a postseason appearance), Ryan's fate was sealed.

With an undisciplined defense and major questions at quarterback moving into
next season, the Bills are no closer to competing in the AFC East than they were
when Ryan was hired. Saturday's loss to the Miami Dolphins, who clinched a
playoff berth in Adam Gase's first year as coach, showed the Bills were indeed a
team trending downward.

When Ryan took over, the Bills were coming off a season in which they ranked No.
4 in total defense. The unit fell to 19th in his first season, the same spot it
occupies this season.

Two seasons might seem like a short lifespan for a head coach, but Ryan was a
proven entity when he arrived in Orchard Park. The Bills knew they were getting
a coach with a plus-sized personality and a reputation for crafting a
complicated and nasty defense. He promised playoffs and memorable battles with
Bill Belichick's Patriots and didn't deliver.

The run defense (133.5 yards allowed per game) is fifth worst in the NFL, in
part because of poor tackling. Those struggles were evident in the loss to the
Dolphins, as running back Jay Ajayi had his second 200-yard rushing day vs. the
Bills this season.

On a 57-yard run by Ajayi in overtime, the Bills defense had 10 men on the
field. Ryan accepted responsibility, calling it "the most ridiculous thing I've
ever seen."

When the Bills offense struggled, Ryan fired offensive coordinator Greg Roman
two weeks into the season. The offense rebounded under new coordinator Anthony
Lynn, who was named interim head coach Tuesday, but the defense didn't improve.
That was a sign that Ryan and his twin brother, Rob, who helped run the defense,
were on the hot seat.

The Bills also went 1-3 against the Patriots during Ryan's tenure. The lone win
came this season while Patriots quarterback Tom Brady was suspended.

It will be interesting now to see the market for Ryan, 54, after two failed
stints as a head coach. His personality makes him popular, but will another
owner take a chance on a coach who has never won a division title? Or will Ryan
be interested in taking a defensive coordinator job?

In September 2015, Ryan told USA TODAY Sports that Buffalo would be his last
coaching job, though he surely thought he would last more than two seasons with
the Bills at the time. "When my days are up, I'll turn it over to the younger
generation. I'm not going anywhere else," Ryan said.

Ryan now might be best suited for television, and the networks could engage in a
bidding war for his services. The Bills, meanwhile, are starting over again. The
new head coach will inherit a roster in flux, with more than 20 players set to
hit free agency, including cornerback Stephon Gilmore, linebacker Lorenzo
Alexander and wide receiver Robert Woods.

But the biggest question is at quarterback. Will the new head coach want to move
forward with Tyrod Taylor, who received a six-year, $90 million extension in
August? The structure of Taylor's contract essentially made it a one-year deal,
with a team option after this season.

Regardless of who the Bills hire and who that coach picks as quarterback, the
Bills must find stability at those two key spots.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             143 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Syria's civil war stains Obama's foreign policy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 534 words


Years after he left office, Bill Clinton finally admitted that one of his
greatest regrets was not sending a few thousand combat troops into Rwanda to end
the genocide in that  African country that left 800,000 people dead.

With the recent heart-wrenching scenes of devastation in Syria and its
second-largest city, Aleppo, you have to wonder if President Obama will suffer
similar remorse over 470,000 dead in that country's civil war. In the five years
since the war began, Obama rejected a number of military options, all short of
committing U.S. ground troops, that might have altered the conflict's
trajectory.

To review: The civil war was triggered in March 2011 when Syrian President
Bashar Assad launched a brutal crackdown against Arab Spring demonstrators. Five
months later, Obama called for Assad's removal but held back on quickly arming
the rebels, conscious of an American public weary of wars in Muslim countries
and at least initially confident that Assad would be forced from office the way
other Arab dictators had fallen.

A year later, Obama invoked his famous "red line" against Assad's use of
chemical weapons. But Assad, frustrated by a lack of battlefield successes,
crossed it anyway, launching a nerve agent attack on Damascus suburbs that
killed more than 1,400 people.

The Pentagon presented Obama with the option of launching Tomahawk cruise
missiles against Syrian air bases, command centers and units responsible for the
chemical attacks.

But Obama hesitated, abruptly choosing to seek  congressional authorization. The
delay gave the Russians an opening to negotiate removal of chemical weapons and
allow Assad's conventional military to remain intact.

As Syrians began fleeing the war in unprecedented numbers, Obama resisted
military options to create a safe zone with air cover to serve as a sanctuary
for fleeing families. This did not happen, and the refugees pushed on to Turkey
and beyond to Europe.

Obama's options narrowed sharply as Russian and Iranian forces arrived to help
Assad regain the initiative in the civil war last year. Even then, Secretary of
State John Kerry continued urging Obama to launch targeted missile attacks that
would give the diplomat some leverage during ceasefire negotiations. Still Obama
resisted, telling The Atlantic in March that "real power means you can get what
you want without having to exert violence."

Rwanda and Syria, as twin milestones of horror and presidential passivity, are
certainly not absolute equivalents. Rwanda was far less complicated, with a
poorly armed Hutu majority that posed little threat to American firepower.
Syria, by contrast, has a professional military, an air defense system and
powerful allies in Russia and Iran.

Yet Syria could easily go down as the Obama administration's greatest foreign
policy failure. Beyond nearly half-a-million dead, the vacuum created by
conflict helped give rise to the Islamic State terrorist group. The civil war
threw the lives of 13.5 million Syrians into crisis; 4.8 million flooded into
neighboring countries and  destabilized Europe.

Historians will long debate whether the U.S. could or should have done more in
Syria. Obama might well be haunted by those same questions.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Louisa Gouliamaki, AFP/Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             144 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Obama keeps it classy in last days as POTUS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 121 words


Letters

President Obama leaves a legacy of failure. He and his party have spent eight
years supporting fringe groups and ensuring the masses are ignored.

Lou Creola

I voted for Obama -- twice. I used to think he was doing a fairly good job under
difficult circumstances. But, when he voiced his support for Hillary Clinton, I
lost all respect for him.

Karen Scott

Facebook

If you're getting free or heavily subsidized insurance, Obama was great. If
you're paying more for others to get free or heavily subsidized insurance --
while getting less coverage for yourself -- he wasn't great.

Miguel Bfd

Worst president in history. This is what happens when you vote based on race,
gender or anything other than skill and talent.

Bob Gordon

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             145 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Trump can be president, businessman at once

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 427 words


Letters

Prior to the election, it seems like USA TODAY feared mentioning President-elect
Donald Trump's many holdings (and successes) overseas, preferring to concentrate
on his bankruptcies closer to home and other potential scandals.

Why is it that, as an avid reader of news, I was never made aware of the
potential conflicts of interest with Hillary Clinton until pointed out by third
parties -- I'm not talking about the possibility of scandals but actual
conflicts of interests with her foundation.

It's ludicrous of the main stream news media to "demand" the only viable
solution to Trump's international holdings  is to separate himself completely,
knowing such separation is almost impossible at this point.

Somehow the news media think Americans are surprised Trump is a successful
businessman around the globe. Attorneys and especially prosecutors conduct
investigations with a "wall" to ensure sometimes investigations don't collide or
collude. It would be very simple for the president-elect to erect such a "wall"
to isolate himself from conflicts of interest. The news media are so convinced
of past politicians (including the Clintons who got a pass) being bought. The
news media are intent on convincing the public that someone could operate
without such influence.

Randy Magee

Purvis, Miss.

Facebook

If it had been a legitimate charity it wouldn't have been a problem. Donald
Trump is just trying to divert attention from the huge conflicts his other
interests present.

Dave Phillips

Of course the foundation goes first, there's no money in it.

Kevin Skiles

Too bad the president-elect is dissolving the foundation. I was hoping Trump
would find that his presidential responsibilities got too much in the way of his
business interests and would resign. He is actually going to be president for
four years? It still doesn't register.

Larry Hurst

Twitter

We asked our followers their thoughts on what President-elect Trump should do
with his businesses and foundation to avoid conflicts of interest.

Close it now that he is an elected official. Reopen once out of office. No
conflicts of interest.

@TrollyDolly79

The foundation should be paused. We all saw how the Clintons seem to have sold
access. No politician should be able to sell favors through a loosely regulated
organization.

@MCage707

Retire all his companies or get out of the Oval Office!

@samanthsmith1

Appoint someone else (not in his bloodline) to handle all operations.

@DavyMacYT

Blind trust. He wanted the job? This is what comes with it.

@PandoraPushback

For more, follow @USATOpinion or #tellusatoday.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             146 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Our take: 10 best albums of 2016;
From Beyoncé and Kanye West's big 2016 releases to lesser-known albums that
stole our hearts, USA TODAY's and share their favorite 10 albums of the year.

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 716 words


A Tribe Called Quest We Got It From Here ... Thank You 4 Your Service

The hip-hop pioneers' sixth (and supposedly final) album is a resonant rallying
cry for acceptance as much it is a tribute to late member Phife Dawg, who died
this year and is featured on the record. Rapping over their signature funk and
boom-bap beats, the group celebrates blackness while railing against police
brutality and bigotry. "Dreaming of a world that's equal for women with no
division," Phife aspires on the political We the People. "Boy, I tell you that's
vision." -- P.R.

Anderson .Paak Malibu

The Oxnard, Calif., native (and newly anointed Grammy nominee for best new
artist) has delivered some of the year's most unforgettable features on Mac
Miller's Dang! and Kaytranada's Glowed Up. But his powerful, poetic album Malibu
reminds us that hip hop has no boundaries, as he joyously flaunts his lyrical
prowess and flow over a surge of jazz, funk and R&B. -- P.R.

Angel Olsen My Woman

On her career-best third studio album, the 29-year-old musician shakes off the
"folk" label that's nipped at her heels since her early career. The sweeping
sonic narrative of My Woman begins by paying homage to Liz Phair and Sheryl
Crow's sharp guitar rock, before spiraling into woozy heartbreak in its
masterful second half, all anchored by Olsen's unmistakable warbling voice. --
M.M.

Carly Rae Jepsen Emotion Side B

When Carly Rae Jepsen's critically-adored album Emotion came out last year, it
almost seemed like a fluke that the bubbly voice behind Call Me Maybe was
responsible for the best pop album of the year. It's testament to her innate pop
sensibilities that Emotion Side B, an eight-song collection of outtakes, is
stronger than full-length albums by artists far more famous. -- M.M.

Chance the Rapper Coloring Book

It's hard not to root for Chance, the 23-year-old rapper who became the first
unsigned artist with a streaming-only album in the top 10. While many members of
rap's older generation of stars spent their 2016 albums wrestling with the dark
trappings of fame, Coloring Book was all love, sunshine, gospel music and God, a
bright spot in a year that needed all the positivity Chance could provide. --
M.M.

Kanye West  The Life of Pablo

In the 10 months since its release, Pablo has been mired by the rap icon's messy
rollout, Taylor Swift fracas, canceled tour and disappointing politics. But none
can negate the fact that West is at the peak of his powers here, whisking
bombast (Famous), pathos (Saint Pablo), soulfulness (Ultralight Beam) and satire
(I Love Kanye) into a potent musical elixir. -- P.R.

Zhu  Generationwhy

Major Lazer (Cold Water) and The Chainsmokers (Closer) may have gotten all the
airplay for their innocuous EDM hits, but it was Zhu who stealthily turned in
the most spellbinding dance album of the year. Generationwhy is the full-length
debut of the elusive Chinese-American producer, who has been dubbed the "next
Daft Punk" for his blend of pulsing house beats and brooding pop melodies. --
P.R.

Beyoncé Lemonade

Lemonade didn't need to be as good as it is. Thanks to Beyoncé's staggering
level of fame, it's likely she still would've released an eye-popping short
film, and embarked on a similarly successful world tour, and even walked away
with a few Grammy nominations, off a more mediocre album. But thankfully, the
singer's sixth album earns these accolades, a veritable resume of pop music
archetypes -- piano ballads, country and rock 'n' roll influences, jilted-lover
anthems, protest songs -- that's engaging at every turn. -- M.M.

Rihanna  ANTI

She did tell us that she was a savage. Few people were clamoring for Rihanna to
trade her clubby hits for moody R&B and Tame Impala covers. But she made ANTI
anyway, a collection of songs with enough radio favorites (Needed Me, Work, Sex
With Me) to keep fans engaged, and enough curveballs to get critics excited. --
M.M.

Glass Animals How to Be a Human Being

2016 was a strong year for emerging artists A$AP Ferg (Always Strive and
Prosper), Flume (Skin) and AlunaGeorge (I Remember), all of whom deftly avoided
the sophomore slump with their new albums. But no return felt as welcome as
Glass Animals', who didn't shake things up on their second outing so much as
refine their tribal pop/rock formula to thrilling results. -- P.R.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Joshua Paul, AP for NARAS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             147 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

BYLINE: Maria Puente@usatmpuenteUSA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 664 words


Carrie Fisher, who became a young star playing a princess in Star Wars, died
Tuesday after a heart attack suffered on a flight from London to Los Angeles on
Friday. Fisher was 60.

"She was loved by the world, and she will be missed profoundly. Our entire
family thanks you for your thoughts and prayers," Chelsea Hayes, a rep for
Fisher's daughter, Billie Lourd, said in a statement Tuesday.

Fisher suffered a medical emergency on a United Airlines flight before landing
at Los Angeles International Airport on Friday.  Efforts were made to revive
her, according to a series of tweets from other passengers. She was taken to  a
hospital in L.A., where she died four days later.

The actress and author had been on tour to promote her latest memoirs, The
Princess Diarist, based on the diaries she kept as a 19-year-old shooting what
is arguably the biggest movie of all time, 1977's Star Wars. Fisher played Rebel
Alliance leader Princess Leia Organa, she of the famous double-bun hairstyle.

Her books, whether novels or memoirs, were funny, sharp and revealing. Among
other things, her latest revealed her brief affair with co-star Harrison Ford,
who was 14 years older and married with kids when they made Star Wars.

The actress was back onscreen playing Princess Leia in Star Wars: The Force
Awakens in 2015 and Star Wars: Episode VIII, which is in post-production. She,
Ford and others in the original cast again found themselves walking red carpets,
taking bows and taking Star Wars questions.

Fisher, as always, was accompanied by her little French bulldog, Gary, the pooch
who helped her cope with lifelong anxieties -- later diagnosed as bipolar
disorder -- that helped lead to her problems with substance abuse.

Carrie Frances Fisher grew up marinated in Old Hollywood, loving and loathing
it, embracing and rejecting it, always coming back to it as it evolved into New
Hollywood.

She was the daughter of crooner Eddie Fisher and Singin' in the Rain star Debbie
Reynolds and was born in 1956 in Beverly Hills. Less than three years later,
Eddie ran off to marry Elizabeth Taylor. It was a blow her mother eventually
recovered from, but Carrie -- not so much.

As a teen, Fisher had a small role in Warren Beatty's 1975 comedy, Shampoo, but
Star Wars changed everything for her, blasting her into a star galaxy far, far
away from what even her parents had known.

Fisher had a small but memorable gun-toting role in the 1980 comedy The Blues
Brothers -- Fisher was at one time engaged to star Dan Aykroyd -- and also
appeared in Hannah and Her Sisters (1986), When Harry Met Sally ... (1989) and
Austin Powers: International Man of Mystery (1997). Most recently, Fisher had a
guest spot as an American mom on the British TV series Catastrophe, streaming on
Amazon.

In 1987, she published her first novel, Postcards From the Edge, a
semiautobiographical satire of her real-life struggles with drug addiction in
the late 1970s and her relationship with her mother. It was a best seller and
was made into a movie starring Meryl Streep and Shirley MacLaine.

In addition to her daughter, Fisher is survived by her mother,
singer/dancer/actress Debbie Reynolds; her brother, Todd Fisher; and two half
sisters. Her brief marriage to singer/songwriter Paul Simon ended in divorce in
1984.

Never shy about speaking her mind, she was open and often brutally honest in
interviews and her books, discussing her love/hate dynamic with fans, her place
as a geek goddess and that slave bikini she had to wear in 1983's Return of the
Jedi.

Throughout her up-and-down movie career, she remained a product of Hollywood who
could step back and explain its history and rituals to the outsiders, always
ready with a caustic comment or pointed joke.

Hollywood could be exasperating and brutal, but it was still hers.

She felt somewhat the same about Leia. As she told USA TODAY last year, "I carry
her around, and I know her better than anybody else, and we wear the same
clothes a lot of times.

"She's mine. She's mine!"

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Robert Deutsch, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             148 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

News in brief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 377 words


GOP eyes 2018 Senate race in Wis. against Baldwin

Emboldened by last month's triumphs in Wisconsin, Republicans are sizing up
their next big target, taking on Democratic U.S. Sen. Tammy Baldwin in 2018.

The race against Baldwin is likely to be among the fiercest in the next election
cycle. Senate Democrats have to defend 23 seats nationally.

Republicans are eager to turn Wisconsin a bright shade of red, building on the
momentum of this year's wins by President-elect Donald Trump and Republican Sen.
Ron Johnson.

State Senate Majority Leader Scott Fitzgerald of Juneau  is considering  a run.

--Bill Glauber,

Milwaukee Journal Sentinel

Trump appoints adviser on counterterrorism

Starting the post-Christmas phase of his transition, President-elect Donald
Trump made appointments Tuesday devoted to national security -- particularly
cyberdefense -- and to international trade and diplomacy.

Thomas Bossert, who worked in George W. Bush's administration, will be the White
House homeland security and counterterrorism adviser, and Trump Organization
official Jason Greenblatt will be "special representative for international
negotiations," Trump announced.

Bossert "brings enormous depth and breadth of knowledge and experience to
protecting the homeland to our senior White House team," Trump said in a
statement.--David Jackson

Transgender boy, 8, barred from Cub Scouts

From the moment he joined the organization, Joe Maldonado, 8, eagerly looked
forward to camping trips and science projects as a member of the Cub Scouts. His
expectations were dashed after his mother said she received a phone call from a
Scouting official who told her Joe would no longer be allowed to participate
because he was born a girl. Kristie Maldonado said she was stunned because her
son had been a member of Cub Scout Pack 87 in Secaucus for about a month, and
his transgender status had not been a secret.

Some parents complained, an official from the Northern New Jersey Council of the
Boy Scouts told her -- even though her son has been living as a boy for more
than a year and was accepted as a boy at school, Maldonado said.

Joe's case may be the first time someone has been barred from participating in
Scouting because they are transgender.

--Abbott Koloff,

The (Bergen County) Record

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Amer Almohibany, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             149 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Rousey shunning the spotlight;
Media-shy act a dilemma for UFC

BYLINE: Martin Rogers, mjrogers@usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 658 words


"Where's Ronda?" is the most popular game in Sin City this week, as the Ultimate
Fighting Championship's best-known female superstar has found a way to be
everywhere and nowhere at the same time.

You can't miss Ronda Rousey's face amid the neon of The Strip, with signage
signaling her impending return to violent pursuits dotted all over town and
emblazoned on the shiny facade of T-Mobile Arena.

Yet unless you enter that venue Friday night, you might not get a glimpse of
Rousey all week, with the UFC having been forced to go to extreme lengths to
accommodate her newfound phobia of publicity.

Rousey fights for Amanda Nunes' bantamweight title belt in the main event, the
strap she spectacularly relinquished in November 2015, sunk by a flurry of
punches and a brutal kick to the side of the face by Holly Holm.

Rousey hasn't been spotted much since, and even the days leading up to her
return have been no different. A year ago it could be said that Rousey had never
met a tape recorder she didn't like, making herself available for an exhausting
multitude of interviews and rarely shunning an opening to promote herself and
her sport.

Defeat can change a fighter, but her shift in media policy has been the most
drastic change of all since she collapsed to the canvas in Melbourne, Australia.
Rousey did a couple of softball interviews including The Ellen DeGeneres Show
over the last two months and precisely nothing else. She will skip the UFC 207
media day Wednesday and even bailed on  the UFC's in-house Embedded video blog
series.

The UFC's new ownership group, headed by WME-IMG, also represents Rousey. It
plunked down $4.2 billion because it thought it had a decent chance of making a
sizable return, which in turn means the former champ, one of the biggest money
spinners in the organization, will get certain concessions that are not afforded
to others.

"They're supposed to force you to do it, but I don't know what happened," Nunes
said Tuesday before being asked what would have happened if she had decided to
skip media obligations. "I think they would make me do it. OK, they love Ronda
Rousey. What are you going to do? Kick her ass."

This all has the potential of painting the UFC into a corner. Remember when
Conor McGregor got booted out of UFC 200, which then shaped up to become the
biggest card in mixed martial arts history?

McGregor's infraction was that he wouldn't take a long flight to Las Vegas from
his training base in Iceland to participate in a news conference to promote the
event. But Rousey, not taking a few steps down Las Vegas Boulevard to mumble a
few words? No problem. Given how McGregor is growing increasingly vocal in his
wish to be treated deferentially, this week's allowances are unlikely to sit
well with the Irishman.

Scaling back on media duties is one thing. Rousey's popularity meant the demands
on her time before she lost to Holm were excessive, and ultimately
counterproductive. Some kind of correction was clearly necessary and
appropriate.

But a direct and deliberate refusal to be seen or heard creates a tricky
scenario for the UFC. Perhaps more immediately, it has caused some to question
Rousey's mental readiness. Nunes has drawn strength and encouragement from it,
thinking it means Rousey is still so scarred by the Holm loss that she cannot
bear to put herself in a situation where she might be quizzed about it.

"I don't know what is wrong with this girl, I'm going to be honest with you,"
Nunes said. "If she wants to play these games, she's playing with the wrong
person. I'm very focused, and I know how I'm going to stop her. I can't wait."

Ultimately it is not words but actions that will determine the outcome of the
fight. Yet if body language plays a factor, then it tells a story of its own.
Bold, confident Nunes smiling her way through Vegas will give her supporters
optimism while Rousey sits absent somewhere, still tied -- at least for now --
to her most crushing defeat.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Michael Reaves, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             150 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

10 Best Films of 2016;
USA TODAY film critic tackled a year full of unnecessary sequels, talking
animals and countless mediocre projects with A-list actors to put together his
top 10. Let's start with 2016's best movie, which happens to be a
thought-provoking work that involves talking to aliens.

BYLINE: Brian Truitt

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 626 words


THE REST OF THE TOP 10

(in alphabetical order)

Captain America: Civil War

Marvel is again the class act of the comic-book ranks, with the superhero battle
to end all superhero battles involving an airport, a Spider-Man, a Giant-Man and
a Star Wars reference. But the movie at its core is a powerful narrative about
personal freedoms and one man having the back of his best pal.

Everybody Wants Some!!

Just as Richard Linklater introduced the world to Matthew McConaughey and Ben
Affleck in Dazed and Confused, the filmmaker debuts a stable of future stars --
including Glen Powell, Tyler Hoechlin and Wyatt Russell -- in a baseball comedy
with more deep thoughts than double plays.

Hidden Figures

The 1960s space-race drama is as important as it is feel-good with Taraji P.
Henson, Octavia Spencer and Janelle Monáe combining talents as a trio of black
mathematicians who helped America reach for the stars and put in place anybody
who dared to underestimate their talents.

La La Land

Ryan Gosling and Emma Stone are luminous in the old-school Hollywood musical
done magically right in modern day. La La Land is a grand love story boosted by
a moving soundtrack, a dreamer's heart and a bittersweet epilogue that shows how
one kiss can affect an entire life.

Manchester by the Sea

The ticket should come with a warning label: "This film causes extreme crying
and laughter." The drama taps a spectrum of emotions as it explores a family
dealing with death in the present but also in its tragic past. Casey Affleck and
Michelle Williams are phenomenal, but Lucas Hedges is the kid who makes it
special.

Moana

Thanks to my 4-year-old daughter, I've seen Disney's musical adventure at least
25 times now, and it's still just as good as the first because of Auli'i
Cravalho's spunky title adventurer, Dwayne Johnson's cocky demigod sidekick and
Lin-Manuel Miranda's instant classic show tunes.

Moonlight

Director Barry Jenkins' stunning movie experiments with conventions of a
three-act narrative as it explores the maturation of a gay black man from lost
child to bullied teenager to intimidating drug dealer. It's impossible not to
root for the character, and the film earns its ending like perhaps no other in
2016.

Sing Street

Irish eyes are smiling and singing in John Carney's sparkling coming-of-age
musical tale. Boy meets girl, boy puts a band together to impress girl, and both
find themselves broken in ways they never knew. The young romance and a bunch of
'80s-influenced tracks make the film a smile-inducing delight.

The Witch

Only in this Puritan horror movie would the disappearance of a  baby be the
least scary thing about it. Anya Taylor-Joy proves herself a female force as a
teenage girl struggling as her family crumbles, and the goat Black Phillip joins
the likes of Freddy and Jason as a fright-fest icon.

MOVIE OF THE YEAR

Arrival

If  flying orbs suddenly scooted into our atmosphere and randomly hovered over a
dozen cities, most likely we'd freak out first, ask them questions later. In
Arrival, though, a linguistics expert (Amy Adams) and a theoretical physicist
(Jeremy Renner) are  tapped to determine why aliens are here and figure out
their  language.

There's a lot of beauty to be had in director Denis Villeneuve's sci-fi film:
the  landscape of a world made wondrous with these spacecraft; the inky circular
splotches given meaning like alien text messages; and the  flashbacks that paint
a loving picture of the linguist and the daughter she loses too early.

Extraterrestrials aside, Arrival explores how miscommunication is a part of
human nature to be overcome while at the same time being a cinematic poem about
choosing life and love when despair and loss are inevitable. It's a work that
doesn't just invite multiple viewings but requires them.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jan Thijs

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             151 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Notable Media figures in '16;
he media world in 2016 was rife with the kind of insider drama that would have
made for juicy movie plots. Media moguls found themselves embroiled in power
struggles. Broadcast executives and anchors generated news of their own -- some
of which they'd surely prefer to keep off the air. The presidential campaign
revealed the crucial and constantly evolving role the media plays in not only
reporting, but also making news on its own. And social media channels emerged as
a forceful player in national politics. Here's a look at the biggest names in
media from the last 12 months:

BYLINE: Roger Yu and Mike Snider @ByRogerYu, @mikesnider USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 839 words


Megyn Kelly

She cemented her place as an influential  broadcaster  with her well-reviewed
performance as a debate moderator and by standing her ground against Donald
Trump, who fired back at her with what many thought to be sexist remarks. She
became one of the voices supporting  Gretchen Carlson and detailed sexual
harassment she allegedly endured from Roger Ailes in her  book, Settle for More.
She remains a ratings star  and could be in line for a hefty pay raise -- at Fox
or another network.

Shari Redstone

With the help of her lawyers, the daughter of billionaire media mogul Sumner
Redstone seized control of Viacom this year by forcing out embattled CEO
Philippe Dauman, whom she distrusted and considered ineffective, and remaking
its board with new members. While her father is nominally the CEO of the family
company that controls Viacom and CBS, National Amusements, Sumner Redstone is 93
and in frail health. It's widely believed  Shari Redstone is firmly in charge
and will be an influential voice in the direction of the two companies. She
remains on the board of Viacom after her father announced this month that he
will resign his place after the company's annual meeting in February. Sumner
Redstone continues to be on the CBS board.

Randall Stephenson

The AT&T chairman and CEO aims to build a vertical integrated communications and
content giant with its  $85.4 billion bid to acquire Time Warner, home of HBO,
CNN and TNT. During the presidential campaign, then-candidate Trump said he
would block the merger, but a more congenial president-elect has increased
optimism for its approval. Last month, AT&T launched its cord cutter-targeting
DirecTV Now television service delivered over the Internet -- a spinoff of the
satellite TV provider DirecTV it acquired in 2014.

Jack Dorsey

Twitter, which Dorsey helped co-found, got plenty of traction during the
election cycle and a lot of attention from Trump's near-constant tweeting habit.
Election Day's 75 million-plus election-related tweets was a  record for
Twitter. The incoming president's use of the outlet "as a direct line of
communication allows everyone to see what's on his mind, in the moment. I think
that's interesting," Dorsey has said. What would be more interesting to
shareholders would be for Dorsey to find a way to help the struggling social
network profit from the president-elect's usage.

Philippe Dauman

The former chairman and CEO of Viacom was forced to leave in August after six
years atop the media company after a power struggle with Shari Redstone. Dauman,
who has known her father, Sumner Redstone, for decades, had portrayed Shari
Redstone as an estranged daughter returning only to seize control of Viacom. But
in settling, Dauman conceded to the realities of corporate ownership and the
family's waning trust in his ability. His  takeaway? $93 million.

Nick Denton

The controversial journalist-turned-media entrepreneur declared bankruptcy in
August after his company, Gawker Media, was sued by retired pro wrestler Hulk
Hogan for publishing a sex tape of him. Hogan, financially backed by Silicon
Valley investor Peter Thiel, pressed on with the expensive lawsuit and won a
$115million judgment, resulting in Gawker.com's demise. Univision bought
Gawker's other assets out of bankruptcy for $135 million.

Roger Ailes

In July, the Fox News CEO left the media enterprise he helped build under the
direction of billionaire mogul Rupert Murdoch in the wake of sexual harassment
claims. The story may not fade anytime soon, as there's word a Hollywood film
about Ailes may be in the works.

Gretchen Carlson

The former Fox broadcaster single-handedly ended the turbulent but profitable
reign of  Ailes in July, and the network's parent, 21st Century Fox, apologized
and agreed to pay her $20 million to settle a sexual harassment lawsuit.  After
her lawsuit, other women stepped forward to accuse Ailes of harassment, forcing
Fox to fire Ailes, albeit with a hefty severance package.

Mark Zuckerberg

Facebook came under fire for allowing the proliferation of fake news stories
that were shared over the social network. An analysis by BuzzFeed found  fake
stories outperformed real news stories during the final three months of the
campaign cycle. Even though Zuckerberg, the company's chairman, CEO and
co-founder, called it "extremely unlikely" fake news changed the election
outcome, the company has made changes to make it easier for users to flag fake
news and tell whether a shared news story is legit.

Jeff Zucker

The CNN president, who brought  Trump's The Apprentice to TV in 2004 while he
served as NBC Universal CEO, found himself defending the cable news network's
coverage of Trump's campaign. Many critics said CNN's airing of full-length
Trump rallies helped him win the nomination. Zucker said, could he do it  over
again, he might air less unedited footage from Trump events. In a new book,
Unprecedented: The Election That Changed Everything, Zucker said CNN realized
before other media outlets "that Trump had much broader appeal."

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Ailes by Charles Sykes, AP
Kelly and redstone by Kevin Winter, Getty Images for The Hollywood Reporter
Zuckerberg by Lluis Gene, AFP/Getty Images
Carlson by Richard Drew, AP by Kevin Winter, Getty Images for

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             152 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 28, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Working around INJURIES yields success

BYLINE: Sam Amick, @sam_amick, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 5C

LENGTH: 1004 words


It's that time of year again in the NBA.

The list of injuries grows longer, with teams forced to fill holes in the most
creative ways while trying not to lose ground in the playoff race. With the New
Year nearing and so many coaches hoping their health resolutions come true,
here's a look at some of the most relevant injury situations in the league and
what we've learned as a result of them.

Cleveland Cavaliers

As the Cavs showed in their first three games without J.R. Smith after he broke
his right thumb -- averaging 113.7 points in wins vs. the Milwaukee Bucks,
Brooklyn Nets and Golden State Warriors -- they can score fine without the
starting shooting guard who might not be back until the end of the regular
season. One fascinating wrinkle: His replacement, journeyman DeAndre Liggins, is
proving quite capable with a defense-first style.

The Cavs are at their defensive best when Liggins is on the floor, as he has a
team-high defensive rating of 98.7 points allowed per 100 possessions during
that time. He does not score much -- 2.7 points per game -- but they don't need
him to.

Not bad for a 28-year-old who signed a partially guaranteed, two-year, $2
million deal with Cleveland three months ago, when it was negotiating with Smith
en route to his four-year, $57 million payday. Smith, whose defensive rating of
104.6 is seventh on the team, was having a down year. His scoring was down from
12.4 points a game to 8.6, and his three-point percentage was down from 41.5 to
33.7.

Los Angeles Clippers

Somewhere along the way, the Clippers ticked off the basketball gods. Blame
their shamed former owner, Donald Sterling, or just good, old-fashioned bad
luck, but the injury bug that haunted them last season is back again in a big
way. And as was the case the last time around, when Chris Paul's and Blake
Griffin's seasons were cut short four games into the postseason, their dynamic
duo is on the bench again.

Griffin had arthroscopic surgery on his right knee Dec. 20 and is expected to
miss three to six weeks. Paul has missed the last three games because of a
hamstring strain, and the Clippers fell to three of the league's worst teams in
the process (the Dallas Mavericks, Los Angeles Lakers and Denver Nuggets).

Considering Paul and Griffin can be free agents this summer, along with shooting
guard J.J. Redick, the stakes couldn't be higher for the Clippers. Yet after
starting the season atop the NBA at 14-2, they find themselves in fourth place
in the Western Conference (22-11) and have lost four of their last six games.

Last season, they went 31-15 without Griffin during his absence. In the six
seasons since Paul came to town, they're 25-21 when he's not on the floor. Paul,
who has played in 88.5% of the possible regular-season games in that span, is
questionable to play in Wednesday's game against the New Orleans Pelicans.

Houston Rockets

Clint Capela lacks the name recognition of his predecessor Dwight Howard, but he
was quickly proving to be a better fit for the Rockets before breaking his left
leg against the Minnesota Timberwolves on Dec. 17. The 22-year-old center was
averaging 11.8 points, 8.0 rebounds and 1.6 blocks per game while playing so
well off of MVP candidate James Harden, but he must wait until mid-January to be
re-evaluated.

The good news for Houston, which entered Tuesday as the third-best team in the
West at 23-9? His replacement, second-year big man Montrezl Harrell, is turning
heads. In the first four games without Capela, Harrell -- who was drafted 32nd
by the Rockets -- averaged 14.0 points (hitting 24 of 35 shots, 68.6%), 4.8
rebounds, 1.8 assists and 1.3 blocks while posting the team's third-highest
plus-minus mark (+9.5) as the Rockets went 2-2.

An assist goes to Mike D'Antoni, the first-year Rockets coach who is reminding
the league that he's one of the most creative offensive minds the game has seen.
The Rockets are third in offensive rating (111.4), behind only the Warriors and
Toronto Raptors.

Oklahoma City Thunder

Losing Kevin Durant in free agency last summer came with an obvious ripple
effect for the Thunder: They would struggle to score without him. So when
shooting guard Victor Oladipo went down with a right wrist injury Dec. 11 and
the Thunder responded to the loss of Russell Westbrook's new sidekick with
lackluster losses at the Portland Trail Blazers and Utah Jazz, it was fair to
wonder if Oklahoma City was about to go off the rails.

Cue the Westbrook-to-the-rescue music -- again.

Since the back-to-back losses, and entering Tuesday's matchup against the Miami
Heat, Westbrook had averaged 38.0 points (48.4% shooting overall, 40.0% from
three-point range), 12.4 assists and 10.0 rebounds as the Thunder went 4-1. With
the Thunder (19-12) sitting at No. 5 in the West, the timetable for Oladipo's
return has not been set.

"The major problem for him is shooting," Thunder coach Billy Donovan told
reporters Monday. "That's the biggest problem, because he just has a really hard
time following through. And especially the farther he moves away from the
basket, the more painful it is for him. The more he has to flick his wrist,
that's where he struggles."

All in all, the offensive struggles will be a season-long challenge for the
Thunder. After finishing second in offensive rating last season (109.9 points
scored per 100 possessions), they are 16th (104.5).

Utah Jazz

At 18-13 entering Tuesday, the Jazz would have qualified as a surprise team this
season, even if injuries weren't part of their story.

But factor in the extended absences to key players such as George Hill (20 games
and counting because of thumb and toe injuries), Derrick Favors (15 games missed
because of a knee injury) and Alec Burks (hasn't played this season after Nov. 1
ankle surgery), and it's downright shocking what coach Quin Snyder and his group
have been able to accomplish.

Now, we finally might see what they can do when they're healthy. While Favors
has been back since Dec. 14, Hill and Burks took part in practice Monday and
appear close to returning.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Nelson Chenault, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             153 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Driveway sealants are turning streams toxic

BYLINE: Don Behm, Milwaukee Journal Sentinel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 340 words


Coal-tar sealants applied to blacktop parking lots and driveways are the primary
source of toxic chemicals found in the muck at the bottom of area waterways,
according to a study from the U.S. Geological Survey and the Milwaukee
Metropolitan Sewerage District.

Tests of muck samples collected at 40 locations along 19 creeks and rivers in
the metropolitan area and dust from six parking lots found that coal-tar
sealants contributed up to 94% of all polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, or PAHs,
in streambed sediment, according to the study, published Thursday in the journal
Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry.

Fully 78% of the samples contained enough PAHs to be considered toxic and
capable of causing adverse effects in aquatic animals, said Austin Baldwin, a
USGS scientist and lead author of the study.

Rain and melting snow rinse PAHs and other contaminants off the pavement and
into stormwater storage basins or directly into storm sewers that carry the load
to waterways.

Even before the study was published, early circulation of its findings boosted
support for local restrictions or  bans on the use of coal-tar sealants and a
switch to sealants containing asphalt emulsions, said Chris Magruder, a retired
Milwaukee sewer district scientist who is science advisory committee coordinator
for the Southeastern Wisconsin Watersheds Trust.

Coal tar, a byproduct of converting coal to coke, is a solid-carbon fuel and
carbon source for the steelmaking industry, and it's a known human carcinogen.

As coal is heated to produce coke, coal tar vapors are released.

Pavement sealants made with coal tar contain much higher concentrations of PAHs
-- up to 1,000 times more -- than available substitute products made with
asphalt emulsions, according to other studies.

Asphalt sealant products are known as seal coats.

They are used to improve the appearance and maintain the surface of parking lots
and driveways.

As of this month, Milwaukee's sewer district no longer allows its contractors to
use coal-tar sealants for sewer district projects.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             154 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Escaping Aleppo, at last;
Evacuations sent a positive signal of what negotiations can achieve

BYLINE: Jan Egeland

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 655 words


I held my breath as each convoy carried Aleppo's remaining civilians to safety.

Syria's war has taught me many bitter lessons. One of the hardest to stomach is
that the parties controlling this conflict commit, spin and justify massacres as
they unfold on our television screens.

Last week, terrorists set ablaze six aid buses on their way to evacuate
civilians from two other besieged towns, Foua and Kefraya. The attack
temporarily halted all of the parallel evacuation operations. Aleppo lies at the
bloodied heart of Syria's six-year savage conflict. The rules of war have been
trampled on here like nowhere else.

The evacuations pushed on regardless. More than 34,000 people were evacuated in
all. Many had been sleeping on the streets in freezing temperatures waiting to
be evacuated. We had to seize this moment.

Too many lives were depending on it.

The heart of Syria's largest city has been in a crossfire for four harrowing
years. Warring parties too often prevented humanitarians from entering. Families
trapped inside were unable to escape.

The United Nations asked me in 2015 to chair a group of member states,
co-chaired by the United States and Russia, that committed to help humanitarians
gain access to Syrian civilians, including those in Aleppo.

Time and again, we were given guarantees by the warring parties and their
international sponsors that humanitarians could deliver aid. Time and again, the
government of any one party in the battlefield would reverse that decision. We
would be powerless to save lives.

bargaining chip

This is how Syria's game of war is played. Aid is used as a political bargaining
chip. One side allows access, just for one of the others to prevent it with
conditions the other side will refuse to accept. And so civilians continue to
lose and suffer.

The consequences for innocent families have been disastrous. Medical operations
have taken place in bombed out basements without anesthesia. Children have bled
to death, while we begged for evacuations to hospitals that would have saved
their lives.

We are witnessing the worst war in our generation. The U.N. system set up to
prevent massacres utterly failed Syria. We have all failed Syria.

Aleppo is not the only besieged city in this brutal conflict. Some 700,000
people outside Aleppo are encircled in 15 other areas. The current evacuation
agreement covers only four.

There is intense diplomatic activity within the international community and
within the international Syria support group to reach all of the remaining
blockaded areas of the country. In November and December permits were given, but
then access was prevented by bureaucrats, militias and those who hold the power
strings of this war.

This has to change in 2017.

I am hopeful that the U.N. Security Council resolution to allow the United
Nations to monitor the most recent evacuations could mean more access for
humanitarians to people desperately in need of our help elsewhere.

Men in suits

The men pointing the guns are responsible for terrible atrocities in this
senseless war, but the men in suits sponsoring those who target civilians are
equally liable. Too many foreign governments and organizations have brought fuel
to this fire.

Men with guns and power have specialized in setting up military, political,
bureaucratic and procedural roadblocks to prevent brave humanitarian workers
saving civilian lives.

This war will finally be over only when all the international sponsors
understand that instead of bringing fuel to the fire, they must push the parties
on the ground to the negotiation table. Peace negotiations are now scheduled for
February.  Last week's evacuations must be seen as a positive signal of what can
be achieved around the negotiation table.

And 2017 should bring new hope for the peace process in Syria.

Jan Egeland is the secretary general of the Norwegian Refugee Council. He also
chairs the United Nations panel on humanitarian access in Syria.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Baraa Al-Halabi, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             155 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Roof sentence will say more about us than him

BYLINE: Melinda Henneberger

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 506 words


We may never know how Dylann Roof got so twisted. Or even begin to understand
why the boy who had black friends turned into the man who waited until his
African-American victims had closed their eyes in prayer to slaughter them like
the animals he had come to believe they were.

But what we do with him now will say a lot more about who we are than it does
about him.

The jurors deliberated for less than two hours before convicting the blank-eyed
22-year-old of killing nine believers while they were doing what Christ asks of
all his followers -- welcoming the stranger among them into their Bible study
group in Charleston, S.C. When the jurors reconvene next Tuesday, they must make
the far more difficult call of whether Roof should be executed or spend his life
in prison.

Questions raised by the case touch on a tangle of intractable issues -- race and
rage, guns and mental illness, what constitutes terrorism and what we can do
about self-radicalization on the Internet. Yet the racism that Roof spewed seems
to have eclipsed all. Many who generally agree with me that capital punishment
is in all cases wrong are silent now. Or they're willing to make an exception
when it's a deluded white supremacist like Roof on trial instead of a deluded
Muslim terrorist like Dzhokhar Tsarnaev,  sentenced to death in the Boston
Marathon bombings.

The legal definition of insanity requires such a dramatic break from reality
that the accused no longer knows that what he's doing is wrong.

And jurors won't even have to try and sort out where free will ends and
compulsion begins. The judge in the case kept them from hearing the evidence of
mental illness, and they will never hear it now, because Roof intends to
represent himself during the punishment phase of the trial.

He's doing it to keep jurors from hearing information that might embarrass him,
his lawyers have said. Surely, worrying about embarrassment while on trial for
one's life is itself evidence of a serious imbalance. But one of the symptoms of
the paranoid schizophrenia that Roof's defense team has suggested he suffers
from is an unwillingness to believe he has a mental illness.

It's true  we get capital cases wrong all the time, but Roof's guilt is not in
question. We don't administer the ultimate penalty fairly, either, but we tend
to favor defendants like him who are white and have excellent lawyers.

At some point, I hope we'll acknowledge the difficult truth that while very few
people with a mental illness ever hurt anyone, evil actions aren't always freely
chosen. As a society, however, we do get to choose -- and we ought to admit that
even when the guilty man is a self-styled race warrior, an "eye for an eye"
justice makes killers of us all.

Vengeance on Roof seems a particularly poor way to honor his victims, whose
families so quickly and publicly forgave him.

Melinda Henneberger, a political writer and a visiting fellow at Catholic
University of America's Institute for Policy Research & Catholic Studies, is a
member of USA TODAY's Board of Contributors.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             156 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Where does my bag go when I check it?

BYLINE: John Cox, Special for USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 288 words


Q:  I always wonder about checked luggage and connecting flights. Can you please
go into detail about how my bag gets from one airplane to another?

-- Andrea,

Winston-Salem, N.C.

A: The journey of baggage is a fascinating one. From the time a bag is checked
in, a series of belts and carts transport it to the waiting airplane. If your
airplane is a larger one, the bag will be loaded into a container to make it
faster to load onto the airplane. Security screening of the bag occurs before
loading to ensure the safety of the flight. When the loading begins, it is sent
up via belt loader or in the container into the cargo hold where it is kept warm
(sort of) and pressurized during the flight. At your destination, the reverse
occurs. The belt loader or container loader takes the bag to a cart where it is
sent to the terminal to meet you.

For connecting flights, most bags go back through the central bag processing
facility at the airports where they are loaded onto carts for delivery to the
departing airplane. But airlines realize that some bags will only make their
connection if they are expedited, so they have a process that involves
transferring the bags on the ramp and then sending them to the departing
airplane by a dedicated tug and baggage cart. Larger airlines are using computer
tagging to keep track of the bag's progress. (There are apps that allow
passengers to follow the progress, too.) Over the years, this process has gotten
much more reliable.

In the near future, new ID tags will better identify each bag, further reducing
the number of bags that don't meet their owner at the destination. When you
consider the number of bags the airlines move each day, the number that don't
make it is remarkably small.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             157 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Revived Karma puts Revero in prime time

BYLINE: Mark Phelan, Detroit Free Press

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 550 words


As California electric-car start-up Karma begins showcasing its elegant Revero
sedan to dealers and customers, a morning drive showed the $130,000 car to be
fully sorted out and ready for prime time.

Karma spent the last 21/2 years resuscitating the bankrupt Fisker electric
carmaker, bringing its manufacturing to the U.S. from Finland and updating the
sleek car's underpinnings.

The body, a sleek long-wheelbase vision styled by veteran luxury car designer
Henrik Fisker when the company bore his name, is virtually unchanged from the
2,000 Fisker cars it sold before bankruptcy. The Revero seats four. Pretty much
everything you can't see -- the battery, electronics and infotainment hardware
-- is new, company chief revenue and marketing officer Jim Taylor said.

Revero, a plug-in hybrid sedan, has a projected 50-mile range on a battery
charge -- up about 50% from the pre-bankruptcy Fisker -- and another 200-odd
miles when a 2-liter gasoline engine turns on to generate more electricity. The
4-cylinder engine comes from General Motors, where Taylor had a long career that
culminated in running Cadillac. A123 makes the lithium-ion battery in Romulus.
Karma and A123 are both owned by Chinese auto supplier Wanxiang Group.

The Revero has three driving modes: Stealth, for all-battery driving; Sustain,
to engage the engine before the battery is drained; and Sport, which uses both
sources for maximum power. It accelerates to 60 mph in 5.4 seconds in Sport mode
and 6.9 in Stealth. The top speed is around 128 mph.

The Revero's design remains futuristic, but it's not a sports car. Weighing in
around 5,300 pounds despite an aluminum-intensive body, the Revero falls more in
the tradition of beautiful and elegant touring cars. The cabin comes in five
color schemes. The seats, dash and doors are wrapped in leather. Accent trim
choices are a modern carbon fiber or a pair of lovely salvaged woods: one from
Lake Michigan driftwood, the other  from California wildfires.

Luxury car buyers love that kind of unique touch. Karma's striking circular
badge also falls into that category. Each one is hand-painted on an aluminum
disc, then signed and numbered by a painter in Hawaii.

The controls are simple and modern, including a 10.1-inch touch screen for
navigation, phone, audio and climate. Even with its high price tag, it is
expected to be bought by people who have a stable of cars.

"Our owners will have several different cars they enjoy driving," Taylor said.
"They want controls that are easy to learn and use." Apple CarPlay works with
the system now. Karma hopes Android Auto will be ready soon.

The Revero certainly is easy to drive, accelerating smoothly and quietly.
Noisemakers generate a sound like something from a science fiction movie --
Taylor compares it to Tron -- to alert pedestrians to its approach.

The roof is a large solar panel that augments the battery. On a sunny day,
Taylor says it will add 3 to 5 miles to the  battery range.

Taylor is touring the country, bringing the seven test cars Karma has built
dealers for customer receptions and demos. There will be dealers in Los Angeles;
San Francisco; Scottsdale, Ariz.; Fort Worth; Atlanta; West Palm Beach, Fla.;
Philadelphia; Detroit; Chicago; Toronto; Montreal; and Vancouver. A few more
locations will  provide service.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             158 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

2 ways to make coin in '17 (and how not to);
Energy, health care sectors may be best bets for stock gains

BYLINE: Matt Krantz, @mattkrantz, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 611 words


It has been a great year for stocks -- so it's only natural to start looking for
another one. Pay attention, and the investment pros following companies the
closest are already telling you where to put your money.

A USA TODAY review of estimates from Wall Street analysts collected by S&P
Global Market Intelligence pinpoints the sectors where profit and stock gains
are expected to gush in 2017.

What are they? Expect companies in the energy, materials and information
technology industries to put up the largest increases in earnings per share,
according to data from S&P Global. But when it comes to stock gains, analysts
are calling for the biggest increases in health care, telecom and consumer
discretionary.

Such winning stocks could be where the power comes from to keep the impressive
late-year rally rolling. "With the economy showing signs of accelerating as we
head into 2017, this helps support valuations and increases the odds of this
bull market reaching its eighth birthday next year," says Ryan Detrick, market
strategist at LPL Financial.

The winners and losers in terms of both expected earnings growth and stock price
returns are becoming more clear:

Profit gain winner: energy. The surge in oil prices this year is expected to
feed into a big recovery in oil price profits. The energy sector is seen
producing 304% profit growth  next year, by far the largest expected increase of
any of the 11 sectors. The price of oil has surged 45% from its lows over the
past year to roughly $53 a barrel. The surge in oil prices is a big reason why
companies in the Standard & Poor's 500 are seen putting up 11.8% earnings growth
next year. Despite these huge earnings growth forecasts, analysts are  expecting
energy stocks in the S&P 500 to post an average gain of  6.2%. That's still
better than the 3.4% rise in the Standard & Poor's 500 index expected by CFRA
Research.

Profit gain loser: utilities. The utilities sector is the only one seen
reporting lower earnings per share next year. Analysts are forecasting the
sector's profits to drop by 1.2%. Utilities in many ways are the losers from
higher commodity prices, as they could be forced to pay more for raw
ingredients. The average utility stock in the S&P 500 is expected to rise 4.4%.

Stock price winner: health care. Health care stocks underperformed in 2016 --
the Health Care Select Sector SPDR fell 3.6% -- as they suffered from a
combination of problems. Intense government scrutiny over drug prices and an
unexpected Donald Trump victory in the presidential election introduced
uncertainty.

Even so, price targets for the next 18 months on health care stocks in the
Standard & Poor's 500 are 16% above these stocks' current stock prices on
average. That's the biggest expected upside of any sector's stocks. Investors
will need to be patient, though, says David Maris, analyst at Wells Fargo, as
many elements that could affect health care companies are yet to be determined,
such as the future of regulations.

Stock price loser: financials. The Financial Select Sector SPDR exchange-traded
fund is up 5.4% over the past month, which is the best performance of all 11
sectors. Hopes for easier regulations and higher long-term interest rates have
fueled a big rally in financials. Investors expect financials' profits to jump
to more than 11% in 2017.

But the stocks are a different story. The average financial stock in the S&P 500
is seen rising just 1.7% in 2017, the lowest implied upside of all the sectors.

Still, stocks don't tend to move in a straight line, so expect surprises. "Some
well-deserved consolidation wouldn't be the worst thing for equities to catch
their breath," Detrick says.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             159 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Silly travel rules we hope will come to an end in '17

BYLINE: Christopher Elliott

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 998 words


If the consumer-unfriendly ticketing restrictions quietly added by the three
major domestic airlines this year don't win the Worst New Travel Rules of 2016
Award, they're definitely strong contenders.

This spring, American, Delta and United changed the way they price multicity
tickets online, displaying dramatically higher fares than they used to. Airlines
claim they were just closing a little loophole, but advocates cried foul.

You can't leave home these days without encountering a stupid travel rule. Fixes
are a little harder. But as we head into 2017, there are  possibilities. Here
are the most absurd rules of the year -- and  chances of being repealed.

Wacky multicity ticket restrictions. Odds of dying in 2017: 0%.

Airlines say their move to raise ticket prices, made at virtually the same time,
is nothing more than a routine system change dictated by a competitive
marketplace. There's no law against raising  prices, and since the government
didn't take them to task for collusive behavior,  increases  stuck.

Turns out there may be a way to reopen that loophole and save money. A new
travel start-up called SQYGL (sqygl.com) promises a way to beat the system.

"We're effectively bypassing the airlines systems and still allow travelers to
book -- in seconds, not hours -- complex multicity itineraries," says Ron
Ben-Zeev, SQYGL's founder. The service, which is still being tested, launches in
early 2017.

Resort fees. Odds of dying in 2017: 20%

Airlines have their funny pricing rules, hotels have theirs. They're called
resort fees, and they're mandatory charges added after you get a price quote for
your room. Tricky, isn't it? Since the beginning of this year, resort fees have
surged 9% to an average of $19.74 per night at hotels charging them. The markets
with the biggest increases: Panama City, Fla. (24%), the Florida Keys (22%),
followed by San Diego (21%) and Miami (20%).

"Travelers are often blindsided by a mandatory fee they are forced to pay when
they show up at their hotel," says Randy Greencorn, publisher of website
Resortfeechecker.com. "Hotels are generally unwilling to waive the fee, leaving
little recourse for consumers."

The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has signaled that it's about to change its
disclosure requirements for resort fees, which would effectively kill these
dishonest charges. (Hotels would be required to display the total price at the
beginning of the booking process.) Of course, that assumes there will be an FTC
in 2017.

Non-cancellable rooms. Odds of dying in 2017: 0%.

Hotels have always had restrictions on room cancellations, but lately those
have become even more restrictive. For example, if you need to make a change
close to your arrival date, you can't do so without losing your room. In extreme
cases, your reservation is completely non-refundable.

These so-called prepaid rooms offer a modest discount in exchange for giving up
the ability to cancel and receive a refund. Result: more money for hotels, while
guests sometimes walk away with nothing.

"One way around this rule is to call the hotel and ask to have your reservation
moved further into the future, rather than canceling," says William Beckler,
co-founder of hotel site AllTheRooms.com. "Then, later on, call again and try to
cancel, which is less likely to be blocked since you're outside of that
no-cancellation window." The strategy doesn't always work, but it's worth a try.

Antique, outrageous protectionist laws. Odds of dying in 2017: 5%.

Cabotage laws were created more than a century ago to protect American shipping
interests. These archaic rules prevent foreign carriers from offering domestic
service and foreign-flagged vessels from making more than one domestic stop
before heading out to sea.

"Today, nearly every cruise ship is operated under a foreign flag," explains
Tanner Callais, founder of the cruise website Cruzely.com. "That means they
can't pick you up in, say, New York, and let you leave the ship permanently in
Miami."

With ostensibly pro-business Republicans in control of Congress and the
executive branch, it's possible cabotage could go bye-bye soon. These obsolete
laws don't help consumers, and removing them would significantly increase
competition.

Of course, the thing that really needs to go away in 2017 isn't an old law or a
new policy, but rather the travel industry's outdated and often
consumer-unfriendly loyalty programs.

David Cumpston just tried to redeem his frequent flyer miles for a "free"
British Airways ticket but had to pay an additional $600 in taxes and fees. Then
the airline asked for another $95 for a seat reservation. So much for "free."

"There's no common-sense reason for that," says Cumpston, who works for a
marketing agency in San Francisco.

Then again, there's no common-sense reason for any of these rules. They're just
there because no has said "enough." Maybe it's time for travelers to say it.

How to get stupid rules reversed

Complain. Companies listen when you speak up, and if they believe enough
customers might take their business elsewhere, they'll change their unfriendly
policies. Tip: Put your grievance in writing, and make sure you receive a
written response. If you don't, forward it to an executive to ensure it's viewed
promptly.

Let the government know you're unhappy. In travel, two agencies are responsible
for the bulk of regulations: The Department of Transportation and the Federal
Trade Commission. You can complain to both online and in writing. Tip: If you
want to have a real voice, be on the lookout for proposed rulemakings, where
public comments are invited. They'll be taken into account when regulators make
a final rule.

Vote with your wallet. The most persuasive way to effect change is to stop doing
business with a company. That's difficult with an airline since we're down to
just a few, but it's far easier with hotels. When there's a resort fee on your
bill, tell them you're taking your business elsewhere and not coming back. Then
watch what happens to the fee.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Getty Images/iStockphoto

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             160 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

VR, AR will be very real in 2017;
This tech is only going to get better

BYLINE: Bob O'Donnell, @bobodtech, Special for USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 736 words


Let's be honest. Just the names themselves conjure up a strange combination of
excitement, caution and a bit of disbelief.

Virtual reality? Augmented reality? Or the latest variation, mixed reality?

What are we supposed to make of our own, regular reality in light of all this
stuff?

Truth is, once you move past the science fiction hysteria or philosophical heft
of alternative realities, what we're really talking about are new types of
computing display technologies that allow us to see and interact with digital
data of all types -- from games and movies to educational material and
travel-related content -- in new and exciting ways.

Put simply, it's a cool, very enveloping way to look at and engage with some
neat stuff.

Instead of merely looking at a display that's a foot or two away from our eyes,
VR and AR products (as they're commonly referred to in shortened form) provide a
goggles-like headset that puts a display right in front of your eyes.

The result is a transformative way of viewing either a completely
computer-generated world -- in the case of VR -- or a world in which digitally
rendered graphics are overlaid on the "real world," in the case of AR.
(Mixed-reality devices essentially let you have both.)

Frankly, it's something you have to experience personally to truly understand
and appreciate.

2016 has seen the introduction of several compelling new entries into the AR and
VR world, including Microsoft's stand-alone HoloLens, the PC-powered HTC Vive
and Oculus Rift, the smartphone-powered Samsung Gear VR, and the game
console-driven Sony Playstation VR. All  offer an interesting and compelling
glimpse into the new "realities" and new opportunities  AR and VR can enable.

But they're also all clearly early versions of a technology that you can tell is
going to get significantly better over the next several years.

In 2017,  I expect to see some major improvements in the world of AR and VR
headsets, as well as the range and quality of content created for those devices.
From reductions in price, improvements in setup and use, enhancements in display
resolution and more, the next 12 months are bound to make what is already a
compelling technology even better.

We'll also see  more new players enter the market over the next year. At the
upcoming CES trade show in Las Vegas, VR- and AR-related products and content
are expected to be some of the most closely tracked developments.

Microsoft and Intel have already started to discuss their plans for simpler,
less expensive VR headsets attached to PCs running the Windows 10 Holographic
Platform that's due next spring. There even are rumblings that Apple could be
entering the market with some kind of iPhone add-on by the end of 2017.

Plus, while most developments around AR and VR are consumer-focused, we're
starting to see the beginning of business-focused applications that will get
significantly more attention next year. From architectural drawings to 3-D
modeling of parts to more realistic types of videoconferencing, we're bound to
see a number of commercial applications for VR in the new year.

Put it all together and it's clear a great deal of the tech industry's attention
is being focused on AR and VR technologies.

Of course, that much interest can lead to companies going out of their way to
try and one-up each other  -- even to the point of vastly overselling what's
currently possible.

Though the jury is  out, this seems to be the case with Magic Leap, a widely
hyped company with an AR technology that seems to be more smoke and
special-effects mirrors than a working product.

Whatever technology Magic Leap does have will likely be unveiled in 2017 as
well.

Despite these developments, there are certainly still debates among tech
industry watchers and participants as to how quickly AR and VR will become
widely accepted among mainstream buyers.

There are also still some questions about what AR and VR formats will be most
popular.

As time goes by, however, there seems to be less and less discussion about
whether or not that acceptance will happen.

It's just a question of when.

USA TODAY columnist Bob O'Donnell is president and chief analyst of TECHnalysis
Research, a market research and consulting firm that provides strategic
consulting and market research services to the technology industry and
professional financial community. His clients are major technology firms
including Microsoft, HP, Dell and Qualcomm.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Oculus

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             161 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

The 'Goop' squad presents 10 beauty commandments;
Some of the tips from editors are a bit pretentious

BYLINE: Erin Jensen, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 651 words


The editors of Goop have written your "must-have beauty bible" -- or so vowed
the pitch letter for the Goop Clean Beauty book, out Tuesday.

Though the text offers tips on bettering your appearance while keeping your
health a top priority, it doesn't offer explicit commandments like "Thou shalt
not covet the phone numbers of Bey and Jay," though Gwyneth Paltrow, who  wrote
the foreword, probably has both on her contact favorites.

Therefore, we've combed through the copy to share 10 mandates derived from the
book.

1 Thou shalt detox.

Contemplating a sober January? This restrictive detox might be worth a whirl.
The Goop editors write,  "In our books, it's kind of tradition to kick off the
New Year with a ten-day detox (or occasionally longer) of completely clean
eating." This includes nixing alcohol, caffeine, dairy, eggs, beef, pork,
shellfish, raw fish, gluten, soy, nightshades, strawberries, oranges,
grapefruits, grapes, bananas, corn, white rice, added sugar, peanuts, processed
oils and butters, and vegetable seed oils from your diet.

If this sounds like a cinch, we sure would like to know what it's like to have
willpower.

2 Thou shalt remember these ingredients after Googling.

You might be wondering what you can eat after seeing the list of no-nos above.
The book offers recipes that are detox-friendly but will require a search engine
to identify some ingredients -- unless you're familiar with kohlrabi and
buckwheat groats.

3 Honor thy gut.

The book places an emphasis on maintaining the health of your gut and says that
goal can be achieved by limiting your gluten intake and avoiding antibiotics,
chlorinated water, chemicals and food preservatives, plus the one we're going to
work hardest to ward off, "organisms like yeast fungus and parasites."

4 Thou shalt guzzle water to get rid of toxins.

While the book's prescription for six to eight  glasses of water a day  is
self-explanatory, the advice to sweat paves the way for an interjected Q&A with
Paltrow's business partner, Tracy Anderson, and the recommendation that "if you
happen to be in a position where you can install a personal sauna," you should
go for it.

5 Thou shalt have no other goods before the foam roller.

The books recommends the foam roller for (you guessed it) getting rid of toxins,
decreasing the appearance of cellulite and bringing the body into alignment,
among other benefits, and being integral in something called a "text-neck
massage."

6 Remember sugar and alcohol, and  keep them to a minimum.

Because of what sugar can do to the body -- weight gain, diabetes and more  --
the book offers tips from Goop writer Dr. Frank Lipman to break a sugar
addiction. The book  also goes after booze.

7 Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's sunscreen.

Goop Clean Beauty recommends sunblock over sunscreen because it protects from
rays that may cause sunburn, cancer and  premature aging.

8 Thou shalt get enough  sleep.

Lipman explains that a lack of sleep can bring about bad moods, brain fog,
inflammation and a depressed immune system, and it can even shorten your life.
You can Goop-ify your sleeping ritual with a copper pillowcase (likely to set
you back at least $60) and spritzing your sheets with fragrant oils and water to
mimic climbing into "the thick linen sheets at La Colombe d'Or in the south of
France (as) the air rustles with the supremely relaxing scent of lavender." You
do know what that smells like, don't you?

9 Thou shalt not commit to subpar cosmetics.

The book says the Goop squad avoids products that list Parabens, formaldehyde
releasers, phthalates, fragrance, EDTA, 4-dioxane contamination, ethanolamines
and chemical sunscreens as ingredients.

10 Thou shalt have no dermatologist before the best.

"If you're going to spend the (serious) money that anti-aging dermatology costs
(think lasers, Botox, etc.), don't try to save a little by going with anyone
less than the best," Goop Clean Beauty advises.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             162 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

'Pudge' has Hall case, with a catch

BYLINE: Jorge L. Ortiz, @jorgelortiz, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 8C

LENGTH: 686 words


USA TODAY Sports is examining the most intriguing cases on baseball's 2017 Hall
of Fame ballot ahead of the Jan. 18 election results.

Today: Ivan "Pudge" Rodriguez.

A 21-year career highlighted by an MVP Award, a World Series championship, a
record 13 Gold Gloves and 14 All-Star Game invitations should be more than
enough to grant Ivan Rodriguez an immediate entry into Cooperstown as one of the
best catchers ever.

If only it were that simple.

Rodriguez was one of the players former teammate Jose Canseco accused of steroid
use in his 2005 book Juiced, and circumstantial evidence like his substantial
weight loss between the 2004 and '05 seasons further incriminated Rodriguez,
though no conclusive evidence  materialized. Rodriguez also is not known to have
failed a drug test and was not named in the Mitchell Report.

The suspicions are about the only impediment for voters to grant Hall admission
to the greatest player to have spent the majority of his career with the Texas
Rangers.

The case for: Rodriguez not only played the most games at catcher (2,427) and
produced the most hits (2,749 of his total 2,844) of anybody at the position,
but he also excelled with his mitt and arm.

His collection of Gold Gloves -- 10 of them attained in a row, the first one at
age 20 -- tell only part of the story of his defensive prowess. Rodriguez was a
weapon behind the plate, with a quick release and powerful arm that nabbed
would-be basestealers at a 46% career rate. He led the league in that category
nine times.

Rodriguez became a major offensive contributor by his third season, the first of
15 in a row in which he reached double figures in home runs. He finished with a
career batting average of .296 that would rank sixth among Hall of Fame catchers
and a .798 on-base-plus-slugging percentage that would check in ninth, 25 points
ahead of Gary Carter. Of Rodriguez's 311 home runs, 304 came as a catcher, the
third-highest total ever. In his American League MVP season of 1999, Rodriguez
became the first catcher to combine at least 25 home runs and 25 steals in a
season.

After playing his first 12 seasons for the Rangers, Rodriguez became a driving
force behind the Florida Marlins' march to a championship in 2003, and three
years later he helped the Detroit Tigers reach their first World Series in more
than two decades.

The case against: Other than the questions about whether he used
performance-enhancing drugs, Rodriguez can be nitpicked for a reputed penchant
for calling fastballs to aid in his efforts to catch basestealers, which irked
the occasional pitcher. Offensively, he was never a particularly patient hitter,
contributing to a so-so .334 on-base percentage despite 10 seasons with a
batting average of .300 or better.

Look-alikes: Baseball-Reference's Similarity Score puts Hall of Famer Carlton
Fisk atop the list, with Carter and Yogi Berra farther down. Bill James' Hall of
Fame monitor leaves no doubt about Rodriguez's worthiness for induction, with
his 226 points soaring past the 130 standard for a virtual cinch. Rodriguez is a
lock as well by Jay Jaffe's JAWS system, with a score of 54 that ranks third all
time among catchers.

X factors: Despite standing 5-9, Rodriguez embraced the rigors of catching,
starting at least 100 games -- and twice 140 -- in 16 of his 21 seasons. He also
played some winter ball and represented Puerto Rico in the 2006 and '09 World
Baseball Classics. Voters tend to appreciate that love of the game.

The signature moment of Rodriguez's career came in Game 4 of the Marlins' 2003
division series against the San Francisco Giants, when he firmly clutched the
ball while getting plowed by J.T. Snow in a fierce home-plate collision that
resulted in the series-clinching out of an upset victory.

Consensus: Mike Piazza's election last year is widely seen as opening the Hall
doors to players dogged by suspicion of PED use but with little corroborating
evidence. Rodriguez falls in that category, and his candidacy might be even
stronger than Piazza's. But much like Piazza had to wait four years, Rodriguez
might be put on hold before inevitably getting elected.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo 2002 photo by LM OTERO, AP by LM OTERO, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             163 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

'Books for Living' is a love letter to reading;
Schwalbe is no snob and shows he's a fan of Homer, E.B. White and Paula Hawkins

BYLINE: Kevin Nance, Special for USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 454 words


To explain what Will Schwalbe's Books for Living is, a good place to begin might
be to say what it isn't.

It isn't David Denby's deeper, more ambitious, far more sophisticated Great
Books -- though in concept it shares much with Denby's recent Lit Up, a
re-examination of 24 classics on a high school syllabus -- or similar offerings
by his colleagues in the book-reclamation biz, Michael Dirda (Browsings) and
Robert Gottlieb (Avid Reader).

Which is not to imply that Schwalbe, best known for his best-selling 2012 memoir
The End of Your Life Book Club (in which he shared his love of reading with his
dying mother), doesn't have interesting things to say about literature in Books
for Living (Knopf, 288 pp., *** out of four). It's just that he does so in a
quiet, personal way.

Instead of trying to dust off some forgotten tome and convince us of its value,
he focuses on its pressing relevance at some critical juncture in his life. He
isn't arguing -- and certainly not shilling -- on behalf of a book or author;
he's passing on his own experience and leaving us to identify with it or not.

Of course we do identify with it, typically, in large part because Schwalbe
presents himself so convincingly as an Everyman. He doesn't pretend, or even
aspire, to have the  expertise of Denby and Dirda, or to Gottlieb's  insider
status. He conveys this humility with his easygoing, egalitarian tone and his
high-low eclecticism, which ranges from Homer's The Odyssey and Melville's
Bartleby the Scrivener to E.B. White's Stuart Little and Paula Hawkins' The Girl
on the Train.

I could have done without some of the  choices, such as Anne Morrow Lindbergh's
Gift from the Sea, to my mind more memorable for its author's last name than for
its meandering content.

On the other hand, I confess to having been touched by Schwalbe's inclusion of
David Copperfield, not the best Dickens novel but a personal favorite of mine
and, as it happens, of Dickens himself. And I found myself envious that a
teacher steered Schwalbe toward James Baldwin's Giovanni's Room at precisely the
moment he needed it as a young gay man; I read it sadly out of sync with the
conditions of my own life.

In the end, Schwalbe fulfills the promise of his earlier memoir with this new
book, in which the communion of readers trumps even what they're reading.

"I used to say that the greatest gift you could ever give anyone is a book," he
writes. "But I don't say that anymore because I no longer think it's true. I now
say that a book is the second-greatest gift. I've come to believe that the
greatest gift you can give anyone is to take the time to talk with someone about
a book you've shared."

Books for Living is just that sort of gift, and one that keeps giving.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BOOK REVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             164 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Sales of marijuana run high for the holidays;
As a stocking stuffer, product shows it's become mainstream

BYLINE: Trevor Hughes, @trevorhughes, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 407 words


It appears Santa was stuffing stockings with a little extra green this holiday
season: marijuana.

Pot shops report the average purchase was up 21% in the week before Christmas,
according to the marijuana-software firm Baker, which runs store
customer-service systems. The most popular items: marijuana-infused edibles such
as brownies and cookies.

Also near the top of the list were vaporizers, pipes and other smoking
accessories, Baker reported. The company said the data hold true across the
states where it serves medical and recreational stores: Arizona, California,
Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon and Washington.

A rush in sales around Christmas is no surprise. The biggest sale days of the
year traditionally come around Thanksgiving's "Weed Wednesday" and "Green
Friday," said Baker's CEO, Joel Milton, although April 20, known as 4/20,
remains the biggest marijuana sales day nationally.  Other big sales days tend
to come on Fridays before federal holidays, according to an analysis of
Washington state sales dates by New Frontier Data.

"Holiday gift-giving is a perfect example of this once-taboo product making its
way into the mainstream retail environment," Milton said. "We have a feeling
people will like cannabis gifts a lot more than a traditional ... box of
chocolates."

Colorado's biggest marijuana retailer, Native Roots, has seen significant
increases in edibles sales at its ski-town stores.

The company has 17 locations, and those stores near resorts tend to draw
significant numbers of tourists, CEO Josh Ginsberg said.

Edibles are a popular option to smoking marijuana because they're discreet and
can be more comfortable for empty-nest Baby Boomers trying cannabis for the
first time in years.

Native Roots stores sold holiday bundles, starting with the $40-$45 "Stocking
Puffer," which included a small amount of  marijuana and some joints, expanding
to the "Mary Cannabis," which included  marijuana-infused candy and other items,
and topping out with the "O'Chronic Tree" at nearly $300.

"We also see a huge increase  in our apparel sales," Ginsberg said. "People want
something that says dispensary, that says Colorado. They want something that
says they went into a dispensary on their ski vacation."

Next Christmas could be even bigger: Last month, voters legalized recreational
cannabis in California, Maine, Massachusetts and Nevada, and stores in at least
some of those states could be up and running  next year.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo photos by Trevor Hughes, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             165 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Clemson puts faith in QB;
Team unfazed as Watson's statistics take slight dip

BYLINE: Paul Myerberg, @paulmyerberg, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 995 words


If you want to make a Clemson player or coach laugh -- or grit their teeth in
annoyance -- simply ask: What's wrong with Deshaun Watson?

The short answer, this same group will tell you, is nothing.

"He set the standard of quarterback play here at Clemson," senior center Jay
Guillermo said. "He's done things that not a lot of people have accomplished. He
does uncommon things. It's just mind-blowing."

It's a case where perception might not match up with reality. The perception,
based on a cursory examination of Watson's junior season, is that the two-time
Heisman Trophy contender has struggled.

He's averaging roughly a half-yard fewer per pass attempt, a seemingly
negligible amount that does add up over the course of Watson's nearly 500 throws
during the regular season. That slight decline contributes to the
much-publicized criticism of Clemson's downfield passing game, which has battled
inconsistency one season after being a primary factor behind the Tigers'
offensive success.

He has thrown two more interceptions than in 2015, a season that saw Watson --
and Clemson as a whole -- transform potential into All-America production.
Watson's 15 interceptions are the sixth most of any quarterback in the Football
Bowl Subdivision; in comparison, the other three teams in this year's College
Football Playoff -- Alabama, Ohio State and Washington -- have combined to throw
21 interceptions.

"He's thrown picks, but we still keep winning," cornerback Cordrea Tankersley
said. "That's all that matters. For whatever reason, he throws more touchdowns
than picks."

In reality, however, Watson finished the regular season ranked ninth nationally
in completion percentage, seventh in passing yards and tied for sixth in
touchdown passes, while the Tigers entered the postseason in a familiar
position: in the Playoff, just like in 2015, thanks in large part to their
quarterback.

"The good stuff, it's not going to create the headlines," Clemson coach Dabo
Swinney said. "If you talk about the five touchdowns that Deshaun threw, 'Well,
that's Deshaun Watson. That's what he's supposed to be. But boy, he threw two
picks!' That's the big news."

So what's wrong with Watson? Two more interceptions, that's what, and that's
nothing. As his teammates and coaches strongly attest, he's as good now as he
ever has been -- and so is Clemson.

"The people that know Deshaun and that have been around him every day for the
last three years, we laugh at that," co-offensive coordinator Jeff Scott said.
"He's the best I've ever been around. He's unbelievable."

Maybe a two-time Heisman Trophy finalist doesn't need teammates and coaches
leaping to his defense, even if the complaints about Watson's perceived decline
largely ring hollow. Yes, he experienced a slight increase in turnovers along
with a slight decrease in per-attempt production, but everything is relative.

"I'm playing the best football of my career," said Watson, who is widely
expected to give up his final season of eligibility and enter the NFL draft,
where he would be among the first quarterbacks selected. "That's how it should
be, as you get older and more proven. I should be playing better football."

And there's something symbolic about the negativity: Watson has been a stand-in
for the critiques of Clemson as a whole. One year after their national
breakthrough, the Tigers -- and their quarterback -- are finding it difficult to
meet a nearly unreachable standard for success.

"I think there's unrealistic expectations all over sports," co-offensive
coordinator Tony Elliott said. "I also think there's a heavy tendency toward,
'What's new? What's next?' And if there's a new hot thing coming out, then
everybody's going to jump on it. Everybody's always looking for that story that
leads. 'Things aren't as good as they seem,' you know?"

At the same time, there's no disputing the idea that Clemson cannot afford to
make mistakes in its Fiesta Bowl matchup against Ohio State, a team that might
lack offensive explosiveness but has perhaps the nation's most aggressive
defensive backfield -- the Buckeyes rank sixth in the Football Bowl Subdivision
in interceptions and first in interceptions returned for touchdowns.

Admittedly, Watson's most turnover-happy performances came against perhaps the
three toughest teams on the Tigers schedule.

He tossed three interceptions against Louisville and two against Florida State,
even if Clemson won both games. Watson had another three turnovers against
Pittsburgh, in the Tigers' only defeat.

But not all interceptions fall on the shoulders of the quarterback. Watson
should take responsibility for less than one-third of his interceptions, Elliott
estimated, citing instances of poor reads, overthrows or underthrows. But in
other cases, the turnovers can be attributed to mitigating factors: mistaken
routes run by teammates or balls tipped at the line of scrimmage, for example.

"I think Deshaun is so good he made people numb to it," Swinney said. "Do we
really understand what happened in those 15 interceptions? No, and nobody cares.
Nobody wants to break that down. I know exactly what happened."

What Swinney cares about is the response: Watson tossed a first-half
interception in the Tigers' 56-7 win against rival South Carolina on Nov.26 and
then proceeded to commence a streak of 19 completions in a row, a school record.
He's among the hottest quarterbacks in the country entering the postseason, with
10 touchdowns and two turnovers over Clemson's last three games.

In other words, Watson is as good as ever, and just at the right time. So before
you ask: There's nothing wrong with Clemson's junior quarterback.

"It definitely pisses you off, just because us being here at practice and us
seeing him working out and seeing how hard he works," tight end Jordan Leggett
said. "But after these next couple games we have, if he plays the way I think he
will, honestly, they're not going to be saying nothing. The only way you can
shut them up is by performing."

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Logan Bowles, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             166 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Russians still struggle with new identity;
Some older citizens have nostalgic memories while younger people don't
comprehend or show zero interest

BYLINE: Kim Hjelmgaard

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 670 words


Welcome to Barviha and your host, Roman Galimov. He posts racy pictures of
himself and his model wife on Instagram. His hipster bar offers a moody, dimly
lit atmosphere, sophisticated brioche-bun burgers and emotive electronic beats
that pulse from an expensive-looking sound system.

Galimov's dream is to open his next Barviha in Miami, but for now, you'll have
to visit him in this central Russian city.  Ask Galimov, 28, about the Soviet
Union, which collapsed a quarter-century ago this Christmas, and he'll look
surprised.

"Does anyone even care about that place any longer?" Galimov said. "The life I
lead now would be unimaginable then. Soviet people had one task: to conform. For
me and other young people, we just live however we choose."

Many older Russians long for the old days. Fifty-eight percent of people
surveyed said they would approve if the Soviet Union were restored, according to
recent data by the Levada-Center, an independent Russian research organization.
The same survey found that nostalgia for the Soviet Union is higher than at any
point since 2000, when Russian President Vladimir Putin came to power.

Younger people display a  range of emotions from  disinterest to curiosity.
Consider an adventurous teen, a kickboxing champion and a tech entrepreneur:

Kobzarro, 19, who never reveals her real name but is known as Russia's Batgirl,
used to be a quiet office worker. Now she puts on a mask and cape and balances
on trains as they speed through Moscow and other parts of Russia. "It's like a
mystical experience for me," Kobzarro said of her dangerous hobby. She pursued
it initially to escape overbearing parents and an oppressive home life. It has
evolved into a pastime that symbolizes, she said,  rejection of a stifling
Soviet state --  one she never experienced. "I admire people who create their
own rules."

In addition to train surfing, which has resulted in run-ins with  police and
fines,  Kobzarro routinely, also illegally, explores abandoned Soviet-era
hospitals, factories and other buildings. She does this, she said, to connect
with a physical Soviet past.

"It helps me understand it better. That doesn't mean I would prefer that time to
now," she said.

Isabelle Magkoeva, 25, spent her early teens campaigning for a return to a
kinder, gentler form of socialism capable of addressing Russia's income
inequality and other societal ills. "I am not a fan of the Soviet Union. It was
a horrible time, but the situation is not good in our country," she said.

"I am against all the privatization in Russia," Magkoeva said, referring to the
period  after the Soviet dissolution when the government auctioned off 1.5
trillion acres of arable land, as well as banks, factories, energy, minerals --
about 200,000 inefficient state-owned enterprises in all -- to private
individuals. That led to the creation of instant billionaires, known as Russia's
oligarchs.

Magkoeva quit Russia's political scene four years ago. Police had warned her she
was in danger of being arrested for taking part in demonstrations  against Putin
after he was elected to the presidency for a third time. Instead, she took up
Thai boxing, eventually winning a major Russian title.

Ilya Chekh, 27, a Belarussian who runs Motorica, a technology start-up based in
Moscow that makes prosthetic devices, laughed dismissively when asked whether
Russia's Soviet past has any persisting influence on what he does.

"The older generations in our medical institutes don't know what 3-D printing
is," he said.

Andrey Sebrant, 62, a former Soviet physicist who is director of product
marketing at Yandex, a large Russian consumer technology firm, sees the
generational gap differently.

"For people in their 70s, for example, the time of (former Soviet leader Leonid)
Brezhnev is the time of their youth," he said, "the best years of their life,
where the memories are always good. Not everyone was suffering. ... It is normal
they would dream about this time -- that doesn't mean they dream about communist
rule. That's different."

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Kim Hjelmgaard, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             167 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Russians find jet wreckage in Black Sea;
Official says pilot error or technical fault to blame for crash that killed 92
on board

BYLINE: Doyle Rice, @usatodayweather, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 651 words


Wreckage was found from a Russian jet that crashed Sunday in the Black Sea,
killing 92 people, Russian officials said Monday.

Pilot error or a technical fault -- not terrorism -- were likely to have caused
the crash, Russian Transport Minister Maxim Sokolov said in a statement.

Divers located several fragments of the jet Monday afternoon about 1 mile from
the shore and 82 feet under the sea, the Emergency Situations Ministry said in a
statement. Some of the debris was recovered, and divers went back into the water
to search for more.

Finding the jet's flight recorders may be difficult because the devices lack
underwater locator beacons that are common in more modern planes.

Everyone aboard the Russian military's Tu-154 jet are likely to have died when
the jet crashed two minutes after takeoff Sunday from the southern city of Sochi
en route to Syria, the Associated Press said.

The nation held a day of mourning Monday for the victims. Flags flew at
half-staff, and TV stations removed entertainment shows from their schedules,
Reuters reported.

"This is a terrible tragedy and irreplaceable grief for the families of the
victims," Sokolov said. "I express my deep condolences to the families and
friends of the victims."

About 45 ships and more than 3,500 rescue workers were involved in the search
for remains and jet debris, the Russian Defense Ministry said. Searchers used
helicopters, drones and submersibles to look for bodies and debris.

Rescue teams recovered 11 bodies, as well as fragments of bodies. Those were
flown to Moscow, where the remains will be identified.

The passengers included dozens of singers in Russia's world-famous military
choir, nine Russian journalists and a Russian doctor known for her charity work
in war zones, the AP reported.

Officials downplayed speculation that a bomb or terrorism might have caused the
crash.

Several aviation experts noted factors that could suggest a terror attack, such
as the crew's failure to report any malfunction and the fact that jet debris was
scattered over a wide area, the AP said.

"Possible malfunctions ... certainly wouldn't have prevented the crew from
reporting them," Vitaly Andreyev, a former senior Russian air-traffic
controller, told RIA Novosti.

The jet originated at Moscow's military airport of Chkalovsky and stopped in
Sochi for refueling before heading to Syria, where the choir was to perform a
New Year's concert at a Russian military base. Despite the Syrian connection,
Sokolov said the government sees no need to heighten security measures at
Russian airports.

Some choir members did not go to Syria for personal reasons, the AP reported.

Soloist Vadim Ananyev stayed behind to help his wife with their children after
the birth of their baby.

"I have lost my friends and colleagues, all killed, all five soloists. I feel in
complete disarray," Ananyev told the AP. "It is such a shame. I have known these
people for 30 years. I know their wives and children. I feel terrible for the
children and for all that I have lost."

Ananyev said he had received condolences from all over Russia and from abroad.

"We were loved all over the world, never mind the political situation," he said.

Mourners stopped by the Sochi Adler airport on Monday to light candles and lay
flowers at an improvised shrine that featured photos of the jet and some
victims.

The Tu-154 is a Soviet-built, three-engine airliner designed in the late 1960s,
the AP reported. More than 1,000 have been built, and they have been used
extensively in Russia and worldwide. The jet that crashed Sunday was built in
1983 and underwent factory checkups and maintenance in 2014, the Defense
Ministry said.

Tu-154 aircraft have been involved in a number of accidents, including a crash
in April 2010 in which Polish President Lech Kaczynski and his delegation were
killed, according to Agence France-Press.

The jets are no longer used by commercial airlines in Russia.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo YEVGENY REUTOV, European PressPhoto Agency

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             168 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Blizzard, freezing rain trip up post-holiday travelers;
For many, warmth is on the way Tuesday

BYLINE: Doyle Rice, @usatodayweather, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 299 words


Wintry weather caused travel trouble across the nation's northern tier for folks
returning home from holiday celebrations Monday.

A blizzard buried the northern Plains under as much as 16 inches of snow, which
was blown around by winds of up to 50 mph. Nearly every highway across North
Dakota and the western half of South Dakota was shut down Monday, the National
Weather Service said.

The North Dakota Highway Patrol warned that motorists who venture out in areas
under no-travel advisories go at their own risk and "may become stranded, and
emergency responders may not be able to reach them safely," the Associated Press
said. The storm caused widespread power outages in the Dakotas, Nebraska and
western Iowa, AP reported.

The Minot (N.D.) International Airport closed Monday because of low visibility
and will remain closed until early Wednesday, the Minot Daily News said.

Though the worst of the snow fell to the west of Minneapolis, dozens of flights
were delayed Monday at the city's airport, FlightAware said.

Travel hazards will persist across the region into Tuesday, despite the storm
winding down, AccuWeather said.

Elsewhere, portions of New England and New York state saw freezing rain Monday,
which was forecast to persist into early Tuesday, the weather service said.

In the western USA, a new storm Tuesday will spread snow eastward into interior
Washington and Oregon and the northern Rockies, the weather service said.

For the central, eastern and southern USA, winter will take a vacation Tuesday
as above-average temperatures take hold. The East Coast will be particularly
warm.

Afternoon high temperatures were forecast to be 10 to 25 degrees above average,
the weather service reported.

A few locations in Florida, including Miami, are seeing their warmest December
on record.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Tom Stromme, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             169 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Saban, Alabama bring valuable lesson to semifinal;
Team doesn't treat game like bowl

BYLINE: Dan Wolken, @danwolken, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 562 words


Nick Saban has been upfront about his belief that Alabama didn't handle its
preparation well for the inaugural College Football Playoff two years ago, which
resulted in a 42-35 loss to Ohio State.

Alabama has since vowed to take a more businesslike approach to the semifinals
despite the fact they are structured like bowl weeks with various off-field
activities and recreational opportunities in which players and coaches are
expected to participate.

Upon arrival in Atlanta for Saturday's semifinal matchup against No.4
Washington, Saban said Monday that it was ultimately up to the players to
mentally prepare more like last season -- when Alabama beat Michigan State 38-0
in the Cotton Bowl -- as opposed to the lead-up vs. Ohio State in 2014.

"In a playoff, you're all-in. You have to go 1-0, or you're out," Saban said.
"Is this a bowl game or a playoff game? Every player has to decide (that
mind-set) for themselves; every coach has to decide for themselves. We are
trying to create a balance for everyone in our organization, because it is a
Playoff game."

For decades, bowls have rewards for players, each one showering players with
frivolity and festivity over the course of several days leading up to the event.
But given the high-stakes, pressure-packed nature of the Playoff, multiple
coaches initially expressed concern about overloading players' schedules and
chipping away at their focus. That's one reason the title game is structured
more like a regular road trip, without the pomp and circumstance of a bowl week
and no major events outside of a media day.

Though the Peach Bowl will provide some typical bowl week experiences -- teams
were scheduled to do go-kart racing, visit a children's hospital, tour the
College Football Hall of Fame and visit the Martin Luther King Jr. National
Historic Site at various points before the game -- Saban says the CFP has taken
his input into consideration about the best way to structure the week.

"I think everyone is in agreement we're trying to create a balance for the
players in terms of them having the proper time to focus on what they need to do
to go play well because of the opportunity they've created for themselves and
still have somewhat of an experience from a bowl game standpoint that would not
be too intrusive in terms of what they want to try to accomplish as a team,"
Saban said. "Everybody has been open about how we can all manage this the best
for the players, and I think everybody's doing the best they can to try to make
that happen for the players."

Washington, on the other hand, plans to soak in the atmosphere. A year ago, the
Huskies were preparing for the Heart of Dallas Bowl as a 6-6 team and have been
empowered to enjoy everything coming their way this week.

"It's kind of like how we talk to them anyways; even when we travel as a normal
away game, we always want them to enjoy and appreciate the moment," coach Chris
Petersen said. "We want them to appreciate the different venues, the hostile
environments we go into. That's part of this whole thing, the pageantry of
college football. There's nothing like it. So when you come here for a week and
you get these cool events, we want them to appreciate that as well. There's
plenty of time to do that and be focused on why we're here. It's how we've done
business all along, and I think our guys are ready to do this the right way."

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Marvin Gentry, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             170 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Geroge Michael put the boom-boom in music

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 249 words


LETTERS

I was a fan of George Michael and WHAM! in the 1980s. I owned two WHAM! albums,
Make It Big and Music from the Edge of Heaven, and Michael's first solo album,
Faith.

When I saw Michael in music videos, he looked very handsome. He had a great and
talented voice. He was also one of my favorite singers.

We'll remember Michael as a great singer and lead member of WHAM! always and
forever.

George Michael, rest in peace.

Paul Bacon

Hallandale Beach, Fla.

FACEBOOK

Regardless what you think of his lifestyle, George Michael made some good music.

Julie Bozard Smith

I can recall seeing him burst on the MTV scene back when I was in college
thinking "Man, this guy has it all! A great voice, money and looks that would
get him all the girls he could ever want!" Later I learned he was gay, which
mattered none to me, but apparently he seemed to have difficulty dealing with
his talent, fame and all the pressures I'm sure  came along with being a
successful gay man.

Brent Norman

An exceptional singing voice with talent to match. His songs are great and his
live version of "Sexual Healing" is incredible. Michael definitely had soul.

Al Small

I always really liked "Last Christmas." It was one of the few Christmas songs
that had a darker tone to it. Maybe there was a bit of premonition by the singer
when he made it.

George Riley

Michael had incredible talent and style. Magnificent vocals. He was a true
artist. My favorite one of his songs was "Praying for Time," powerful and real
lyrics.

Marley Denver

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             171 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Box Office Report

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 202 words


'Rogue One' continues to prove Star Wars domination as it flew to the top spot
at the  box office once again. The standalone adventure blasted the competition,
capturing  $96 million over the four-day holiday weekend,  according to studio
estimates Monday. 'Sing' ($56 million), 'Passengers' ($23.1 million), 'Why Him?'
($16.7 million) and 'Assassin's Creed' ($15 million) rounded out the top five.

HOW WAS YOUR DAY?

GOOD DAY Vanessa and Nick Lachey

Talk about a Christmas miracle. Vanessa and Nick Lachey welcomed their third
child over the holiday weekend, taking to Instagram on Monday to share the news.
"Phoenix Robert Lachey decided to show up early and was born on Christmas Eve,"
Vanessa captioned a photo of her newborn son holding her hand. "Mommy, Daddy,
Camden & Brooklyn LOVE You very much! #LacheyPartyOf5."

BAD DAY Sony

Sony was hacked. Again. On Monday, the Twitter account for Sony Music issued two
false tweets that Britney Spears had died. A representative for the 35-year-old
pop singer promptly debunked the claim to CNN, with Sony later confirming the
hack. "This has been rectified," the company said in a formal statement. "Sony
Music apologizes to Britney Spears and her fans for any confusion."

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Giles Keyte

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LIFELINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             172 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

FIRST WORD

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 190 words


IF HE'S JUST A CHEERLEADER, HE'S DOING A DAMN GOOD JOB OF IT."

Former NFL coach Brian Billick on the NFL Network's "Good Morning Football" show
about Steelers coach Mike Tomlin, who was called a "cheeleader" by Terry
Bradshaw.

Magic numbers

85

Consecutive games played without back-to-back regulation losses by the Penguins
under coach Mike Sullivan.

30,000

Masks depicting the face of Leicester City's Jamie Vardy given to fans at the
team's English Premier League match against Everton, a move widely regarded as
being a response to the striker's three-game suspension.

TWEET OF THE DAY

@dak

Congrats to My Hailstate Family on Finishing The Year with a Win! I Will Never
Forget My Last One #Hailstate #BulldogforLife #Family

Cowboys quarterback Dak Prescott, after his college team, Mississippi State,
defeated Miami (Ohio) 17-16 in the St. Petersburg Bowl, sealing the win on a
last-second blocked field goal attempt.

LAST WORD

"HAVING A 3-YEAR-OLD GRANDDAUGHTER MADE CHRISTMAS SPECIAL. THE SPIRIT OF SANTA
CLAUS IS ALIVE AND WELL."

Alabama football coach Nick Saban, during a College Football Playoff semifinal
news conference.

Edited by Roxanna Scott

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Tomlin by Charles LeClaire, USA TODAY Sports

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SPORTSLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             173 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                FA CHASE EDITION

USA TODAY SPORTS SUPER 25

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 7C

LENGTH: 386 words


Final high school football rankings

1. Bishop Gorman, Las Vegas (15-0)

Previous (PR): 1. Result: 4A state champion.

2. IMG Academy,  Bradenton, Fla. (11-0)

PR: 2. Result: Independent defeated two Super 25 teams and three state
champions.

3. DeSoto, Texas (16-0)

PR: 3. Result: 6A-II state champion.

4. DeMatha, Hyattsville, Md. (12-0)

PR: 4. Result: Washington Catholic Athletic Conference champion.

5. St. Thomas Aquinas,  Fort Lauderdale (13-2)

PR: 5. Result: 7A state champion defeated then-No. 12 Bingham (South Jordan,
Utah) 33-25 Friday in the GEICO State Champions Bowl Series.

6. St. John Bosco,  Bellflower, Calif. (13-2)

PR: 6. Result: State Open Division Bowl champion.

7. Grayson, Loganville, Ga. (14-1)

PR: 7. Result: AAAAAAA state champion.

8. St. Joseph's Prep, Philadelphia (14-0)

PR: 8. Result: 6A state champion.

9. Mater Dei, Santa Ana, Calif. (13-1)

PR: 9. Result: Southern Section Division I finalist.

10. Lake Travis, Austin (15-1)

PR: 10. Result: 6A-I state champion.

11. Bingham,  South Jordan, Utah (14-1)

PR: 12. Result: 5A state champion lost 33-25 Friday to No. 5 St. Thomas Aquinas
(Fort Lauderdale) in the GEICO State Champions Bowl Series in Frisco, Texas.

12. Centennial, Corona, Calif. (11-2)

PR: 11. Result: Southern Section Division I semifinalist.

13. Roswell, Ga. (14-1)

PR: 13. Result: AAAAAAA state runner-up.

14. American Heritage, Plantation, Fla. (14-0)

PR: 14. Result: 5A state champion.

15. Cass Tech, Detroit (14-0)

PR: 15. Result: Division I state champion.

16. Trinity, Louisville (15-0)

PR: 16. Result: 6A state champion.

17. East St. Louis, Ill. (14-0)

PR: 17. Result: 7A state champion.

18. Saguaro, Scottsdale, Ariz. (14-0)

PR: 18. Result: 4A state champion.

19. Hoover, Ala. (12-2)

PR: 19. Result: 6A State champion.

20. Edna Karr, New Orleans (14-0)

PR: 20. Result: 4A state champion.

21. Dutch Fork, Irmo, S.C. (15-0)

PR: 21. Result: 5A state champion.

22. Clinton, Miss. (14-1)

PR: 22. Result: 6A state champion.

23. Cartersville, Ga. (14-0)

PR: 23. Result: 4A state champion.

24. Kimberly, Wis. (14-0)

PR: 24. Result: Division I state champion.

25. Wise, Upper Marlboro, Md. (14-0)

PR: 25. Result: 4A state champion.

Dropped out: None.

The Super 25 rankings are compiled by USA TODAY Sports' Jim Halley, based on
results, tradition, quality of players and strength of schedule. Regional
rankings: usatodayhss.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             174 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Trump doesn't need to divest

BYLINE: David B. Rivkin Jr., and Lee A. Casey

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 356 words


President-elect Donald Trump is perfectly entitled to retain his business
holdings, and to permit his adult children to run those businesses, as a means
of avoiding conflicts-of-interest during his presidency. The Constitution does
not require him to divest his holdings, nor do other federal laws.

Although many previous presidents have chosen to put their personal holdings in
a "blind trust," this was not required and in Trump's case such a requirement
would be particularly iniquitous. Trump could not simply liquidate his holdings
in the public securities markets at market prices. He would have to find buyers
for a vast array of real estate holdings and ongoing businesses. Each of those
potential buyers would be well aware of his need to sell, and to sell quickly,
and the value of his holdings would be discounted.

In addition, of course, the Trump Organization is a family business, as it has
been since the time of Trump's father. Most of his children are employed in that
business. Neither law nor logic require Trump to pull the rug out from under
them. A newly elected president is simply not required to make such personal
sacrifices as the price of assuming an office to which he was constitutionally
elected.

Permitting his children to take over day-to-day management of the Trump
businesses is a reasonable means of addressing potential and actual conflicts of
interest that may arise. It may be necessary or advisable for them to avoid a
particular deal, or even to sell a particular property, if it appears that a
genuine conflict is involved, but that can be assessed on a case-by-case basis.

This is, in fact, how previous administrations have dealt with the one, actual
limit the Constitution imposes on a president's personal financial activities:
the prohibition on taking any "emoluments" from foreign countries. There is no
reason the Trump administration cannot follow this rule.

David B. Rivkin Jr. and Lee A. Casey practice appellate and constitutional law
in Washington. They served in the Justice Department and the White House
counsel's office during the Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations.


LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             175 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Consumers may still be feeling buoyant as new year dawns

BYLINE: Paul Davidson, @Pdavidsonusat, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 398 words


This week brings  some illuminating data as the country heads into 2017 on the
mood of consumers and the state of the housing market. Both recently hit
post-recession milestones.

A closely watched index of consumer confidence surged to 107.1 in November, the
highest level since July 2007, five months before the Great Recession began.
Americans are enjoying solid job and income growth, still-cheap gas despite a
recent uptick, and record stock and home prices.

In the November survey, most consumers responded before the election. At the
least, Donald Trump's win did nothing to ding optimism despite pre-election
fears. And the stunning post-election stock market rally stoked by soaring
business confidence  has further lifted spirits. The University of Michigan's
consumer sentiment index reached a 12-year high in December.

Economists estimate the Conference Board on Tuesday will report that its
confidence index, which can foretell future spending, also remained in rarefied
territory this month.

One reason consumers are content is record home prices. In September, the S&P
CoreLogic Case-Shiller national home price index exceeded its pre-recession
high, marking a symbolic recovery from the housing crash. But the aggregate
numbers don't tell the whole story. After accounting for inflation, home prices
are still about 20% below their peak, Ralph McLaughlin of real estate research
firm Trulia notes.

While rising prices have created challenges for homebuyers, whose incomes
generally have not kept pace, the trend has been good news for homeowners. Many
were burdened by mortgage debts that exceeded their home values. The S&P index
for October should show continued advances in housing prices.

Much of the rise in home prices has been fueled by limited inventories, which
have constrained sales. Still, the National Association of Realtors reported
last week existing home sales rose 0.7% in November to a seasonally adjusted
annual rate of 5.6 million, the fastest pace in nearly a decade. Rising mortgage
rates, which climbed from 3.47% in late October to 4.3% recently, may have
nudged some fence-sitters into buying before rates increase further. But higher
borrowing costs eventually may crimp sales.

The Realtor group's pending home sales index for November, which tracks contract
signings and foreshadows closings, is out Wednesday and could reveal if a
slowdown is on the way.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo KENA BETANCUR, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             176 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Arizona's governor gives a thumbs-up to Waymo

BYLINE: Alden Woods, The Arizona Republic

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 532 words


The car wore a hat, or something like it. A black cone had been perched on top.
Cameras and sensors jutted from every corner, and the center console had been
fitted with a giant red button, just in case.

Google's self-driving cars had been on Arizona streets for eight months. Now,
Gov. Doug Ducey was coming for his first ride.

"You're going to be taking me around today?" Ducey asked a Waymo employee.

"Yeah."

"I thought I was going to be driving this!"

Alphabet, Google's parent, split its self-driving car division into a separate
business unit named Waymo, clipped from the phrase "A new way forward in
mobility."

Car companies have tried to create autonomous cars for decades. Google's project
started in 2009, with a bulky set of cameras attached to a Toyota Prius. Soon
the company added a handful of Lexus models and weaned the cars onto city
streets in 2012. Three years later, a blind man took the company's first fully
autonomous ride: no pedals, no steering wheel, no driver.

Waymo's cars depend on a combination of real-time sensors and cameras,
human-like driving software and street mapping. As a Waymo car drives, its
sensors constantly scan up to 200 yards in all directions. If something
unexpected -- road work, traffic, a family's dog -- is detected, the car's
software takes over to slow down or shift lanes. Details like avoiding blind
spots are built into the software, and it has been designed to adapt over time.

The company said its cars have driven more than 2.5 million miles on public
streets with only 14 accidents, 13 of which it blamed on other drivers. Four
cars came to Chandler, a Phoenix suburb, earlier this year.

Ducey has opened Arizona to the sharing economy, pushing next-generation
technology companies to move to the desert. He supported granting ride-sharing
access to Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport. He created a Governor's
Council on the Sharing Economy, intended to loosen regulations on start-ups.

"I can think of no better place to push the boundaries and test those limits
than right here, in Arizona," Ducey said. "Google self-driving is a prime
example."

The vice mayor of Chandler hailed Ducey as a champion of innovation. The
director of AARP Arizona said self-driving cars would change lives for the
elderly.

A modified Lexus waited for Ducey on a side street. The faint outline of a
Google sticker had been covered by Waymo's blue-and-green "W" logo.

"I feel very safe," Ducey said as he sat in the backseat, but he pulled a seat
belt over his shoulder anyway. A Waymo executive and two other passengers slid
in. Ducey's security detail followed in a second car as the modified Lexus
pulled away.

A few minutes later, Ducey's car turned into the lot, stopping about 25 feet
short of its target.

"Boy, that's great technology," Ducey said. "It was silky-smooth. I know they
still have work to do, but it seems like they're a lot closer than people
thought."

Jennifer Haroon, Waymo's head of business, didn't have a specific timeline for
when self-driving cars would be on the market. There are still details to work
out, like how to program a car to wait in a school pick-up line.

Ducey didn't seem to mind. "I have a driver right now," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             177 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Atlas Recall visual search adds photographic memory to computers

BYLINE: Edward C. Baig, @edbaig, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 589 words


I don't have a photographic memory, much as I wish otherwise. But the remarkably
useful, if still imperfect, digital search tool I've been testing for more than
a month  called Atlas Recall has given my Mac a photographic memory.

The app, free for now and from Seattle start-up Atlas Informatics, promises that
"if you've seen it, you can search for it."

Why you want it. Behind the scenes, Atlas Recall indexes everything you've
looked at on your computer and lays them out in visual thumbnails when you
conduct a search. In other words, you don't just get a descriptive search result
or link, you get to actually see what you saw, at least most of the time.

Such thumbnails are organized by timeframe (today, last week, last year, etc.)
and/or by the type of digital item you've viewed or chosen to narrow the search
on. That could be Web pages, documents, email messages, chat messages, or all of
the above. For now, Recall can capture content from Safari and Chrome browsers
on a Mac, from Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook, and Adobe PDFs.

Clicking a thumbnail lets you open the underlying item inside Recall. You can
also click an "open at the same time" button to see what else was on your
screen when you were working on items you've searched on, the theory being you
might trigger memories based on shared events.

Data captured from your computer is encrypted and kept in the cloud, meaning
you'll need Internet connectivity to take advantage of Recall. It also means you
can run searches that span more than one machine.

Consider Atlas more as a complement rather than a substitute for Google or other
search engines. In fact, you can display Recall thumbnails in a panel adjacent
to the regular Google search results or as part of Spotlight searches on a Mac.
There are browser "extensions" for Google Chrome and Apple Safari as well.

I usually launched Recall directly and found more often than not  these visual
search results were exceedingly helpful. A recent search for "CES" found
exchanges I had with my editor about the upcoming trade show inside Slack,
invitations to press gatherings from email, along with relevant CES Web pages.

Limitations. For all its potential, Recall in its current incarnation has
limits. The app is an open beta and confined for now to Mac computers and iOS
devices. And the iOS version is merely a pointer to  digital items from your
computer, not items you've searched for on an iPhone.

Versions for Windows PCs and Android devices are promised.

Recall can search the metadata around a photo or video to reveal pictures or
images in your search. But there's no facial recognition tech currently built
into the app. Nor can Recall search back in time to uncover stuff you looked at
before you installed the app.

Among other known issues: In searching messaging apps such as Slack, WhatsApp or
Messages, Recall might open a screenshot instead of the actual messaging
application. Or it might open the app but not take you to the actual thread of
the conversation you're trying to find. The company says it is working on fixes.

Security. Yes, Recall captures screen grabs of every place you go  on the Web,
including, for example, your bank's website. Fortunately, you can remove items
from your search after the fact. You can also take preventative steps. Before
visiting sensitive sites, you can "pause" Recall for periods of 15 minutes, 30
minutes or one hour. You can also add websites to a "block list" which stops the
app from collecting information on the given site from then on.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Atlas Informatics

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             178 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

How will stocks make out in 2017?;
One optimistic bull calls for 10% rise, but average S&P 500 gain seen by Wall
Street pros is 4.4%

BYLINE: Adam Shell, @adamshell, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 615 words


The post-election stock rally and investor euphoria inspired by President-elect
Donald Trump's promise to boost corporate America's fortunes won't add up to big
market gains in 2017, a USA TODAY review of predictions from 15 Wall Street
strategists found.

The average year-end 2017 price target for the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index
is 2363, or 4.4% higher than Friday's close of 2264. The average gain predicted
for all of next year is less than the 5.8% gain the S&P 500 has enjoyed in the
27 trading days since Election Day, a stock surge dubbed the "Trump rally."

The low single-digit percentage gain forecast for 2017 is also well below the
10% annual return stocks have posted over long periods of time.

That's not to say Wall Street pros gazing into their crystal balls see a bear
market. Or a damaging recession. Or a market meltdown.

One prognosticator sees the S&P 500 gaining more than 10% next year, on top of
the 10.8% gain it has posted in 2016. Not one of the 15 strategists sees the
stock market posting losses next year. The lowest 2017 year-end price target --
2300 -- equates to a gain of less than 2%.

The year's biggest bull, or market cheerleader, is Jonathan Golub, chief equity
strategist at RBC Capital Markets. He sees the S&P 500 ending next year at 2500,
or 10.4% higher than Friday's close.

Golub sees stocks benefiting from Trump's pro-growth policies, which he says
will "amplify" trends that have been in the pipeline for months, such as a
strengthening U.S. economy and a shift toward rising interest rates and
inflation.

"Trump's policies are adding fuel to the fire," Golub said. "You are juicing a
system that's already torqued to the upside."

Golub expects profit growth at U.S. firms to "re-accelerate." He sees the S&P
500 growing profits at a 7.6% clip in 2017, up from about 1% this year.

The improving earnings picture, Golub says, will be driven in part by a better
business environment for banks and financial companies, which should gain from
rising rates and Trump's promise to abolish regulations. A profit recovery is
also expected for energy stocks, which will benefit from oil's rise back above
$50 per barrel. Golub sees even stronger profit growth in 2018 when Trump's
plans to slash corporate taxes, reduce regulation and spend on infrastructure
are more likely to be implemented and have a bottom-line impact. Corporate tax
cuts could add 5% to 7% to profits annually going forward, Golub believes.

The less bullish end of the spectrum is driven by concerns that market sentiment
will sour next year if Trump's plans are scaled back.

David Kostin, chief U.S. equity strategist at Goldman Sachs, sees the S&P 500
rising as high as 2400 in the first quarter of 2017 on Trump-driven "hope" but
then giving back a chunk of those gains and finishing the year at 2300, or 1.6%
higher than Friday's close.

The late-year 2017 pullback, he argues, will come as sentiment shifts to "fear"
over rising inflation and interest rates as well as concern that some members of
Congress may "constrain" some of Trump's tax-reform plans, eroding some of the
expected profit gains for U.S. companies. "Potential tariffs and uncertainty
around other policy prescriptions" may also weigh on stocks in 2017.

Savita Subramanian, equity and quantitative strategist at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch, says her modest 2300 year-end 2017 price target is contingent on
Trump getting the economy moving again as he promises.

"2017 could be anything but normal," she wrote in her 2017 outlook. "Against the
backdrop of elevated valuations, slow growth and limited scope for credit
expansion, our 2300 target ... is reliant on policymakers' ability to deliver
growth next year."

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Mark Lennihan, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             179 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

2016 was a tech year like no other;
From self-driving cars to botnets, a look back and ahead

BYLINE: Jon Swartz, @jswartz, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 740 words


The image was startling but a look into what could be tech's  future.

After being ostracized by the  industry for most of the election year, there sat
venture capitalist Peter Thiel, beaming, to the left of President-elect Donald
Trump at the Trump Tower Tech summit in mid-December.

Around him was a ring of glum-faced and pensive tech titans, including Apple's
Tim Cook, Amazon's Jeff Bezos, Alphabet's Larry Page and Facebook's Sheryl
Sandberg.

Silicon Valley's billionaire leaders had disavowed Trump during the campaign,
throwing their weight behind  Hillary Clinton. Only Thiel stumped for Trump, and
after the tech industry had turned on him for that and his role in Gawker's
failure, he was luxuriating in the I-told-you-so moment.

The display of power portends a roiling year or two in tech. Trump railed
against Amazon and Apple in tweets about corporate taxes and cyber security; now
he's likely to shape those issues as well as immigration reform, job creation,
trade with China, deregulation and more as he vowed during a bruising campaign.

"Tech is unusual in that the industry does not depend on government regulation
or transfer payments the way that banking, pharma, defense, agriculture and
energy do," says Roger McNamee, founding partner of venture-capital firm
Elevation Partners. "All tech needs is policy stability and access to global
markets. Trump prides himself on being unpredictable."

It was a topsy-turvy year for tech, which generated $3.5 trillion in domestic
economic output and accounted for more than 15 million people, or 8.4% of total
U.S. employment, according to the Computer Technology Association. There were
winners and losers among companies and technologies; new faces emerged while
others faded; and driverless cars and drones became more visible in our streets
and sky.

High-profile meltdowns

Whether computer breaches that compromised the personal information of millions
of consumers to a targeted hack by Russian operatives that conceivably tilted
the U.S. presidential election, the very nature of conflict transformed this
year, McNamee says.

And with the advent of the Internet of Things, the battlefield could extend to
our homes, security experts warn.

Samsung's stumble with the self-igniting Galaxy Note 7 was an epic meltdown of
quality control, distribution and marketing. Though it didn't dislodge the South
Korean electronics giant as the pre-eminent smartphone seller globally, it
undercut  trust.

Yahoo disclosed it had been the victim of two megahacks that compromised more
than 1.5 billion accounts and jeopardized its $4.8 billion deal with Verizon.

Our friends, the bots

Artificial intelligence is officially a craze -- Facebook, Apple, Google and
Microsoft are among those with aggressive plans. Virtual reality became more of
a reality. Drones are popping up in all shapes and sizes.

Self-driving cars took to the streets in Michigan, Pennsylvania, Arizona and
California. Fully autonomous cars won't be available for a few years, but a
Morgan Stanley study estimates they will lead to productivity gains of $507
billion annually as consumers spend less time commuting and more time in
meetings, writing reports and other business tasks.

Bots were ubiquitous, especially in the spread of fake news.

There was nothing fake, however, over fears on what AI and increased automation
will do to the workforce. This is sure to draw the attention of Trump, who
lambasted Apple for exporting jobs overseas and discussed jobs creation at the
tech summit.

The Trump effect

His focus on immigration reform will undoubtedly pinch H-1B visas and heighten
the urgency for increased STEM education. What is unclear is how it might play
into tech's stuttering attempts to become less homogenous by hiring more of the
women and minorities who buy its products but have little role in their design.

There are 500,000 computing jobs open in the U.S., with an expected 20% growth
rate over the next decade -- yet only 55,000 bachelor degrees in computer
science were doled out in 2014, according to Code.org and the Bureau of Labor
Statistics.

"It's more important than ever," says Dennis Yang, CEO of Udemy, an online
learning marketplace with more than 14 million students in 190 countries.

Tech's impasse with the Trump administration over job creation seems inevitable,
but there may be hope. In his meeting with the reluctant CEOs, Trump vowed to
keep the channels of communication open and meet quarterly.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             180 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Brain drain at Twitter pummels stock;
Departure of COO, CTO raises red flags for wary investors

BYLINE: Jessica Guynn, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 514 words


The T in Twitter might as well stand for turmoil.

Just weeks after its chief operating officer resigned, the company last week
lost two more senior executives, including its chief technology officer.

The unexpected departures pummeled the stock, which ended the week down 11%.
Some analysts believe shares, now trading in the $16 range from near $19 a week
ago, could retreat to their low, below $14, as investors lose confidence in
founder Jack Dorsey. That would be a very steep decline from its initial trading
price of $44.94 in 2013 and its all-time high of $74.73.

"One C-Level departure is a red flag; two in a quarter is very disconcerting,"
Mizuho Securities analyst Neil  Doshi said in a research note, referring to
executives whose titles begin with "chief," or C. "We view C-Level changes as
red flags for any business, and two unexpected C-level changes in a short period
of time could, in our opinion, create significant investment risks."

Doshi is not alone in being alarmed. SunTrust Robinson Humphrey analyst Rodney
Hull says he's concerned the wave of defections will continue.

"This level of turnover can be disruptive to morale and product execution," he
said.

Even more concerning: The turnover could jeopardize Twitter's business if
advertisers view Twitter "as a less stable platform to partner with," Doshi
said.

Chief Technology Officer Adam Messenger and Josh McFarland, vice president of
product, resigned last Tuesday. Messenger said in a tweet that he would "take
some time off." McFarland said he plans to join venture capital firm Greylock
Ventures as a general partner.

"We've shown our strategy is having a direct and positive impact on our audience
growth and engagement, and we're executing better and faster every day," Dorsey
said in a statement.

The revolving door in the executive suite is just the latest blow to Dorsey's
turnaround efforts.

Social media companies are prized for the fast growth of their audiences and of
their advertising businesses. Twitter has disappointed on both counts. It has
struggled to draw in new users even as competitors such as Facebook, Instagram
and Snapchat have thrived, often at Twitter's expense. That stagnation has put a
significant damper on Twitter's moneymaking abilities. The unprofitable company
posted revenue of $616 million in the third quarter, up 8% from the year-ago
period. In the fourth quarter, it's expected to generate $741.21 million, up 4%
year over year.

Dorsey returned as CEO in 2015, but his leadership has not revived the company's
sagging fortunes. After exploring a sale but attracting no bids, Twitter was
forced to cut 9% of its workforce to push for profitability.

Wedbush Securities analyst Michael Pachter notes Twitter has had a complete
turnover in senior operating roles since Dorsey took over.

"That is hardly a confidence builder for investors," Pachter said. "This is like
the winless Cleveland Browns cutting every player but their punter, kicker and
quarterback. They still need an offensive line to protect the quarterback and
still need skill position players to move the ball."

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Richard Drew, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             181 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

What happens to worker pay, benefits under President Trump?;
Republican's victory raises prospect federal initiatives may be dialed back,
revised

BYLINE: Paul Davidson, @Pdavidsonusat, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 1638 words


America's workers have made significant strides in recent years, with many
states, cities and companies raising the minimum wage or guaranteeing benefits
such as paid family leave. The Obama administration, meanwhile, has expanded
overtime pay and bolstered employees' legal rights.

Worker advocates trace the advances to new awareness of the  divide between low-
and middle-class workers and the wealthy.

Yet Donald Trump's win in the presidential race is raising the prospect federal
initiatives will be dialed back and that state and local efforts won't spur
national laws anytime soon. Although Trump has proposed  new employee benefits,
worker groups have said they are  limited. Trump's pick for Labor secretary,
fast-food executive Andy Puzder, has opposed  minimum wage hikes and increases
in overtime.

"He has selected somebody ... who has shown a great disdain for workers," says
Judy Conti, federal advocacy coordinator for the National Employment Law
Project, which supports workers' rights.

But Robert Cresanti, head of the International Franchise Association, called
Puzder "an incredibly caring CEO" who could be open to compromise. He
acknowledged, however, that the pendulum is likely to swing back toward
employers, at least at the federal level.

"We've been very much out of balance the last eight years," he says, adding that
constraints on businesses have curtailed new franchise openings and hiring.

At the same time, more states, cities and businesses are likely to try to fill
the national gaps by championing higher pay and benefits. Here's a rundown of
what lies ahead in 2017:

The minimum wage

A wave of minimum wage increases has marked the biggest success of a spreading
low-paid worker movement. Last year, seven states -- Arizona, California,
Colorado, Maine, New York, Oregon and Washington -- approved gradual hikes in
their minimum wages to $12 to $15 an hour through legislation or ballot
initiatives, according to NELP.

All of those states, except Oregon, will take the first step in that climb New
Year's Day, joining six others  in the midst of a multiyear increase and seven
more bumping pay floors through cost-of-living indexing. Later in 2017,
Maryland, Oregon and Nevada will lift their pay floors, as will 16 cities and
counties. Eight more states -- New Jersey, Vermont, Massachusetts, Connecticut,
Rhode Island, New Hampshire, Ohio and Pennsylvania -- will consider further
increases in their bases to $15 an hour.

All told, 29 states with 60% of the U.S. workforce have minimum wages higher
than the federal government's base of $7.25 an hour. Yet  Conti says a boost in
the federal pay floor is still needed, noting the 21 states stuck at $7.25
continue to fall behind the rest of the country and are not weighing increases
next year.

But Michael Saltsman, research director for the Employment Policies Institute,
which is backed by the restaurant industry, says the higher minimums have led to
the loss of hundreds of jobs in California alone as restaurants close or lay off
workers to offset the higher costs.

Legislation to raise the federal minimum to $10.10 an hour has been blocked by
Republicans in Congress. Trump has said he supports such an increase but wants
to leave it to the states. Puzder  has opposed raising the federal minimum, but
this year indicated he was open to lifting it "rationally," though he didn't
specify what that meant.

Noah Finkel, a wage-and-hour attorney at Seyfarth Shaw, believes Puzder could be
receptive to an increase to about $10 an hour, noting that's well below the $15
target of states such as California and New York. But Congress would have to
pass any hike.

Overtime pay

Last May, the Labor Department released a new rule nearly doubling the threshold
at which executive, administrative and professional employees are exempt from
overtime pay to $47,476 from $23,660. It was expected to make 4.2 million
workers newly eligible for time-and-a-half wages for each hour they put in
beyond 40 a week. But last month, a federal judge in Texas blocked the rule from
taking effect Dec. 1 as scheduled while he considers a broader challenge to the
requirement. Many experts expect the judge to overturn the mandate. And while
Labor has appealed the  order, Puzder could drop the appeal when he takes
office, Finkel says.

But, he adds, "In some ways, it's too late." Many businesses already increased
managers' salaries to the $47,476 threshold to avoid paying overtime or
converted salaried staffers to hourly employees so  hours can be tracked for
overtime. They're unlikely to reverse course, Finkel says.

Cresanti says the franchise industry opposes the higher salary threshold because
it will increase labor costs and eliminate jobs. But he says Puzder, currently a
member of the franchise association's board, could fashion a middle ground that
hikes the salary threshold less dramatically, making fewer employees eligible
for overtime pay.

The joint employer rule

Last year, the National Labor Relations Board issued a watershed decision that
could hold companies responsible for the labor practices of their contractors,
staffing firms and franchisees. The board said Browning-Ferris, the waste
management firm, had "indirect" control of the employees of a contractor,
Leadpoint, because it set a ceiling on wages for certain workers.

Fast-food workers and unions  who have argued McDonald's is a joint employer of
workers at its franchisees and so should have to negotiate with the chain's
employees across the country if they want to form a union cheered the ruling. A
separate complaint the NLRB is reviewing aims to hold McDonald's, the parent
company, responsible for discrimination against franchisees' employees that took
part in fast-food worker protests.

Conti says many franchisees can't afford to pay damages in lawsuits, while
McDonald's has deep pockets. And franchisors such as McDonald's so control "how
(franchisees) serve it, how you make it ... and prices" that they effectively
are co-employers.

Cresanti, however, says franchisors "do not hire employees ... do not fire
employees and don't set the hours of employees." Under the ruling, he says,
franchisors unfairly could be liable for labor, safety and other violations of
franchisees while the added costs would be passed to franchisees in higher
licensing fees. "This, for us, is crippling," he says.

Puzder has opposed the joint employer label, which still must be affirmed by
courts. But the NLRB is likely to remain under Democratic control until member
terms expire by 2018 and Trump can appoint Republican replacements who likely
would reverse the ruling. As a result, Cresanti is asking Congress to pass
legislation to do so.

Paid family leave

Momentum has been building for paid family leave, which allows employees -- both
mothers and fathers -- to care for a newborn, a newly adopted child or a
seriously ill relative for six or more weeks. A federal law has guaranteed
workers unpaid leave for up to 12 weeks since 1993.

Three states offer paid family leave (California, New Jersey and Rhode Island)
and New York this year approved 12 weeks  that begins to phase in in 2018. About
a dozen states are considering programs, and  Washington, D.C., this month
approved up to eight weeks of paid parental leave. Initiatives generally are
funded by employee-paid payroll taxes, except for Washington, D.C.'s, which is
paid by employers.

"It's about knowing you're not going to lose your wages or a job because you're
being a good family member or a good parent," says Liz Ben-Ishai, senior policy
analyst for the Center for Law and Social Policy.

The nation's blue-chip companies are also stepping up, with more than 50
announcing new or expanded leave policies the past two years, including Bank of
America, Coca-Cola and Amazon. This month, programs were expanded by American
Express for up to 20 weeks and IKEA for up to four months.

Still, only about 13% of private-sector workers are covered by paid family
leave, Ben-Ishai says.

A federal bill was blocked by Republicans in Congress three years ago. And so
the U.S. is the only industrialized country without a national paid family leave
program, Pew Charitable Trusts says. Trump has called for six weeks of maternity
leave. But Ben-Ishai says that would encourage employers to discriminate against
women in hiring and fails to recognize shared child care between parents.

Jack Mozloom, spokesman for the National Federation of Independent Business,
says the programs are burdensome for many small businesses who don't have the
staffs to cope with the lost manpower.

Paid sick leave

Surprisingly, 36% of private-sector workers don't get paid sick time, says the
National Partnership for Women and Families. Most are low-wage, hourly workers.

"If they are sick and miss a day or two, it might mean not feeding their
families or paying rent," Conti says.

Five states mandate paid sick leave -- California, Oregon, Connecticut,
Massachusetts and Vermont. Arizona and Washington state approved ballot measures
this year. But the prospects for a federal law are dim, Ben-Ishai says, with
Republicans blocking recent proposals in Congress.

Saltsman cites a study showing employers who offer paid sick time often reduce
other benefits or cut hours, particularly for younger, low-paid workers.

Subsidizing child care

Trump has proposed allowing parents to deduct child care expenses from their
income taxes. Lynette Fraga, head of Child Care Aware, says he "has opened the
door" to the issue, but a tax deduction would favor higher-income households.

It would be more effective, she says, to increase funding for child care for
low-income and working families through a block grant program.  That program
currently provides assistance to just one of 10 eligible children, according to
the National Association for the Education of Young Children.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo ERIK S. LESSER, EPA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             182 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Who is that soulful gorilla in 'Sing'?;
5 things to know about actor Taron Egerton

BYLINE: Bryan Alexander, @BryAlexand, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 495 words


Stars like Matthew McConaughey voicing the koala bear Buster Moon and Reese
Witherspoon as the hardworking mother pig Rosita are easily recognizable in the
animated hit Sing, now in theaters. But who voices the mysteriously soulful
gorilla Johnny, singing to stay out of his family's crime business?

That's Taron Egerton, better known as the toughie-turned-spy Eggsy from 2014's
Kingsman: The Secret Service.  Egerton does all of the  singing in his new voice
role.

"I've had more disbelief than I was expecting. I've had people saying 'That's
not you, is it?'  ... I guess that's a compliment," Egerton says.

Five things to know about the 27-year-old star:

He transforms in movies

Egerton went from the slick Eggsy with a six-pack stomach in his breakout
Kingsman role to the portly British underdog ski-jumper in January's Eddie the
Eagle. Eddie co-star Hugh Jackman said his "jaw hit the ground" when he saw the
transformation.

"I kept saying on set, the fact that this young man can go from Kingsman,
playing a superspy, to Eddie the Eagle is astonishing," Jackman told USA TODAY.
"I cannot think of anyone else in Hollywood who could do them both."

He's from a land of song

Egerton hails from Wales, United Kingdom, which has a proud singing tradition.

"It's singing and rugby. And I don't do the rugby," Egerton says. "I always sang
in school choirs and went on tours to other countries. I have always loved it.
It's a very communal thing."

He continued singing while studying acting at Britain's prestigious Royal
Academy of Dramatic Art. "But it's only been recent years that I ever considered
the possibility I might be in a movie called Sing," Egerton says.

His director was surprised

Director Garth Jennings said he wasn't aware of Egerton's vocal skills,  so he
had him audition. Instead of choosing from a list of suggested songs, Egerton
selected a favorite.

"I had Otis Redding's Pain in My Heart playing kind of on repeat. So I went in
and did These Arms of Mine, one of my favorite songs," Egerton says. Jennings
was blown away: "It was so moving and brilliant that I thought, even if a shred
of that comes through in the movie, we have got to go with this."

He loves the  music

Egerton hit Sam Smith's Stay With Me and Elton's John's I'm Still Standing in
Sing. He calls the songs "beautiful bits of soul." He has a special connection
with Sir Elton: They both star in the 2017 sequel Kingsman: The Golden Circle.
But Egerton hasn't discussed his Sing performance with John.  "I hope he likes
it. I'm sure he'll let me know."

He has many talents

Johnny struggles with the piano in Sing. Egerton knows the feeling. "I cannot do
it. I wish," he says. But he has fallen for  the Hawaiian ukulele.

"I can play Can't Help Falling in Love. That's the thing I have mastered," he
says.

He learned to ski for Eddie the Eagle but never tried an Olympic ski jump. "I
did set off from the top of one hill. But there was a net to catch me," Egerton
says. "It's really, really scary."

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Larry Horricks

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             183 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Soaring insulin prices prompt insurance shift;
Diabetics worry about what brands will be covered

BYLINE: Jayne O'Donnell, @jayneodonnell, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 750 words


Many parents of diabetic children and adults suffering with type 1 or type 2
diabetes are bracing for changes in insurance coverage of their insulin next
year, as prices of the vital medication continue to soar.

Higher insurance deductibles and changes in the prescription brands covered by
some insurers raise concerns among some people with diabetes.

CVS Caremark, a pharmacy benefit manager (PBM), will no longer cover the insulin
brand Lantus in favor of a new biosimilar version, Basaglar. Biosimilars are
considered the generic versions of "biologic" drugs that are based on natural
sources.

The company announced a program last week  to further keep diabetes costs down,
following a similar move in August by competitor Express Scripts.

Diabetes is an epidemic in the USA, affecting nearly 10% of the population or
about 29 million people, according to the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention. Of those, more than 8 million people are undiagnosed.

Type 1 diabetes -- often still called juvenile diabetes -- can occur when people
are children or adults. Type 2 diabetes is becoming more common with the
increase in obesity and sedentary behavior.

Prices for Humalog and many insulin brands have increased from about $300 to
$500 from January 2013 to October 2016, according to drug discount search
company GoodRx. Lantus increased about 60% -- from $240 to $380 -- in the same
time period, GoodRx says.

"It's definitely unfortunate prices are going up so much and impacting the
people who need it to stay alive," says Henry Anhalt, an Englewood, N.J.,
pediatric endocrinologist. "But I think a big part of the problem is how much
(insurers) cover and how much they fight you."

The amount of insulin a diabetes patient needs every day depends on what they
are going to eat, how much they will exercise and their stress level, says
Anhalt, chief medical officer of the T1D Exchange, which researches ways to
better manage diabetes and runs an online community for people with type 1
diabetes.

Changes in the formularies -- the lists of drugs covered by insurers and
pharmacy benefit managers -- make many patients anxious, Anhalt says.

But Troyen Brennan, a physician and chief health officer at CVS Caremark, says
he's heard "very little complaint with regard to stress levels." Basaglar has
been proven to be "exactly equivalent if not slightly better," he says.

Patients who have a bad reaction to a change in insulin can request an exception
to the formulary, Brennan says.

Kristina Blake has type 1 diabetes and insurance through the city of San Diego,
her previous employer. Her deductible has increased by 400%, so she "will be
dealing with the retail prices next year," she says. She is considering
switching to Basaglar for her insulin pump.

Because she will always need insulin, Blake says, "I accept that I am a cash
cow."

Until insurers started fighting back against price increases by raising
deductibles and changing formularies, the companies' reactions to price hikes
tended to get more attention than the actual prices. That's starting to change.

In the past four years, Blake says, her receipts show the price for three vials
of Humalog nearly quadrupled, adding that it's not "a new and improved
medication."

"That's disgusting," she says.

Drugmakers say price increases are necessary to fund innovation and note that
the portion of the price going to PBMs and wholesalers is confidential. The PBM
trade group says the industry has little choice but to fight back.

"Employers, unions and government programs that offer these benefits don't have
much choice but to spend their resources on competitively priced (medications)
that offer the same or better value," says Mark Merritt, CEO of the trade group
Pharmaceutical Care Management Association.

Nearly $5,000 is spent on average per diabetes patient every year on medical
expenses that could have been avoided if patients had taken their diabetes
medications as prescribed, according to Express Scripts.

Improperly treated diabetes can lead to loss of limbs, kidney function and
vision.

Mindy Bartleson, 24, was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes when she was 7 and lost
good insurance coverage when her father died of cancer when she was 12.

"I remember what it was like to be floating around trying to get on a low-income
insurance," says Bartleson, a program assistant with the College Diabetes
Network. "After I gradated from college and got to switch to a new insurance
company, my stress level went down because I wasn't in survival mode."

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Family photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             184 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

MOVIE STAR OF THE YEAR: Dwayne Johnson

BYLINE: Bryan Alexander, @BryAlexand, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 340 words


Dwayne Johnson had never sung onscreen before tackling  Disney's South Pacific
adventure Moana, with an original song specially written by -- gulp -- Hamilton
creator Lin-Manuel Miranda.

Miranda gave the man known universally as The Rock vital advice for performing
You're Welcome, a song-demand for mortal thanks from Johnson's demigod Maui for
legendary deeds.

"The key thing Lin told me beforehand, he said: 'Own it. Own the the song. I
wrote it for you. There's no one else on this planet who can sing, 'You're
Welcome' with a smile and make people feel good,'" Johnson told USA TODAY.

It's true. No one else could sing  "I know it's a lot, the hair, the bod. When
you're staring at a demigod" and bring laughs like Johnson can and did. The Rock
owned You're Welcome and threw his outsized personality into  Maui. He was the
engine that propelled the animated Moana to box office smash success over
Thanksgiving.

Johnson, 44, could make You're Welcome a  theme song for his movie career, which
is hitting unlikely legendary status. The former college football player turned
pro wrestler turned one-man movie industry churned at full throttle in 2016, the
year he was named People's Sexiest Man Alive.

There are the  continuous projects, like  Dec. 13's  mega-event Rock the Troops
on SpikeTV to honor the military. He also completed a second season of his HBO
drama Ballers as a former athlete turned financial manager.

Onscreen, he teamed up with Kevin Hart for the buddy-comedy hit Central
Intelligence. The two are giving  master classes on how to work it in Hollywood,
grinding non-stop, reaching out on social media (The Rock has 10.7 million
Twitter followers and 72.5 million Instagram followers) and  flashing superstar
smiles.

He has  set himself up for an even more demigod-like 2017,  adding his franchise
Viagra to The Fate of the Furious (April 14), showing that bod and those comedy
chops in the R-rated Baywatch (May 26) and the year-ending release of the
adventure Jumanji.

So, Rock, you're definitely due for this: Thank you.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Dan MacMedan, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             185 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

AUTHOR OF THE YEAR: Colson Whitehead

BYLINE: Jocelyn McClurg, @jocelynmcclurg, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 301 words


The Underground Railroad (Doubleday), Colson Whitehead's gloriously inventive
novel about slavery, kept picking up steam as 2016 rolled along.

Oprah Winfrey picked it for her book club in August, and it became an instant
USA TODAY best seller.

President Obama, fresh off vacation, said Americans should read it.

In a final wow, it won the National Book Award for fiction in November.

For all those reasons -- and because The Underground Railroad is, simply, a
well-told story that's wonderful to read -- Whitehead is USA TODAY's Author of
the Year.

The success of Underground Railroad has elevated Whitehead, 47, to a whole new
level of fame and acclaim. He wrote his first novel, The Intuitionist, about
elevator inspectors, in 1999. Like The Underground Railroad, it dealt with race
and included fantastical elements.

Railroad, Whitehead's sixth novel, combines harsh reality -- slavery in the
antebellum South -- with a vividly imagined alternative world, one in which the
Underground Railroad is a literal subterranean network of tracks and stations.

Whitehead's heroine, a runaway teenage slave named Cora, is a strong-willed
survivor, a girl on a train escaping, she hopes, to freedom. Getting there will
not be easy.

Winfrey, who played a slave in the movie version of Beloved, described The
Underground Railroad as "one of the most grim, gripping, powerful novels about
slavery I have ever experienced."

And in an interview with CNN's Fareed Zakaria, Obama called Whitehead's novel a
"terrific book, powerful in discussing some of the issues around race and
American history."

Terrible things happen in Railroad, but there is light at the end of the tunnel.
As Winfrey said in making her selection: "At the end you feel a sense of
inspiration. ... I think (there is) no better book for a time such as this."

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Michael Lionstar

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             186 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

MUSICIAN OF THE YEAR: Beyoncé

BYLINE: Maeve McDermott, @maeve_mcdermott, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 329 words


Perhaps the biggest artist of her generation, Beyoncé just had her biggest year.
Her timeline of success is undeniable, bookended by her Super Bowl performance
in February and her nine Grammy nominations in December, with her Lemonade
film/album double whammy and its  world tour in between.

Headlines, memes and political controversies aside, Queen Bey had some
competition for her domain over 2016's music narrative.  Drake trumped the
competition with his staggering sales, blazing a path through hip-hop's
hierarchy with Views, an album that, despite middling reviews,  outsold the
competition in record-breaking numbers. And if our musician of the year was
determined by  outrageous headlines, Kanye West would win the title; his
sweeping 2016 consisted of a boundary-breaking album, clothing line and
spectacular tour before skidding to a halt with his  hospitalization.

Perhaps it helps that Beyoncé's album, according to critics' consensus, was
better than theirs -- and better than most of her other  peers' work this year.
Remarkably, Lemonade simultaneously dominated music's mainstream and rejected
it, positioned as a sumptuous audiovisual experience rather than a parade of
hits. Continuing her trend away from the Hot 100-topping singles of her early
career, she rejected the bloated, streaming-friendly records her competition
released in favor of a concise, playful collection of songs that renewed our
faith in the album -- not the No. 1 single -- as music's most essential unit.
And music's most mainstream institution reaffirmed Lemonade's power, with
Beyoncé leading the Grammys pack.

But beyond her "slaying" and "hot sauce in her bag," the singer's social
activism  cemented her status as one of her generation's most important voices,
which she leant to the Black Lives Matter movement time and again this year.
Only time will tell how Beyoncé makes her voice heard going forward, but as she
has proven this year, hers is among culture's most essential.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Kevin Mazur, WireImage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             187 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

In his own words: Fame, creativity, sexuality;
The pop icon at his most outspoken and introspective

BYLINE: Jaleesa M. Jones, and Kim Willis, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 402 words


Stunned and saddened by the loss, George Michael's famous friends and
collaborators spent the day after Christmas remembering and admiring the '80s
pop icon, who died of heart failure over the holiday.

Sam Smith hailed Michael as "one of the most magical, talented, bravest and
important figures in music and life as I know it," tweeting Monday that "I would
not be the artist I am if it wasn't for (him)."

Paul McCartney praised the star's "sweet soul music" and self-deprecating humor,
and Mariah Carey cited him as an inspiration.

Michael's former Wham! bandmate Andrew Ridgeley called him "the finest
singer/songwriter of his generation."

But few understood the 53-year-old talent as well as he knew himself. Here are
the best insights from his interviews with USA TODAY:

On fame

"I believe I have some kind of gift, but I don't believe in myself as a star. To
be happy as a star, you have to believe you're really removed from people. I've
never been comfortable with that. I know that deep down I'm the same as everyone
else." (1990)

"I don't think I will ever be a big star in America again. The music industry
here is a hard sell. The only way to be a star again is to spend my life
promoting myself in a way that I find cheapening." (1998)

"The irony about losing success in America is that it was really the thing I
needed to lose. If I wanted my ego stroked, I could turn the radio on anywhere
in Europe. I felt left alone here, and lucky. It was like being on holiday from
me." (1998)

On his looks

"The person I was four or five years ago was perfectly happy to stand in front
of a camera all day. Now it makes me so miserable. I've never been happy with
the way I looked. Maybe I needed physical adulation to make up for things I
didn't see in myself. ... I realize it's not everything to be attractive."
(1990)

On suffering and art

"You find hidden depths when you're faced with such pain. But I'm definitely one
of those people who would rather be happy and less creative than miserable. I've
been the tortured artist completely involuntarily for five or six years and I
have no intention of doing it anymore." (1998)

On his sexuality

"Over here (in the U.S.), it looks like I was dragged out, but I outed myself
with the last album. I did interviews that said everything except the three
words they wanted to hear. I was trying to retain my privacy and dignity without
lying." (1998)

Contributing: Edna Gundersen

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Andrew Weber, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             188 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

'Swamp' likely to win vs. Trump;
Presidents try to overhaul federal government -- and largely fail

BYLINE: Donovan Slack, @donovanslack, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 686 words


President-elect Donald Trump frequently pledged during the campaign that he
would slash the size of the federal government and rein in spending, once
proclaiming, "We will cut so much, your head will spin."

The bombastic business titan is about to come face to face with Washington, that
"swamp" he wants to drain. Non-partisan specialists and others who have tried
before suggest the odds are not in his favor.

Most  presidents in modern times have mounted an effort to streamline the
federal bureaucracy, and all have largely failed. In 2012, President Obama
proposed merging parts of six agencies and cutting more than 1,000 federal jobs.
Congress wasn't having it.

"It worse than died, it was assassinated on the Hill," said Donald Kettl,
University of Maryland professor and author of Escaping Jurassic Government: How
to Recover  America's Lost Commitment to Competence.

Likewise, President George W. Bush put forth a "Management Agenda" to overhaul
the bureaucracy, and Bill Clinton pushed a "Reinventing Government" plan. "In
each case, executive branch efforts to reform management were viewed with
skepticism (by Congress)," John Kamensky, deputy director of Clinton's
initiative, and Jonathan Breul, a budget management adviser during both
administrations, wrote in a paper about lessons learned. "As a consequence, few
pieces of significant legislation were enacted."

In 1984, President Ronald Reagan convened a commission of private-sector
executives and experts who offered more than 2,000 recommendations to reduce
waste, improve management and restructure the government. Named the Grace
Commission, it said the changes would save taxpayers $424 billion over three
years.

"Absolutely nothing came of it. Absolutely nothing," said Paul Light, New York
University professor and author of 25 books, including Thickening Government:
Federal Hierarchy and the Diffusion of Accountability.

Light said the last successful major overhaul of the federal government was in
the 1950s. He said there are a mix of forces fighting to keep the status quo,
not the least of which is Congress.

"All duplication and overlap flows downhill from Congress," Light said.
"Committees create these different programs, and they don't want to do anything
about it."

Kenneth Baer, who was associate director of the White House Office of Management
and Budget when Obama made his push, said there's no incentive for members of
Congress to cut anything.

"For all their talk about getting rid of this or that, the truth is that they
don't want to get rid of any of it," he said.

The non-partisan Government Accountability Office has issued annual reports
since 2011 on wasteful spending and has identified hundreds of fixes that could
save taxpayers billions of dollars.

The GAO report this year said the IRS could be collecting $385billion more in
taxes annually, and millions could be saved by reducing overlapping programs.

Food safety, for instance is overseen by 12 different agencies. Eight agencies
administer more than 100 programs supporting individuals suffering from mental
illness.

Of 544 fixes recommended by the GAO in the past five years, 244 have been
completed.

Orice Williams Brown, a GAO managing director who helped coordinate this year's
report, said that because eliminating programs is so difficult, Congress often
just layers new ones on top.

"There really wasn't an appetite to step back and say, 'Let's put aside what we
currently have, and let's think about what we would do if we were starting over
today,'" Williams Brown said.

Some people are optimistic about Trump's chances of  improving the bureaucracy,
particularly given his Cabinet picks, which include  executives from the private
sector and members of Congress.

His pick to lead the Office of Management and Budget, Rep. Mick Mulvaney,
R-S.C., is a deficit hawk.

"In my view, they are better positioned than the members of prior
administrations, high-ranking members of prior administrations, to come in and
start getting to work right away," said Tom Schatz, president of Citizens
Against Government Waste, a group founded by the leaders of Reagan's commission.


LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Andrew Harnik, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             189 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

On upset weekend, injury bug stings hard;
Postseason likely will be loaded with backup QBs

BYLINE: USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 797 words


The 40 things we learned from Week 16 of the NFL season:

1. Here is all you need to know about Week 16: The teams that entered the
weekend with the three worst records in the league -- Browns (1-14), 49ers
(2-13) and Jaguars (3-12) -- won.

2. Any Given Saturday.

3. Still, a cloud hung over the weekend with the severe injuries suffered by
Raiders quarterback Derek Carr and Titans QB Marcus Mariota.

4. (This is not to diminish the other injuries, especially Seahawks WR Tyler
Lockett, but it's a quarterback league.)

5. Has there been a fan base more tortured than that of the Raiders this season?
The increasing possibility of a move to Las Vegas and now Carr -- happening less
than five quarters away from the playoffs.

6. And one more note that will keep Raiders fans awake at night (#Raidernation
does sleep, right?): Carr's injury came on the only sack the Raiders allowed
Saturday and the first allowed by LT Donald Penn all season.

7. By the way, half of the AFC playoff field could be starting backup
quarterbacks: Texans (Tom Savage), Raiders (Matt McGloin) and Dolphins (Matt
Moore).

8. If we made that list "AFC teams who enter the playoffs with a QB who did not
start Week 1," the number rises to four since that Tom Brady guy somehow won the
job back in New England after missing the first four games.

9. For the record, the San Diego Chargers were the first team to score a
touchdown in the early games Saturday.

10. A 346-pound lineman threw a touchdown pass for Kansas City. Fat guy
touchdown. #santatribute

11. Say one thing about Chip Kelly. He has the Rams' number. #whodoesnt

12. The Antonio Brown catch-and-stretch -- thanks Jarrett Bell for that term --
is a video clip you will see over and over.

13. For the second consecutive week, the Redskins and their fans had to cheer
for ... the Cowboys.

14. Thursday night, Eagles QB Carson Wentz cleared concussion protocol, and a
couple of plays after re-entering the game, coach Doug Pederson called a reverse
that required Wentz to block. We wondered if Pederson needed his head examined
after that one.

15. Who would have believed the biggest question the Giants have entering the
playoffs is the play of QB Eli Manning?

16. Referee Gene Steratore couldn't help but chuckle before announcing the
following penalty on the Jets: "False start, offense, everyone but the center."

17. Can't say we think Mike Mularkey, Rex Ryan or Todd Bowles did anything to
cool their respective hot seats.

18. The Jets' bickering in the locker room doesn't help Bowles. Neither does the
fact he went for a field goal when trailing the Patriots 41-0. #huh

19. The Bills not knowing how to tackle doesn't help Ryan.

20. For Mularkey, the failure of his special teams to execute on two last-play
situations this season is a big reason he might get fired. Think about that.

21. Oh, those kickers. They were unusually bad this weekend. And that's saying
something.

22. Carson Palmer is 3-0 in Seattle. Go figure.

23. One of the strange sounds we heard this weekend was the crowd cheering in
Jacksonville. Been awhile.

24. It got lost with the other QB injuries -- and, thankfully, because he was OK
-- but when Aaron Rodgers lay on the field Saturday it was so quiet at Lambeau
you could heard cheese aging.

25. Are we sleeping too much on the Kansas City Chiefs?

26. Not sure anyone had a better weekend than Matt Lengel. First career
reception, and it was a touchdown. From Tom Brady. #pinchme

27.  The Vikings season: from last undefeated team to out of the playoff picture
in Week 16.

28. But it sounds like there are bigger problems in Minnesota than that. Players
freelancing on Mike Zimmer? Whoa.

29. So the Packers played at home Saturday; the Lions on the road Monday night.
That means Green Bay has about 56 more hours to prepare and rest their bodies
than Detroit before Sunday's NFC North showdown.

30. Yeah, that's fair.

31. The most underrated player of the season: Dolphins RB Jay Ajayi.

32. It seems Falcons QB Matt Ryan has fallen out of the MVP talk. Why?

33. It might not mean much to the Ravens, but Ravens-Steelers on Sunday was
another classic to add to that rivalry. Wow.

34. Chiefs TE Travis Kelce is doing his best to be known for more than just
having a reality show.

35. The Tampa Bay Buccaneers. One of those teams to watch in 2017.

36. In the end, the Broncos just turned out to be pretty mediocre this season.
Nothing more. Nothing less.

37. Cam Newton's completion rate in the last six games: 45.3%.

38. Suffice it to say forgetting his hat wasn't the only thing that went wrong
for Newton this season.

39. This is the first time since 2003 that neither Super Bowl team reached the
playoffs the next season. So there's that.

40. The Week 17 schedule: Teams will be playing more for playoff positioning
than playoff spots. Not nearly as exciting.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Kelley L. Cox, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             190 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Japanese leader to visit Pearl Harbor with Obama;
Abe makes first formal trip by Japanese PM to American sacred place

BYLINE: David Jackson, @djusatoday, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 568 words


More than 75 years after the attack on Pearl Harbor, remembrance and
reconciliation are the themes Tuesday as Japan's prime minister makes the first
formal visit by a Japanese leader to the site where the world changed forever.

Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and President Obama will speak at the commemoration of
the Japanese air attack in 1941 that drew the United States into the Second
World War. Abe landed at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam for the historic visit
Monday.

Obama and Abe will meet privately to discuss the state of the U.S.-Japanese
alliance, one that could undergo stark changes after Donald Trump becomes
president next month.

"The two leaders' visit will showcase the power of reconciliation that has
turned former adversaries into the closest of allies," the White House said in
announcing the visit this month.

Obama and Abe plan to make remarks at the memorial built atop the bombed-out
hull of the USS Arizona, which sank to the bottom of the harbor Dec. 7, 1941.
The attack, on what President Franklin D. Roosevelt called "a date which will
live in infamy," killed more than 2,400 Americans. Abe probably won't apologize
for the Pearl Harbor attack, but he is likely to express sympathy for the
victims.

Monday, Abe visited the Ehime Maru Memorial near downtown Honolulu where a U.S.
Navy submarine, the USS Greeneville, sunk a Japanese fishing vessel, killing
nine people in 2001. Hawaiian Gov. David Ige and Caroline Kennedy, U.S.
ambassador to Japan, were among those who joined Abe at the memorial, the
Associated Press reported.

In announcing his visit this month, the Japanese prime minister said, "We must
never repeat the horror of war. ... I want to express that determination as we
look to the future and at the same time send a message about the value of
U.S.-Japanese reconciliation."

The Obama-Abe meeting takes place less than a month before Obama will leave the
White House and Trump will enter it.

During the presidential campaign, Trump talked about changing trade policies
worldwide and requiring Japan and other allies to pay more for security
assistance. Abe met with the president-elect face to face last month at Trump
Tower.

The Obama-Abe meeting in Hawaii is designed "to review our joint efforts over
the past four years to strengthen the U.S.-Japan alliance, including our close
cooperation on a number of security, economic and global challenges," according
to the White House statement.

In many ways, Abe's visit reciprocates Obama's trip this year to Hiroshima, site
of the first U.S. atomic attack on Japan that ended the war in 1945.

Trump weighed in on the trip in May, tweeting at the time, "Does President Obama
ever discuss the sneak attack on Pearl Harbor while he's in Japan? Thousands of
American lives lost."

Technically, Abe will not be the first Japanese leader to visit Pearl Harbor. In
1951, Prime Minister Shigeru Yoshida went to the site during a stopover in
Hawaii after an international conference in San Francisco.

Abe is the first to make an official trip to Pearl Harbor and to speak publicly
about what happened there.

During a joint address to the U.S. Congress in 2015, Abe noted that he had paid
a visit to the World War II Memorial in Washington.

"History is harsh -- what is done cannot be undone," Abe said at the time. "I
offer with profound respect my eternal condolences to the souls of all American
people that were lost during World War II."

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Stephane De Sakutin, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             191 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Cop videos: Public record or not?;
Vexing questions linger about privacy, value of police footage

BYLINE: Miranda S. Spivack, Center for Public Integrity

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1621 words


It took more than a year for Chicago police -- under pressure from the media and
the public -- to release video footage of the shooting in 2014 that left Laquan
McDonald dead, with 16 bullets in his body. When a judge finally insisted the
video be released, it cast doubt on the police department's version of events.

Witnesses and family members maintained that McDonald hadn't lunged at police
with a knife. The 17-year-old did have a knife and slashed a tire on the police
cruiser. The video, which was from a police dashboard camera, showed him walking
away before he was fatally shot. Officer Jason Van Dyke was charged with
first-degree murder.

The long delay in the video's public release points to questions that have vexed
many police departments, civil liberties advocates and elected officials: Under
what circumstances should footage from police body and dashboard cameras be made
public, and how much should be released?

The issue has become more pressing after the Obama administration's award of
more than $41million in the past two years to help law enforcement agencies buy
body cameras for officers. The purpose, outgoing Attorney General Loretta Lynch
said, is to "build upon efforts to mend the fabric of trust, respect and common
purpose that all communities need to thrive."

The grant money came with little guidance about how localities should handle
resulting requests for the public release of hundreds of hours of video. Are
these ordinary public records that would be disclosed under most state public
records laws?

How do agencies protect private information -- such as bystanders' identities --
that in documents might be blacked out?

More than 60 jurisdictions in more than half of the states and the District of
Columbia have adopted body cameras, but many almost immediately restricted
public access to the footage. The types of limits range widely, but some states
-- including Kansas, Missouri, North Carolina and South Carolina -- make it
nearly impossible to release footage. Florida has enacted restrictions that give
wide leeway to law enforcement agencies to withhold footage from the public,
saying videos shot in private settings or those in which the subject has a
"reasonable expectation of privacy" can be exempted from public disclosure.
Other states are trying to craft similar exemptions.

"This is an area that is difficult," said Rachel Levinson-Waldman, senior
counsel at the Brennan Center for Justice at the New York University School of
Law, which tracks police body camera use. "It raises knotty questions about the
tensions between privacy and the values of public disclosure."

In Baltimore, which is in the process of outfitting about 1,400 officers with
body cameras, officials hope the devices will help explain police actions more
clearly, even as the city has been roiled by an incident that was only partially
caught on camera.

A civilian with a cellphone  shot video of police loading Freddie Gray, 25, into
the back of a police van in April 2015. Gray died of injuries while in police
custody, prompting a series of protests and failed prosecutions.

The pressure to place body cameras on law enforcement officers grew in part from
the proliferation of civilian videos from smartphones documenting police conduct
up close and in real time. Civil liberties advocates say police abuse exposed by
such videos is not new, but it had been almost impossible to document before
everyone had the technology in their pockets.

behavior on Camera

Police body and dashboard cameras may provide additional proof of abuse,
overcoming ambiguities common in police-civilian disputes. The videos also can
be useful to police, who can use them to prove that accusations against them are
untrue and, perhaps more significant, as investigative tools.

In theory, though largely undocumented, the threat that video footage could be
made public can affect, and possibly improve, police and civilian behavior. A
study conducted over 12 months in 2012 and 2013 by the Rialto, Calif.,  police
chief found that when police and civilians know they are being filmed, everyone
behaves more calmly, and use of force is less common.

In 2015, the Center for Evidence-Based Crime Policy at George Mason University
in Virginia did a survey of the state of research on body cameras' impact on
behavior and public disclosure of footage. The findings suggest that much more
information is needed to measure the effectiveness of body-worn cameras and
public disclosure.

The survey concluded, "The need for more research in this area is paramount, as
the adoption of (body-worn cameras) will likely have important implications for
police-citizen interactions, police management and budgets, safety and security,
citizen privacy, citizen reporting and cooperation with police, and practices in
the courts."

One thing is certain: The body camera clipped to an officer's clothing has
vastly improved the quality of police videos.

Though many departments have had dashboard cameras for several years, the body
camera, usually pointed at the person with whom the officer interacts, provides
clearer images, more close-ups and better audio.

It's unclear whether the Obama administration's professed goal of using these
cameras to provide greater transparency and police accountability will be
realized.

The incoming administration of President-elect Donald Trump and his attorney
general nominee,  Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., have staked out a distinctly
pro-police platform in which local control is preferred over federal
involvement, leaving it likely that decisions about publicly releasing body
camera footage will be made by state legislatures, city councils, county
officials, police chiefs and sheriffs.

During the campaign, Trump filled out a questionnaire from the Fraternal Order
of Police. He was asked about body cameras and whether his administration would
guarantee that footage would not be used to discredit officers' privacy or
reputations, particularly during contract negotiations with police unions.

Trump answered, "The federal law enforcement agencies that will be using
Body-Worn Cameras will do so with the proper balance between good management and
protection of privacy. Abuse of power is never tolerated, whether such actions
are taken by individual officers in the performance of their duties or by
supervisors following up on procedure and protocol."

Though many jurisdictions have obtained Department of Justice grant money, the
New York Police Department has been a slow adopter. In 2013, after a federal
judge said the 35,800 officers' use of stop and frisk was unconstitutional, the
department was ordered to set up a body camera pilot program, but it has not
done so.

As restrictions on disclosure coincide with the use of the body cameras,
questions have arisen about what police will do with all the footage and whether
retaining it solely for investigations meets the goals of the grants.

"Is it just another evidence tool for police and not a tool for police
accountability?" said Sarah Lustbader a former public defender in  Bronx, N.Y.
"This is a contrast to what the public is expecting."

Carlton Mayers, policy counsel for the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund,
said the public should be able to get data that police can cull from the videos
about who gets stopped, as well as where and why they are stopped, and that data
should be sorted by race and gender. That way, he said, the public can assess
whether there is any illegal profiling.

"We have been pushing to condition data collection ... on having it be publicly
reported," he said. "The data belong to the community."

There is debate over whether the body-camera videos tell a complete story of
what happened. What is recorded can vary greatly, depending on the camera angle,
lighting and sound quality and whether an officer narrates the video as it is
recorded.

In Baltimore, surveillance video from outside a liquor store near a fatal police
shooting in April showed discrepancies between what police said happened and
what witnesses reported to the news media.

One witness claimed the would-be robber, Robert Jerome Howard, ran into the
liquor store for safety and was confronted by the off-duty police officer inside
the store. Another witness told the media that the officer was "fussing" with
Howard.

Police officials said the officer's shooting was justified after the video
showed Howard had followed the officer into the store, contradicting the witness
claims, before he tried to rob the officer. Police said the gun Howard was
holding turned out to be a replica firearm.

policies vary

A recent study done for the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights by
Upturn, a Washington consulting firm, found a wide range of policies about when
and for how long cameras should be turned on; whether officers can review
footage before writing their reports, which could skew the results and limit the
value of the footage as an accountability tool (most are allowed to see the
video before a report is filed); whether they can use facial recognition
technology in videos for other investigations (many can); and whether department
policies about the use of body cameras are easily accessible by the public.

The report found that as of August, 43 of the 68 major city law enforcement
departments used body cameras and had created  written policies to guide their
use.

Getting access to those policies -- never mind viewing the footage -- can be a
challenge. The report said 24 agencies did not make their policies available on
their websites, an omission that "hinders robust public debate about how body
cameras should be used."

Miranda S. Spivack is the Pulliam Distinguished Visiting Professor of Journalism
at DePauw University.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Chicago Police Department via AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             192 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Trump takes baby steps to avoid conflicts of interest

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 491 words


Presidents and vice presidents are exempt from most ethics laws that affect
other elected and appointed government officials. But they are not exempt from
the Constitution's clause barring public office holders from accepting
"emoluments" (gifts arising from serving in office) by any foreign government.

Which makes the government of Kuwait's recent decision to move an annual event
to the Trump International Hotel in Washington all the more interesting. On the
surface, this kind of behavior would seem to be exactly what the Founding
Fathers were trying to protect against.

If that weren't enough, the hotel has another problem. The old post office
building it occupies on Pennsylvania Avenue is not owned by Trump, or a private
real estate investment trust, but by the federal government. So as of Jan. 20,
Trump will effectively be both landlord and tenant.

In fact, any Trump project anywhere in the world could cause problems: allowing
foreign interests to curry favor by spending money in ways that benefit the
Trump family; entangling Trump projects in litigation or local scandals; or
becoming a target for terrorists.

The president-elect has a mess on his hands in trying to maintain a business
empire while also serving as president. He recently cancelled a press conference
in which he was going to explain his plan for avoiding conflicts and is now
expected to announce the plan sometime in January.

In recent days, Trump has taken some baby steps toward disentangling his
business and political interests by dissolving his personal charitable
foundation, ending some foreign development deals and considering an idea for an
outside financial monitor.

But ideally Trump would put the conflict-of-interest questions to rest by
divesting his holdings and putting the proceeds in a blind trust. Given the
complexity of unwinding his company, this process might take a while.

What he should not do is simply turn the business over to his sons, Donald Jr.
and Eric, and other executives, which appears to be the plan. Having his
children run the business accomplishes  nothing in shielding Trump from
conflicts of interest. Anyone would know that doing business with the Trump
Organization would ultimately benefit Donald Trump.

Trump has further complicated matters  by announcing that the  same children who
would run the Trump Organization would also be part of his transition team. They
participated in a recent meeting with technology leaders and have been involved
in personnel decisions for the incoming Trump administration. In other words,
they are using their transition positions to make key business contacts and to
select the government officials they might interact with while running the Trump
Organization.

Trump has been defiant in saying he could avoid conflicts without selling off
his empire. As time goes by, he will undoubtedly wish he had moved more
aggressively to get out of the ethical thicket he's creating for himself.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Alex Brandon, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             193 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

The U.S. failed Israel on the international stage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 453 words


LETTERS

Dec. 23, 2016 will be marked down as a day of infamy. President Barack Obama
betrayed America and Israel. The U.S.'s abstention on the measure to cease
Israeli settlements at the United Nations Security Council will be Obama's
legacy.

The 14 members who voted against the only free country in the Middle East -- a
country where Jews, Muslims and Christians are equal under the law -- are
pathetic.

Out of those who voted in favor of the measure, democratic countries like the
United Kingdom and France are cowed by their terror-prone Muslim immigrants. On
the other hand, New Zealand, one of the sponsors of the resolution, seems to
have adopted anti-Israel policies in recent years. The others are all Muslim
dictatorships or failed states, where human rights are non-existent.

Not one of the 14 can compare with Israel's technological or intellectual
successes, in my opinion. Shame on them all.

Len Bennett

Deerfield Beach, Fla.

FACEBOOK

President Obama's final slap to Israel will cause repercussions for years to
come. A final act of an utterly failed foreign policy.

Cheyne Patterson

We should support Israel, but not blindly. Why does Israel continue to build
these settlements against all reason and logic?  One can support Israel, which I
do, yet not support the construction of settlements in lands that are not part
of it.

Robert J. Carter

I don't support the settlements. But the way to make the situation better is to
negotiate peace. These are one-sided United Nations resolutions.

Paul Barkowitz

What the U.N. resolution does is call Israel out for starting a path of
destruction. The land grabbing is clearly against international law. But the
real question that is being ignored by those who oppose the measure is, where
will the Palestinians go? The only plan that doesn't destroy Israel is a
two-state solution, but settlements make that nearly impossible.

Jim Bielefeldt

TWITTER

We asked our followers whether Israel should be allowed to continue settlement
activities.

There's rampant importation of anti-Jewish hate into Europe from jihadi hot
spots. Where else can Jews escape and feel safe? Israel.

@MediaJouster

They should not. Their illegal settlements are an occupation of Palestinian
land. Expansion will not help achieve a two-state solution.

@ashrenee9109

Of course Israel should be allowed, and they have permission from God to do so.
Israel can rebuild all they want.

@TruthAlive

Definitely not. It's not Israel's land to build on. It's all stolen property.
Israel should withdraw and give the land back.

@CDKIsaksson

Let's ask this: Would Israel allow Palestinians to build on their land? Would
the U.S. allow Mexico to build on our land? No.

@MarketFaceToday

For more, follow @USATOpinion or #tellusatoday.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             194 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Critic's Corner

BYLINE: Robert Bianco, @BiancoRobert, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 262 words


American Masters: Eero Saarinen: The Architect Who Saw the Future PBS, 8 ET/PT
(times may vary)

American Masters ends its 30th season -- a remarkable achievement for a
remarkable series -- with this biography of architect Eero Saarinen. You may not
know the name, but you probably know some of his works, including St. Louis'
Gateway Arch, JFK airport's TWA Flight Center and Washington, D.C.'s Dulles
Airport Terminal.

Frontline: Exodus PBS, 9 ET/PT

Masters is followed by another invaluable program, Frontline. This latest film
uses first-person stories to personalize the refugee crisis facing Europe.

The Kennedy Center Honors CBS, 9 ET/PT

There are seemingly hundreds of award shows on TV these days, but only one
honors all of the arts, is given for a lifetime's worth of great achievements,
and is presented in front of the president of the United States and the first
lady. Hosted by Stephen Colbert, this year's show honors Academy Award-winner Al
Pacino, rock band the Eagles, Argentine pianist Martha Argerich, gospel and
blues singer Mavis Staples and musician James Taylor -- and features appearances
by Garth Brooks, Ringo Starr, Sheryl Crow, Sean Penn, Itzhak Perlman and former
president Bill Clinton, among others. Inevitably, some segments come off better
than others (the Honors still haven't found a way to properly salute actors),
but overall, you're in for a lovely, classy, emotional and sometimes rousing
evening.

Email TV questions to

askbianco@usatoday.com ahead of Robert Bianco's live video chat Tuesday, 2 p.m.
ET/11 a.m. PT, at facebook.com/usatodaylife

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Keo Films

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             195 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Heartbreaking 'A Monster Calls' dials up creature comfort

BYLINE: Brian Truitt

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 494 words


A Monster Calls dials up a nostalgic and superb coming-of-age journey that will
have audiences grabbing all the hankies.

Scottish newcomer Lewis MacDougall stars as a boy under a barrage of stressful
situations -- including having to deal with a cryptic tree creature -- in the
tearjerking drama (***1/2 out of four; rated PG-13; now showing in New York and
Los Angeles, expands nationwide Jan. 6) directed by J.A. Bayona (The
Impossible). The filmmaker pulls noteworthy performances out of Felicity Jones
and Sigourney Weaver in supporting roles, Liam Neeson lends his grumbly vocals
as the wooden monster, and Monster offers a cathartic study in overcoming loss
and traversing the fine line between childhood and adulthood under tragic
circumstances.

An embattled sort,  Conor (MacDougall) can't catch a break in any part of his
life. He's haunted by nightmares, his school life is riddled with bullies, and
at home the kid has to take care of his loving mom, Lizzie (Jones), a
goodhearted soul dying from a terminal illness and unable to fulfill her
parental duties. The situation worsens when Conor's overbearing grandmother
(Weaver) comes to live with them and help her daughter -- Conor feels she's much
more concerned with her antiques than her grandson.

One night while staying up late and drawing, Conor is summoned outside his flat
by the giant yew tree in the nearby cemetery that has inexplicably come alive.
(Think Groot from Guardians of the Galaxy but with a larger vocabulary.)

The monster says  he will tell the boy three stories, and in return, Conor has
to tell his own tale, which is the truth of what's bothering him.

Bayona  uses animation and other techniques for the tree's trio of twisty tales,
which have an adverse effect on Conor's life when they carry over into reality.
The monster itself is a thing of cinematic beauty: Neeson did his own
performance-capture to make the mass of branches and leaves stomp around
dangerously at times yet also connote a nurturing quality when needed.

Monster is akin to '80s family classics that take a child on a quest of identity
such as The NeverEnding Story, though Bayona gives his take a realistic and
imaginative modern touch. Conor conjures his wooden buddy when he has had it
with getting picked on in the cafeteria, and as the story progresses, the boy
has to grow up fast and deal with his mother's mortality.

Jones has a deeply emotional turn as Lizzie, and while Weaver is grating early
on, she and MacDougall's chemistry grows as Conor and his grandmother break
their own walls down. A teenager who had a bit part in last year's Pan,
MacDougall displays the whole spectrum of feelings, from the wonder of seeing a
tree talking with him to utter heartbreak, but never goes too far one way or
another, which helps as the finale veers toward the maudlin.

You'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll cry some more, but A Monster Calls pulls off an
impressive feat creating an intensely moving fairy tale for today.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Travis Topa, Focus Features

DOCUMENT-TYPE: MOVIE REVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             196 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Nunes' relationship helps career;
Being with another fighter has its benefits

BYLINE: Martin Rogers, mjrogers@usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 641 words


The peculiarities of a mixed martial arts fighter's life are complicated and
multifaceted. The stresses of weight cuts and the grueling, nervous months of
preparation for a bout can be difficult for even the most loyal significant
other to understand.

Yet job-related miscommunication in her relationship is not something Amanda
Nunes has to worry about as she prepares to face Ronda Rousey at UFC 207 on
Friday. Nunes' girlfriend, Nina Ansaroff, is going through the same thing.

Ansaroff is also a fighter within the Ultimate Fighting Championship stable, a
strawweight with a 6-5 record who will take to the octagon at a UFC show in
Phoenix just over two weeks after Nunes defends her bantamweight title against
Rousey.

"It helps me to be calm because I know Nina understands," Nunes told USA TODAY
Sports. "She knows everything that goes into being a fighter, so I don't have to
explain why I am doing this or that. Sometimes getting ready to fight is a
difficult time, but she makes it easy for me, and I try to do the same for her."

After Nunes submitted Miesha Tate in the first round of their title bout at UFC
200 in the summer, she wheeled away in delight, leaped to the top of the octagon
fence and kissed Ansaroff delightedly.

Her dominating performance against Tate made her the first openly gay champion
in UFC history, a significant step for an organization where fighter trash talk
has too often included reference to homophobic slurs.

Nunes and Ansaroff have been together for four years, and though they have never
hidden their relationship, neither did they feel the need to announce publicly
that they were gay.

The drama of UFC 200 and Nunes' new position as champion of one of UFC's
highest-profile divisions altered things slightly, but in a positive way.

"It actually taught us something as well," Ansaroff said. "We never thought it
was something that needed to be recognized. When we started getting emails from
people who were having difficulties and struggling with their sexuality, it made
us realize that maybe we should be a little bit stronger about this, to help
these people."

The pair live in Coconut Creek, Fla., and with a healthy payday coming, thanks
to a share of Friday's pay-per-view revenue, have been through a lot together.
When they met, Nunes lived in her local gym and used a bicycle for
transportation, while Ansaroff was trying to rise up through the mixed martial
arts minor leagues.

The two met while training and quickly moved in together, communicating through
Google Translate in the early part of their relationship before Brazilian Nunes'
English improved. Marriage and children -- they plan to adopt, and Ansaroff also
wishes to carry a baby -- appear to be in their future.

"For sure, being in a relationship with someone who understands what is going on
helps my fighting," Nunes said. "But on the other side, because we are fighters
helps to make the relationship stronger. We understand the work that we put in,
and we respect each other. We met through fighting, and it brings us closer. If
I am cutting weight, she helps. This has helped make me champion."

With so much focus on Rousey and her return for the first time since being
knocked out by Holly Holm in November 2015, Nunes' impressive rise and superb
form over the last two years have occasionally been discounted.

The couple are amused by how the UFC hype machine has so intensely focused on
Rousey at the expense of all else, but it suits their low-key lifestyle just
fine.

"Amanda doesn't need that stuff," Ansaroff said. "She has this drive and
confidence that nothing is going to stand in her way. She doesn't need anyone
telling her how good she is. I have seen it grow over time, and she knows she is
where she belongs, right at the top of women's MMA. It is going to take a heck
of a lot to take that away from her, whoever you are."

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Joshua Dahl, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             197 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

The evolution of Jeff Sessions;
AG nominee changed drug policy in response to crack's race disparity

BYLINE: Mary Troyan, @orndorfftroyan, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 1215 words


When it comes to long prison sentences for crack cocaine, attorney general
nominee Jeff Sessions was for them before he was against them.

As a federal prosecutor in southern Alabama in the 1980s and early '90s,
Sessions was one of the most hard-charging soldiers in the war on drugs. He
aggressively pursued dealers and users, big and small, and touted the harsh
sentences as an effective deterrent.

As a Republican senator in the 2000s, he grew critical of a cocaine sentencing
policy that was tougher on crack than powder and the racial imbalance it created
in federal prisons around the country.

The severe punishments for the cheap crystallized cocaine, compared with the
more expensive powdered version, had become enough of a racial blight on the
criminal justice system that even law-and-order conservatives such as Sessions
wanted changes. Sessions had seen firsthand how 5 grams of crack drew a
mandatory five-year sentence, while it took 500 grams of powder to trigger the
same sentence.

He introduced legislation in 2001 to narrow the gap.

"I think we're at a point now where this 100-to-1 disparity that does fall
heavier on the African-American community, simply because that's where crack is
most often used, has got to be fixed," Sessions said during the debate in the
Senate Judiciary Committee.

Sessions hammered out a final deal in the Senate gym with Sen. Dick Durbin,
D-Ill.  An enthusiastic drug war lieutenant acknowledged that prisons were
clogged with low-level offenders, many of them black, who needed treatment, not
decades of incarceration.

Confirmation hearings

As President-elect Donald Trump's nominee for attorney general, Sessions' views
on race and criminal justice are under scrutiny. Allies highlight his work to
reduce the crack/powder disparity as proof of his commitment to racial justice.

"Senator Sessions has been intimately involved in assuring that even as the
department combats the scourge of illegal drugs, the penalties imposed on
defendants do not unfairly impact minority communities," five former U.S.
attorneys general wrote to congressional leaders Dec. 5.

The Senate Judiciary Committee plans to hold a confirmation hearing for
Sessions, starting Jan. 10. This is the same panel that rejected Sessions for a
federal judgeship 30 years ago amid concerns about racial bias.

Well before Sessions was in Washington arguing that the mandatory sentencing
disproportionately affected African Americans, he was in Mobile, Ala.,
prosecuting more crack cases than almost every other district in the country.

In 1992-93, one year before he ran for attorney general of Alabama, only the
District of Columbia had more federal crack convictions per capita than
Sessions' Southern District of Alabama, according to a Mobile Press-Register
report in 1997 based on data from the U.S. Sentencing Commission. From 1992 to
1995, the district had more drug cases per capita than the Miami-based Southern
District of Florida.

"He would say that 'these cases were sent to me and I had to try them,' but
under his tenure, there were probably more people prosecuted than any other U.S.
attorney in the history of the Southern District," said Frederick Richardson,
vice president of the Mobile City Council.

Richardson,  who researched the effects of the drug wars in Mobile, was critical
of the high number of drug conspiracy convictions under Sessions, but he
supported Sessions' role in scaling back the sentences for crack. "He has
changed," Richardson said.

Sessions was appointed U.S. attorney by President Ronald Reagan in 1981 and held
the office until May 1993, when he left to clear the way for President Bill
Clinton to appoint a successor.

Mobile's geography was a key factor in the statistics: A port city with one main
east-west interstate route between Texas and Florida is a prime spot for federal
drug enforcement agencies to camp out. Sessions was also a zealous prosecutor
who pursued even minor drug cases, often working with local law enforcement
along the way.

"It does not hurt to go into a town like Evergreen and take out 25 or 30 crack
peddlers," Sessions told the Press-Register. By doing so, the cases were handled
in federal court, where judges had to follow the mandatory sentencing rules.

In defending his office's focus on drug prosecutions, Sessions said in 1997 that
other U.S. attorneys should follow his example: "If I were (U.S.) attorney
general, the first thing I'd do is see if I couldn't increase prosecutions by
50% with the staff I had."

Racial concerns

After joining the Senate, Sessions acknowledged the harm done by mandatory
federal sentences for possessing even small amounts of crack. "I believe my
district is as tough, as effective, as any prosecuting office in America on
drugs. That was our goal. And we worked it every day," Sessions said in 2006.
"But in my best judgment, there is valid concern about the disparity between
crack and powder, that it implicates racial concerns in America, and it also is
not an effective use of our prison beds and detention facilities," he said in
2006.

One of the people snagged in Sessions' drug dragnet was Stephanie Nodd. She was
a young, first-time offender caught helping people selling crack in Mobile. She
was sentenced in 1990 to 30 years in prison.

"Putting 23-year-old single mothers away for 30 years, I would hope it gnaws at
your conscience and causes you to reconsider," said Kevin Ring, vice president
of Families Against Mandatory Minimums.

Nodd served 21 years. She won early release when the U.S. Sentencing Commission
made the new crack/powder guidelines -- championed by Sessions -- retroactive,
freeing people stuck in prison sentences Congress no longer thought were
warranted.

Ring said a key question is why Sessions agreed to fix the crack/powder
disparity but has resisted other changes to the mandatory sentencing rules,
including those championed by his fellow conservatives in the Senate. "I'm
holding out hope he actually believes prosecutors should exercise individual
discretion," Ring said.

Arthur Madden, a criminal defense attorney in Mobile, said Sessions was not
solely to blame for bringing so many federal drug cases subject to mandatory
minimum sentences. The harsh sentencing policy had bipartisan support when
Congress enacted it, a reaction to the drug epidemic of the 1980s.

"It just didn't work," Madden said. "And I think Jeff learned that. He's not the
only one. It doesn't mean that people who were doing it in real time were bad, I
think they just bought into the program. He wasn't alone."

The Justice Department under President George W. Bush did not support the
bipartisan legislation to reduce the crack/powder sentencing disparity, and the
idea languished for many years on Capitol Hill. When the Fair Sentencing Act
finally became law in 2010, it reduced the disparity from 100:1 to 18:1. It
eliminated the minimum mandatory sentence for simple possession.

As nominee for attorney general, Sessions was asked to submit to the Senate
Judiciary Committee a list of honors and awards he received. His original
questionnaire omitted one. In a supplement to the questionnaire he filed
Wednesday, Sessions listed the Attorney General's Flag Award he received from
Attorney General William Barr in 1992 "for significant achievement in the war on
drugs."

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Dan Anderson, European PressPhoto Agency

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             198 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

ENTERTAINER OF THE YEAR RUNNER-UP: Lin-Manuel Miranda

BYLINE: Kelly Lawler, @klawls, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 288 words


Hamilton was just the beginning.

The smash Broadway musical hit  the Great White Way in 2015, but 2016 was the
year its creator, Lin-Manuel Miranda, became a phenomenon in his own right.

This year alone, Miranda walked away with three Tonys and a Grammy for the
musical. His championing of Alexander Hamilton helped keep the founding father
on the 10-dollar bill. Hamilton's America, a documentary melding the life of
Hamilton with Miranda's journey to create the musical, premiered on PBS in
October.  And though Miranda took his final bow on the Broadway stage in July,
he managed to incorporate music's biggest names into Broadway's biggest hit on
The Hamilton Mixtape, a compilation of covers of the musical's songs by artists
ranging from John Legend to Sia. His fame has now gone beyond Hamilton with his
work on the music and lyrics for Disney's animated Moana, which has made more
than $200 million worldwide.

The composer/lyricist/actor/producer/artist shows no signs of slowing down, with
deals to help bring Mary Poppins back to life in 2018 and produce a film and TV
adaptation of Patrick Rothfuss' fantasy-book trilogy The Kingkiller Chronicle.

If you're worried that Miranda's new success and opportunities will take him
away from the musical that made him a star, don't worry. "Every time I see a
performance, I'd be lying if I said I didn't I get a little jealous about
Hamilton," he told USA TODAY in November. "I don't think that role is done with
me yet. It's a matter of finding the time to jump back in."

Miranda sums up how he became such a force in popular culture quite simply in
his bio on Twitter, where he regularly uplifts and entertains his more than  1
million followers: "Making you something new, always."

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Dan MacMedan, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             199 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

OUR 2016 ENTERTAINER OF THE YEAR: KATE MCKINNON;
She chased ghosts on the big screen and the White House on 'SNL,' and she kept
us laughing the whole way

BYLINE: Andrea Mandell, and Cara Kelly, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 514 words


At the start of 2016, we didn't know how much we'd need Kate McKinnon.

This summer, as the Ghostbusters reboot became the latest big-budget female-led
comedy to be sucked into a misogynistic Twitter vortex, it was McKinnon's comic
stylings that answered our call. What the movie lacked in critical love was made
up for in her memorable take on Holtzmann, a profoundly and charmingly weird
engineering whiz (whose science vibes gave zero cares about that nearby hottie
Chris Hemsworth).

Her film career has since taken off. She's in theaters now, stealing scenes in
the ensemble comedy Office Christmas Party, playing it straight as the company's
uniquely helpful HR director. And it was just announced McKinnon is set to star
in her own film as a scarily magical school cafeteria worker in The Lunch Witch.

But it was this fall on Saturday Night Live that she truly harnessed her
talents. She  had long played Hillary Clinton on the show, but as Election Day
neared,  she translated the  candidate with new fervor,  earning the icon status
last awarded to Tina Fey as Sarah Palin in 2008. Week after week, dressed in an
array of pantsuits, McKinnon satirized the  campaign's political jousting, often
saying what the real Clinton couldn't.

"I'm better than ever. Let's do this," she said in the season opener, ducking
and rolling before taking a fighter's stance. It  was a play on Clinton's bout
of pneumonia, though it could just as easily have applied to McKinnon's hand in
returning SNL to must-watch status.

After the second debate, she mocked Trump's attempts to divert attention by
giving front-row seats to Bill Clinton accusers.

"Wait, I'm sorry who's here? Mistresses? Bill, how could you? How could I go on
with the debate? ... Oh, Donald, no!" she said sarcastically. "Get real. I'm
made of steel. This is nothing. Hi girls!"

Alec Baldwin, like the politician he played, may have dominated headlines, but
McKinnon, who won an Emmy in September for her work,  anchored the new wave of
SNL. In the waning days of the campaign, McKinnon bounced seamlessly from the
role of Clinton to Kellyanne Conway, Trump's campaign manager and frequent
surrogate on news talk shows.  She delivered one of the best sketches of the
year when she brought an exhausted Conway to life, imagining the spokeswoman's
hard-won day off, Ferris Bueller-style, repeatedly cut short by calls to appear
on CNN to explain Trump's never-ending tweets.

And McKinnon's still at it, this past weekend morphing from Conway  prepping
Trump for office to Clinton, in a pointed Love Actually-themed sketch, making
her last-gasp case on a voting member of the Electoral College's doorstep.

Yet no SNL appearance was more effective than  on Nov. 12, when McKinnon
delivered one heck of an electoral finale. Sitting at a piano in a white
pantsuit, she  sang Leonard Cohen's Hallelujah, a moving tribute to those who
had hoped for a first female president, and to Cohen, who had died just days
before.

No jokes. No cue cards. Just one woman, offering catharsis to a divided nation.

This year, we tip our hat to Kate McKinnon.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo VALERIE MACON, AFP/Getty Images
inset: Hopper Stone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             200 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Injuries put crimp in Seahawks' playoff potential

BYLINE: Lorenzo Reyes, @LorenzoGReyes, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 888 words


With one week left and two spots remaining in the playoff field, much of the
NFL's regular season has been decided. But the penultimate week of action
produced plenty of results that should get a closer inspection.

Here are five overreactions we are pushing back on in Week 16:

Are the Seattle Seahawks in trouble?

The Seahawks have lost three of their last five games, the latest Saturday's
34-31 loss to the 6-8-1 Arizona Cardinals.

And, all of a sudden, the Seahawks (9-5-1) don't look like the legitimate Super
Bowl contender that beat the New England Patriots in Week 10.

As the last month has shown, Seattle has flaws.

Its running game hasn't been consistent since Marshawn Lynch retired. Its
offensive line hasn't opened enough running lanes. It also hasn't given
quarterback Russell Wilson the protection he normally gets. Seattle is tied for
22nd in the league in rushing yards (100.3 per game) and has allowed 40 sacks,
tied for fifth most.

But more than anything, injuries are taking their toll.

It has been clear in the two weeks since star safety Earl Thomas broke his leg
that the defense hasn't been the same. Second-year wide receiver Tyler Lockett,
a weapon with the potential to score on any given play, suffered a season-ending
leg injury against the Cardinals. And that doesn't even factor in the loss of
rookie running back C.J. Prosise, who was emerging as a game-changing threat
before he suffered a shoulder injury in Week11.

Because of their experience, the Seahawks have the potential to go on a run once
the postseason starts.

There's plenty of evidence over the last month, however, that injuries might
prevent that from happening.

The Oakland Raiders are doomed with Derek Carr sidelined

There's never a good time for a team's budding star quarterback to go down with
a broken leg. But what happened to the Raiders on Saturday was cruel.

One week after helping Oakland secure its first trip to the playoffs since 2002,
Carr suffered a broken fibula in a 33-25 victory against the Indianapolis Colts.
The injury will require surgery and end his season.

So  Oakland turns to Matt McGloin, whom the team re-signed in the offseason to a
one-year, $2.5 million contract.

There's no denying that the Raiders are a weaker team with McGloin under center.

Carr had been posting an MVP-caliber campaign before his injury, throwing for
3,933 yards and 28 touchdowns against six interceptions on a 63.7% completion
rate.

But there's also no denying that the Raiders have a few pieces working in their
favor.

They have one of the NFL's most imposing and dominating offensive lines. Behind
that group, they have a capable rushing attack led by backs Latavius Murray,
Jalen Richard and DeAndre Washington.

And in Khalil Mack and Bruce Irvin, the Raiders have a pass rush that can
disrupt opposing offenses.

That alone should be enough to win one playoff game. An extended run is more
unlikely, but it's too early to tell whether McGloin can keep the Raiders in
contention.

Tom Savage is the future  in Houston

The Houston Texans clinched the AFC South with a 12-10 victory against the
Cincinnati Bengals on Saturday night. It was their second consecutive win with
former backup quarterback Tom Savage taking the spotlight.

In 11/2 games, Savage has completed 63.1% of his passes for 436yards and no
touchdowns with no interceptions.

Despite the positive momentum for the Texans, it's too early to anoint Savage as
the future.

Here's all we can say with certainty: At this point, Savage is better at running
coach Bill O'Brien's offense than Brock Osweiler. That's about it.

The sample size has been too small for the Texans to rush and make a significant
financial commitment to Savage. That would be making the same error twice.

The Texans signed Osweiler to a four-year, $72million contract in the offseason
despite having never met with him and with limited film of him to review.

The deal guarantees Osweiler $37million in the first two seasons. That means he
still has one offseason and the 2017 regular season to reclaim the starting job
and prove he was worth the contract. If he can't do that, Houston almost
certainly will cut its losses at the end of next season.

And until Savage shows that he can sustain success over an extended period, he,
too, should be fighting for playing time.

Andy Reid's trick play  was bush league

The reaction to Kansas City Chiefs defensive tackle Dontari Poe throwing a
touchdown pass was instant.

What exactly were coach Andy Reid and offensive coordinator Brad Childress
thinking when they called for a trick-play, leaping TD toss by 346-pound Poe
with the Chiefs securely winning Sunday night's game against the Denver Broncos
27-10 with 1:55 left in the fourth quarter?

Many thought it was in poor taste. And while it certainly wasn't necessary, the
Broncos didn't take offense, so neither should you.

The curious thing is this: The play worked. It duped an aggressive and talented
defense run by very capable Wade Phillips.

Kansas City is preparing to go on a playoff run, where it looks like one of the
top contenders in the AFC. It will need its best effort to challenge the
Patriots and the Pittsburgh Steelers.

The Chiefs would've been better served saving Poe's leaping TD pass for a tight
game in January rather than wasting it in garbage time of a regular-season game
that had already been decided.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             201 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

17-hour flight among many new routes

BYLINE: Ben Mutzabaugh, @todayinthesky, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 767 words


Airlines are constantly tweaking their schedules, trying to find profitable new
routes or pulling the plug on ones underperform.

Here's a look at some of the most interesting changes from the past month.

direct flight from Europe to Australia -- in 17 hours

Qantas says it will launch non-stop service between Australia and Europe with a
route that would immediately become one of the world's longest regularly
scheduled passenger flights.

Qantas revealed plans for the route Dec. 11, saying it would start flying
non-stop between Perth and London Heathrow in March 2018. The carrier will use
its new long-range Boeing 787-9 Dreamliners to fly the route, which Qantas says
will be "the first regular passenger service to directly link Australia with
Europe."

Qantas touts the planned 17-hour, 9,010-mile route as one that will become the
world's third-longest. Currently, Emirates' 8,819-mile flight between Dubai and
Auckland, New Zealand, is the world's longest, and Qantas' 8,576-mile
Dallas/Fort Worth-Sydney route comes in at No. 2, according to data provided to
USA TODAY by airline data provider OAG. Both those routes will be overtaken in
early 2017 once Qatar Airways launches its 9,030-mile non-stop route between
Auckland and its hub in Doha.

And Air India has emerged as a contender for the world's longest flight after it
shifted the routing of its Delhi-San Francisco route this past fall. Instead of
flying the shortest distance between the cities via a polar route, the airline
now routes its Delhi-to-San Francisco route over the Pacific, The Times of India
reports. Despite the longer distance -- about 9,400 miles  -- the tailwinds
common on that particular route actually help the airline save fuel.

Qantas' Perth-London service  would become the world's longest Dreamliner route,
based on schedules as of this month. Currently, United Airlines holds that
distinction for its service between San Francisco and Singapore.

Alaska Airlines/Virgin America unveil  S.F. routes

Alaska Airlines wasted little time announcing new routes as part of its merger
with Virgin America.

Alaska Airlines revealed plans for three new routes from Virgin America's San
Francisco hub, announcing them on the same day it officially closed on its
acquisition of the California-based carrier. The routes to Minneapolis/St. Paul,
Orlando and Orange County, Calif., will launch this summer and will be flown on
planes under both the Alaska Airlines and Virgin America brands.

Alaska Air's regional affiliate SkyWest will fly the Orange County and
Minneapolis/St. Paul routes on its 76-seat Embraer E175 jets. The Orange County
service begins June 15 with two daily round-trip flights, increasing to four
daily round-trip flights July 18. Alaska Air's twice-daily San
Francisco-Minneapolis/St. Paul service starts July 18.

Virgin America will operate the Orlando route starting June14, with one daily
round-trip flight on its 146-seat mood-lit Airbus A320 aircraft. Once the new
routes start, Alaska Air says it and Virgin America will be flying to 20 of the
25 most-popular  destinations from San Francisco.

Hola, Havana!

Seven U.S. airlines are  flying to Cuba after Southwest began service to Havana
this month. Six  carriers -- American, Delta, Frontier, JetBlue, Spirit and
United -- already had launched service to Havana, which just opened  to U.S.
airlines this year amid thawing relations between the U.S. and Cuba. Alaska
Airlines will become the eighth U.S. carrier to begin service Jan. 5 when it
launches service from Los Angeles.

Air Canada expands  U.S. route map

Air Canada will add three U.S. cities to its route map next year, part of a
five-route expansion the carrier announced this month.

In May, Air Canada will add service from its Toronto hub to Memphis, San Antonio
and Savannah, Ga., three are cities the airline does not currently serve.

Additionally, Air Canada will launch service between Montreal and Dallas/Fort
Worth and between Vancouver and Denver. Those routes also start in May. A sixth
route -- Vancouver-Phoenix - will be converted from seasonal service into
year-round service.

JetBlue breaks out  its Bermuda shorts

JetBlue is beefing up its service to Bermuda, adding more capacity to the island
from both New York and Boston. From its hub at New York JFK, JetBlue will add a
second daily round-trip flight. The seasonal second flight will start May 18 and
will run until late October, when JetBlue returns to once-daily service on the
route.

Also on May 18, JetBlue will begin flying year-round to Bermuda from  Boston.
Previously, it had operated the route only during its summer schedule.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             202 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Cavs' Christmas rally stokes hottest rivalry

BYLINE: AJ Neuharth-Keusch, @tweetAJNK, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 554 words


There was no air of satisfaction in the Cleveland Cavaliers locker room after
the defending champs overcame a 14-point fourth-quarter deficit to notch their
fourth consecutive win against the Golden State Warriors.

Nor was there talk of a Finals three-quel that would be the first in NBA
history.

The down-to-the-wire victory was nothing short of a Christmas Day miracle to the
20,562 fans at Quicken Loans Arena. But to the Cavs, it was just another tally
in the win column.

It was another step forward in the LeBron James-led journey that reached
uncharted territory 189 days earlier when he helped end a city's 52-year title
drought.

"It's Dec. 25," said guard Kyrie Irving, who hit the game-winning shot. "We've
got a ways before we even start considering the carryover or anything else like
that. It's just a Christmas Day game, another classic with a great team. It's
exciting. It's just all respect when we go out there and play. Just high-level
players making high-level plays."

For fans, it was another must-see heavyweight bout. Another chapter in what
quickly has become the league's fiercest rivalry.

It was a not-so-subtle reminder that anything is possible when these two teams
play, and anything less than a third Warriors-Cavaliers Finals would be a
letdown.

"We know that we've played them the last two Finals, but it's not really so
telling for what the future's gonna hold," said forward Kevin Love, who's
playing his best basketball since being traded to the Cavs in the summer of
2014. "Both teams are gonna get a lot better. The rest of the league's gonna get
a lot better."

And for the Warriors, it was a realization that no matter how super the team, no
lead is safe, especially after a slew of late-game turnovers (19 in total) and
questionable calls.

The loss confirmed that, to close out the games that matter most, like, say,
Christmas Day in Cleveland, the NBA's golden boys have a lot of work to do.

"Oh, we're mad, man," said Warriors guard Klay Thompson, whose would-be
game-clinching three-pointer with 13 seconds left came after the shot clock
expired. "The way we lost that game, we gave them a gift, shooting ourselves in
the foot. We're up 13 in the fourth quarter, and we just have to be solid and
not turn the ball over, help each other on defense and win the game. Instead
we're throwing the ball all over the court, leaving open shooters and just not
playing our brand of ball."

Warriors forward Kevin Durant, who finished with a game-high 36 points and 15
rebounds, said his team should have been able to close it out.

"We had that game in our hands," he said. "But nobody's sobbing in the locker
room. Move on."

Despite the loss, the Warriors sit in first place in the Western Conference with
an NBA-best 27-5 record, boast the NBA's second-best offensive and defensive
ratings -- behind the Toronto Raptors and Memphis Grizzlies, respectively -- and
haven't fully gelled since Durant's addition and the departure of key guys such
as Andrew Bogut, Marreese Speights and Harrison Barnes.

The Cavaliers have the all-important psychological advantage for now, but as we
see so often in the wild world of basketball, it's all subject to change --
change that could certainly happen by the time the two teams meet again Jan.16
in Oakland in their final matchup of the regular season.

Until June, that is.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Brian Spurlock, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             203 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Year in film: Highs, lows, lessons;
They say hindsight is 20/20, and looking back on the year that was has surely
served up some lessons in Hollywood. USA TODAY's looks at seven standout trends
from the film world in 2016.

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 587 words


Soul-crushing sequels

Hollywood went back to the well, again, again and again. The list of failed
sequels that flopped stateside in 2016 is long, but it seems fair to start with
The Huntsman: Winter's War, the misguided attempt to follow 2012's Snow White
and the Huntsman.  There was the  summer bomb Independence Day: Resurgence,
which subbed in Liam Hemsworth for Will Smith, to dismal results, and  Johnny
Depp's Alice Through the Looking Glass.  This year also brought the box office
disaster Allegiant, the sycophantic Zoolander 2 and the retread London Has
Fallen.

Thoughtful prequels

Here's to J.K. Rowling, who set sail  as a screenwriter thanks to her  Harry
Potter spinoff, Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them. We're counting creative
origin stories here, too, from Ryan Reynolds' Deadpool to Benedict Cumberbatch's
Doctor Strange. Even Rogue One: A Star Wars Story  overcame pre-release
skepticism and delivered an awe-inspiring spectacle.

Diverse casting

After two frustrating years of #OscarsSoWhite, diverse fare, though still vastly
underserved,  made waves in 2016. Among the films: the Asian-inspired animated
hit Kubo and the Two Strings; the Denzel Washington-directed Fences; the Indian
adoption tale Lion; Loving, an intimate portrait of the interracial Virginia
couple whose marriage changed the Supreme Court; Morris from America, an indie
about a black father trying to raise his son abroad;  Birth of a Nation,  the
story of slave-turned-rebel Nat Turner; and Moonlight,  the tale of a  gay black
boy growing up in Miami.

Superhero sightings

All we're going to say here is Captain America: Civil War rocked, Batman v
Superman was a depressing disaster and Suicide Squad failed to live up the hype
it had built for more than a year. Let's hope Justice League and Ben Affleck's
Batman standalone film took notes.

Talking animals

Let's consider just how well talking animals did at the cineplex this year:
Zootopia ($341 million), Finding Dory ($486 million), Secret Life of Pets ($368
million), Angry Birds Movie ($107 million). So here's to well-executed righteous
bunnies, forgetful fish, fluffy friends and disturbed birds.

Explosive documentaries

Entertainment was rocked by the return of  O.J. Simpson in 2016, and those who
put in the time for ESPN's five-part documentary series O.J. Made in America
were duly rewarded with the most analytical look yet at the man behind the bars.
Then there was Weiner, the political documentary about Anthony Weiner,  whose
scandals would affect  Hillary Clinton's candidacy and shame his wife, Huma
Abedin. Meanwhile, Ava Duvernay somehow had time to make  13th, an
uncompromising look at the mass incarceration of black men in the USA.

Music-packed movies

With the election hanging over the populace, this was the year to belt it out.
We began the year with movies like Sing Street, a comedy about an  Irish boy who
desperately wants to impress in a rock band, then moved on to the box office
blockbuster The Jungle Book, the hilarious pop culture-skewering comedy Popstar:
Never Stop Never Stopping and Meryl Streep purposefully hitting all the wrong
notes in Florence Foster Jenkins. The year closed with the coarse animated
comedy Sausage Party; a new tough Disney heroine in Moana singing lyrics by
Lin-Manuel Miranda; relatable animals belting out top 40 hits American
Idol-style in Sing; and the tour de force La La Land, which cast Ryan Gosling
and Emma Stone as young dreamers dancing and singing around Tinseltown. Not a
bad year for musical fare, indeed.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo David Bornfriend, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             204 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

TV STAR OF THE YEAR: Sterling K. Brown

BYLINE: Bill Keveney, @billkev, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 231 words


There were bigger stars in The People v. O.J. Simpson: American Crime Story, but
none shone brighter than Sterling K. Brown, who embodied the nobility, pain and
conflict of Simpson prosecutor Chris Darden.

The St. Louis native, 40,  had achieved success as a working actor (Army Wives),
but FX's O.J. was a coming-out party.

His scenes with Sarah Paulson's Marcia Clark displayed a vulnerability and
compassion as the two prosecutors deal with pressure and loss. Those with
Simpson  attorney Johnnie Cochran (Courtney B. Vance) show a searing defiance in
the face of condescension. All three won Emmys.

O.J. by itself would mean a huge year for most actors, but Brown then moved on
to broadcast TV's buzziest fall hit, NBC's This Is Us, a  family drama that has
drawn critical praise and high ratings. He plays Randall, a  business executive
and family man who is emotionally torn after finding his birth father,  who is
dying of cancer.

This month, Brown snagged Screen Actors Guild nominations for both those  roles.

He also appeared on the big screen  in Whiskey Tango Foxtrot and filmed
Marshall, due in 2017, which focuses on  Thurgood Marshall's  legal work before
he became a Supreme Court justice.

"To have come from O.J. to this is extraordinary," Brown told USA TODAY. "I feel
like recently there's just been an abundance of blessings that have been coming
my way. I hope it continues."

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Ron Batzdorff, NBC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             205 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 27, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Streaming highlights in January;
'Path,' 'Pope' and 'Unfortunate Events' top the major streaming and cable
on-demand services:

BYLINE: Jayme Deerwester, @jaymedeerwester, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 457 words


Jan. 5

Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee (Crackle). Christoph Waltz, Cedric the
Entertainer, Kristen Wiig and Lewis Black will all ride shotgun in Season 9 of
Jerry Seinfeld's online ode to classic cars and caffeine.

Jan. 6

One Day at a Time (Netflix). The 1970s single-mom sitcom gets a demographic
update in this reboot, which stars Justina Machado (Queen of the South, Six Feet
Under) as a newly separated ex-military Cuban-American mom with two teens. And
yes, of course, there's a Schneider (Todd Grinnell, Grace and Frankie). Whether
his massive keychain made it into the new show remains to be seen.

Jan. 13

A Series of Unfortunate Events (Netflix). Neil Patrick Harris put in
considerable time in the makeup chair to play Count Olaf, the greedy villain out
to steal the inheritance of the Baudelaire children in this eight-episode
adaptation of the children's book series by Lemony Snicket. We're not sure what
Barney Stinson would think of his new look, though.

Sneaky Pete (Amazon). Remember Sommersby, that 1993 movie where Richard Gere
plays a Civil War veteran who pretends to be a fallen comrade and goes home to
that man's family? This is kind of like that, only with Giovanni Ribisi as a con
man assuming the identity of his former cellmate.

Jan. 15

The Young Pope (HBO Now, HBO Go, Amazon with add-on subscription). In this
miniseries, New York archbishop Lenny Belrado (Jude Law) learns to navigate the
Vatican power structure after being elected the first American-born pontiff.

Jan. 17

The Girl on the Train (OnDemand). Emily Blunt earned a Screen Actors Guild
nomination for her role as Rachel, a lonely, alcoholic divorcée who becomes
mixed up in the investigation of her ex-husband's missing neighbor in this
adaptation of Paula Hawkins' best-seller.

Jan. 25

The Path (Hulu).  As Season 2 begins, apostate Eddie (Aaron Paul) tries to build
a life for himself outside the Meyerist Movement cult while  meeting with his
wife (Michelle Monaghan) and children in secret.

Jan. 27

Z: The Beginning of Everything (Amazon). Based on Z: A Novel of Zelda
Fitzgerald, this period drama examines the writer's life, starting with her
single days and continuing through her relationship and  marriage to  literary
icon F. Scott Fitzgerald (David Hoflin).

Jan. 30

Agatha Christie's Witness for the Prosecution (Acorn). A murder suspect's wife
(Andrea Riseborough) agrees to testify for the prosecution in the murder of a
wealthy older woman (Sex and the City's Kim Cattrall) as part of a plan to
exonerate him.

Jan. 31

Queen of Katwe (OnDemand). After learning chess from a missionary (David
Oyelowo), Phiona (Madina Nalwanga) uses the game to see the world outside  her
native Uganda and help her widowed mother (Lupita Nyong'o) and sisters escape
poverty.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Crackle

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             206 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Conditions can be difficult to study

BYLINE: Edward R.B. McCabe

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 377 words


The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel investigation  reinforces the need for all states
to use the best and latest science in their newborn screening programs.

In recent decades, state newborn screening programs have evolved rapidly. Today,
most states test all newborns for more than 30 conditions that pose a serious
threat to infants' lives or health. Most of those conditions are exceedingly
rare, which means they are difficult to study. With only a handful of cases of
each condition identified annually, it can take years to develop even a basic
understanding of a disorder.

Current challenges around diagnosing these rare disorders reflect a maturing
system. When testing for a condition, the state must set a "cutoff" level for
determining when a child is most likely to have the disorder. If the cutoff is
too generous, many healthy children receive extra testing. If the level is too
low, a sick child is missed. Researchers and lab experts are continually working
to strike the right balance, but often it's like trying to say exactly where a
rainbow turns from one color to the next.

As our understanding of each disorder has improved, so has the ability to set
appropriate cutoffs. Much more work remains to be done, however. The greatest
challenges today are not scientific, but practical. State laboratories need the
funding and resources to keep up with best practices and keep their systems and
equipment up to date. More research funding is needed to collect the data to
refine these cutoffs and to understand the interplay of genetic and
environmental factors in determining which children will get sick.

For decades, March of Dimes has lobbied in every state to ensure that newborn
screening programs have the resources needed to identify and treat infants
before they become catastrophically ill. Some states have responded more quickly
than others. Many newborn screening programs consist of only a few staff. Adding
tests, updating equipment and training personnel can be expensive. When state
budgets are tight, newborn screening programs can get shortchanged.

It is vital that citizens and policymakers understand the importance of robust
support for newborn screening programs.

Dr. Edward R.B. McCabe is chief medical officer for the March of Dimes.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             207 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Finding the good in my dad's final days

BYLINE: Glenn Harlan Reynolds

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 509 words


My fellow Knoxvillian Alex Haley once said, "Find the good and praise it."
That's probably not a formula for successful punditry these days, but there's
good to be found even when things are awful. And that's something I've recently
experienced.

The awful part is that my dad, Charles Harlan Reynolds, is dying. At 78, things
are just falling apart. He's got end-stage heart failure and advanced
Alzheimer's. His kidneys are no prize, either. Last week he had a health crisis,
and as I write this he's at the University of Tennessee Medical Center, and he
won't be going home from there. If he recovers enough to get out, he'll probably
be moving to a hospice.

He's physically very weak, and his memory is gone. Even a few months ago, he
could tell stories about being bitten by a rattlesnake when he was a kid, or
about being at Selma with Martin Luther King, in great (and consistent) detail.
Now he barely remembers that they happened. Until a few years ago he was a
dynamic, even charismatic, figure: A preacher, a protester, a professor of great
renown. Now, as happens to all of us eventually, those qualities have been left
behind, devoured by disease and age.

That's the awful part, and it's awful enough. But there's good, too. I've had
some awful experiences with hospitals, with various sick family members. Yet our
experience this time has been anything but awful.

This week, as we met with the team of doctors to talk about my dad's care, my
brother noted that every nurse, nursing aide, doctor, orderly, or medical
technologist we've dealt with there has been absolutely terrific: kind,
competent, considerate and cheerful. In a medical setting, we're willing to
settle for "competent." But kind, considerate and cheerful go a long way,
especially when people are exhausted, worried and sad.

I dreaded meeting the palliative care team because, to me, that symbolized
giving up. But no sooner did they get involved than my dad's medications were
rejiggered, and for the first time he could sleep through the night.  Their
competence, and obvious humanity, were a real comfort.

And that goes double for my family. Some families turn on each other under the
strain. My family has done the opposite. My youngest brother, who dad has been
living with, has done a heroic job of looking after him. My other siblings
rallied around, my daughter -- home from graduate school -- took turns sitting
with him in the hospital, and even my former stepmother ("the world's best
ex-wife," as my brother dubbed her) went above and beyond in helping out. My
dad's illness has resulted in us spending more time together than usual, which
is also something good amid the awfulness.

We'll soon be bringing down the curtain on 2016, a year that has contained its
share of awfulness for many. But there was also much good in 2016.

As we enter 2017, let us look for the good, and try -- as much as we can, in our
imperfect human way -- to be the good as well.

Glenn Harlan Reynolds, a University of Tennessee law professor,  is a member of
USA TODAY's Board of Contributors.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             208 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

If you're a procrastinator, Amazon's got your back;
E-retailer makes a bid for those who love to holiday shop at the last minute

BYLINE: Eli Blumenthal, @eliblumenthal, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 423 words


Last minute shoppers, stay home.

That's the message from Amazon, which is pushing its Prime Now rush delivery
service as a way to lure shoppers who normally would head to physical stores in
the last days or hours before Christmas, which coincides with the start of
Hanukkah this weekend.

The service, part of the company's $99 per year Prime offering, offers
guaranteed delivery on items within two hours. This year, Amazon is extending
that window to a time most should be at home counting their sugar plums. Prime
Now customers in 30 U.S. cities can procrastinate until 9:45 p.m. local time
Saturday for delivery by midnight Christmas Day.

Traditional brick-and-mortar retailers such as Best Buy and Staples have  with
their own same-day delivery options, with the advantage of physical stores
throughout the U.S.

"It puts a little more stress on traditional brick-and-mortar stores, local and
the big-box mass retailers," says MaryAnn Monforte, professor of accounting
practice at Syracuse University's Whitman School of Management. "Because when
you're competing with a service like Amazon, you need to be able to meet or beat
their hours."

With no stores of its own, Amazon's approach is to create hubs in Prime Now
cities. These look more like warehouses and are in places you wouldn't expect.
The Manhattan hub, for example, is a 40,000-square-foot floor of an office
building on 34th Street in midtown, down the block from Macy's.

The service is one way Amazon is trying to speed up the shopping experience.
Last week the company announced it had completed its first consumer delivery by
drone. Earlier this month, it revealed plans for a radical new grocery store
where  no lines or checkout process are required.

Prime Now has spread to more than 40 cities around the world since its launch in
New York  two years ago and added 10 in the U.S. in the last year.  Stephanie
Landry, vice president of the Prime Now division, says she "doesn't see growth
stopping."

Amazon says it keeps roughly 25,000 items in the New York hub, ranging from
fruits and vegetables to canned goods, diapers, Amazon tablets and video game
consoles. Some items, such as the Amazon Echo smart speaker and Nintendo's NES
Classic video game system, currently hard to find, can be found on Prime Now.

Consumers have shown if retailers let them shop at the last minute, they will.

"In many years the biggest shopping day is not Black Friday, it's the day before
Christmas," says Avi Greengart, research director for consumer platforms and
devices at Current Analysis.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             209 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Violence on TV may have finally gone too far

BYLINE: Kelly Lawler, @klawls, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 930 words


It was just another season of The Walking Dead. Sort of.

After a summer of waiting to find out who villain Negan (Jeffrey Dean Morgan)
had killed in the Season 6 finale, fans discovered that two of their favorite
characters had met their ends in the fall premiere of AMC's hit. And the
audience saw every inch of their heads being bashed in by Negan and his barbed
wire-covered baseball bat.

Even for the often-violent series,  the image of Glenn (Steven Yeun) with half
his skull gone and his eye dangling from its socket was shocking. The episode
and several  that followed caused an outcry among many fans on social media.
Some  claimed they'd never watch the show again. Critics lambasted the gore.

Dead isn't the only show on TV in 2016 that pushed the boundaries, but the
now-infamous head-bashing episode brought the conversation about violence on
television back to the forefront of pop culture. Popular shows such as  HBO's
Game of Thrones and Westworld, and FX's American Horror Story have violence as a
part of their DNA. Streaming services,  premium  and basic-cable networks aren't
bound by FCC regulations for appropriate content. But are viewers still
interested in seeing blood and entrails on their screens?

The Walking Dead premiere was enough to turn Donna Dickens, writer for Uproxx,
off the show for good. "Human interaction took a back seat to shock value and
cheap 'tune in next week' tricks," she says of the episode.

"I have no problem with violence on television, in general, but it has to make
sense within the story," she says. " 'Gore porn' for the sake of making the
audience nauseated is just not what I'm looking for in my escapism."

Violence in entertainment has been a recurring theme,  from the cartoon variety
that almost gave South Park: Bigger, Longer and Uncut  an NC-17  in 1999 to the
beheadings and sexual violence on Thrones. Yet for all the uproar certain scenes
can cause, we still see more violence on our screens. In the Dec. 11 finale,
just seven episodes after the infamous Negan scene, The Walking Dead finished
the first half of its season with a close-up of a disembowelment.

"When lines are pushed, we feel like we're suddenly somewhere new, but we're not
really somewhere new," says Dave Gonzales, critic and host of pop-culture
podcast Fighting in the War Room. "This is the same discussion about violence in
media that South Park (was) about, and it comes up over and over again. What we
might be doing more often in the past year or so is committing realistic
violence against characters that we actually like."

On these shows the violence is often "not  as explicit as a lot of slasher films
have been," says  Robert Thompson, a professor of pop culture at Syracuse
University. But when it's "part of a well-written, serialized drama ... that's
what I think makes it so pornographic."

In an increasingly fragmented  TV landscape, violence is, at times, a tool more
shows use to lure  audiences

"Networks and creators are constantly looking at how their audiences react to
major displays of violence and seeing where they can go next to shock them,"
notes Jill Pantozzi of pop culture news and criticism site, TheNerdyBird.com,
citing Thrones, FX's Sons of Anarchy and even Hannibal, which aired on NBC. "I
think the boundaries are being pushed more and more to both what people will
accept and what they now expect from shows."

However graphic this violence is getting, it doesn't seem to be chasing
advertisers away from  shows like The Walking Dead.

Despite a recent ratings dip, Walking Dead is TV's most popular shows among
young adults, and thus one of the most reliable for advertisers.  So the
much-hyped return was one of  "the Super Bowl(s) of the entertainment
programming world," says Lisa Herdman, senior VP  for RPA,  a Los Angeles ad
agency.

She says  advertisers and viewers should have been "100% forewarned what (an)
episode was going to be about," she adds, noting that advertisers wouldn't
sponsor content they weren't comfortable with. "I don't think (the violence)
goes too far for those who know what they're going to see."

But shows can cross lines, even for fans inured to violence.

"I think there comes a breaking point for some viewers with various aspects of
their favorite shows, whether that be deaths on Grey's Anatomy, sexual violence
on Game of Thrones, or gore and violence on The Walking Dead," says Pantozzi.

Even Morgan was wary of Negan's skull-bashing.  "I don't know if you need to see
the closeup gore of it all," he says. "It's a lot."

The way  sexual violence is portrayed is being questioned even by those within
the industry. In  a recent Variety story, The Exorcist producer Jeremy Slater
calls  it "a plague on the industry."

The problem with the current proliferation of violence on TV may not be in
quantity, but in the quality. Whether a result of the controversial premiere or
not, The Walking Dead has been losing viewers all season, though still
outperforming its competition.

While trying to top themselves,  "they might forget that shock doesn't always
equal quality storytelling, and that's of the utmost importance to fans, not how
much blood they'll see in a particular episode," says Pantozzi.

"I'm on the side of realistic violence instead of exaggerated violence. Showing
that violence has consequence is important, adds Gonzales. "I'm not sure if the
overall 'rise' in violence is a real rise or just a proliferation of writers and
directors being too lazy to know how to use violence," other than for cheap
thrills.

"I'm tending to lean towards the latter."

Contributing: Bill Keveney

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Gene Page, AMC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             210 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Economy grew healthy 3.5% in third quarter;
Job growth, cheap gasoline help pace largest gain in 2 years

BYLINE: Paul Davidson, @Pdavidsonusat, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 343 words


The economy grew faster than previously thought in the third quarter on stronger
consumer spending, commercial construction and state and local outlays.

The nation's gross domestic product -- the value of all goods and services
produced  -- increased at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 3.5%, up from the
3.2% previously estimated, the Commerce Department said Thursday. That's the
largest gain in two years. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast a
revision to 3.3% growth.

The healthy expansion last quarter followed a sluggish nine months in which the
economy grew at about a 1% rate amid feeble business investment -- half the
roughly 2% pace that has characterized most of the seven-year-old economic
recovery.

Consumer spending, which makes up about 70% of economic activity, increased 3%
last quarter, a bit more than the previous 2.8% estimate. Solid job and income
growth, cheap gasoline and reduced debt have left Americans with more money in
their pockets.

And business investment rose 1.4%, stronger than the 0.1% previously believed.
Commercial construction surged 12% while equipment spending fell 4.5%. Capital
spending has been weak for nearly two years because of a listless global economy
and strong dollar that have hurt exports, as well as the oil sector downturn.
But oil prices have risen in recent months, helping spur a partial rebound, and
the greenback leveled off until a recent rally. Partly as a result, exports rose
10% while imports increased just 2.2%, narrowing the nation's trade gap.

Meanwhile, state and local spending dipped 0.2%, less sharply than the last 1.1%
estimate. Residential investment also declined a bit less dramatically than
believed, 4.1%.

This was the third and final estimate of economic growth in the third quarter.
Many economists expect growth to slow to less than 2% in the current quarter as
a result of a pullback in consumer spending and weaker exports before picking up
next year, in part because of President-elect Donald Trump's proposed tax cuts
and plans to boost spending on infrastructure.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             211 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Newborn quintuplets get first Santa visit

BYLINE: Kaila White, @KailaWhite, The Arizona Republic

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 312 words


As Santa left the room, Clara began crying under her pink blanket, her wails
audible even through the incubator. Almost instantly, her mother, Margaret,
quickly sanitized her hands and slipped them in to comfort her.

Clara's four siblings laid in their incubators next to her in a private room in
the nursery intensive care unit, each wrapped in a different-colored blanket
under a stocking bearing their name.

The five babies are the Baudinet quintuplets, and for their parents and the
hospital, they are a Christmas miracle.

Margaret and Michael Baudinet struggled for years to conceive and experienced
two miscarriages before the quints came along.

After moving across the country from their home in Charlottesville, Va. to work
with Dignity Health St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center in Phoenix, they
welcomed Ava, Clara, Camille, Luke and Isabelle into the world Dec. 4.

It was the first time in St. Joseph's 121-year history that staff have delivered
quintuplets. To celebrate their remarkable arrival, the hospital organized a
special visit from Santa.

He looked over the babies, smiling at them and wishing them well.

When Margaret, 31, found out she was pregnant with five after hormone therapy,
she said she tamped down on her excitement.

"After you suffer two miscarriages -- and I think women who have been through
that understand -- it's really hard to get excited about a pregnancy, because as
soon as I would get excited, something like that would happen," she said.

Michael, 34, said he "was stunned, and I don't think I talked for about four
weeks."

A team of 24 people were involved in the delivery process. They were born at 32
weeks and 1 day, far past the national average of 26 to 27 weeks for
quintuplets.

They weighed between 3 pounds 6 ounces and 3 pounds 14 ounces. All of the
children are now off ventilators, progressing well and considered healthy.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Mark Henle, The Republic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             212 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Hurts perfect for Alabama's offense;
Freshman QB makes right decisions as Tide seek to repeat as champions

BYLINE: Nicole Auerbach, @NicoleAuerbach, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 7C

LENGTH: 1173 words


Though so much attention on Alabama focuses on its dominant defense, its offense
is worthy of closer examination, too. It's also deserving of more credit than it
gets for its part of the program's dominance over the last two years.

Coach Nick Saban's willingness to evolve from a strictly pro-style offense to
one that incorporates run pass options (RPOs), zone read and other spread
elements is perhaps the most important piece, alongside the hiring of offensive
coordinator Lane Kiffin, who implements those elements into the game plan on a
weekly basis.

What this means is that an ultra-athletic dual-threat quarterback such as
freshman Jalen Hurts is more effective in the current system than he would have
been in the Alabama offense, say, four years ago.

"They've really spread the field with a lot of athletes," Arkansas defensive
coordinator Robb Smith told USA TODAY Sports. "What Jalen Hurts has done -- and
he's a tremendous athlete in his own right -- is he makes really good decisions
in that offense. He knows exactly where he wants to go in the pass game, and
when it isn't there, he's able to scramble and pick up yards. ... They do a
really nice job with designed quarterback runs when they spread them out. They
have so many different weapons around him; you're allocating resources to get
personnel matchups on the perimeter, and it opens up opportunities for him on
the inside.

"And he makes really good decisions. He's just starting to scratch the surface
of how good of a player he could be."

Hurts, who's 6-2 and 209 pounds, enrolled at Alabama early. His impact on the
team came quickly; he played Clemson's Deshaun Watson on the scout team to help
prepare the Tide for their national championship matchup last January. From then
until fall camp, Hurts focused on learning Alabama's playbook and worked -- hard
and heavy -- in the weight room.

By the time he wrestled away the starting quarterback spot from Blake Barnett to
start the season, the situation the freshman was walking into could be described
as such: You've got a tremendous defense that will rarely, if ever, put you in a
tough position where you find yourself in a big hole. You've also got great
talent on the offensive side of the ball at every single position around you.
And you've got one of the best play-callers in the game on your sideline in
Kiffin, who has taken a first-year starter to the College Football Playoff in
each of the past two seasons. Hurts is now the third.

For a freshman, you couldn't ask for a better situation to walk into. For
Alabama, you couldn't have asked for a better freshman to walk into it.

Opposing coaches credit, almost immediately, Hurts' poise -- and his ability to
quickly shake off mistakes, be it a bad interception or fumble -- as one of the
keys to his success.

"In our game, he did throw an interception, and he fumbled the ball," Tennessee
defensive coordinator Bob Shoop said. "If I'm not mistaken, I think on each of
the drives after those he led his team to a score (one resulted in a touchdown,
the other a missed field goal attempt by Adam Griffith). That's the sign of --
they have a good team, obviously, I don't want to diminish that -- but that's
the sign of a competitor and a mature player to be able to handle adversity.

"As a freshman, leading your team to a 13-0 record and the Playoff, he's done
quite a job handling all that comes with that."

Any discussion of Hurts' poise naturally includes Alabama's season opener
against Southern California. Hurts fumbled the first snap of his collegiate
career; the Trojans recovered. But none of his teammates could tell anything bad
had happened when they looked at his demeanor on the sideline.

"It was like he forgot about the fumble a second after it happened," Saban has
said.

Said former Florida defensive coordinator Geoff Collins, now Temple's head
coach: "He doesn't get flustered. He knows he has enough weapons around him that
if he just plays within himself, takes care of the ball, makes the right checks,
gets the run plays the right looks ... then they're going to have success. When
it is time for him to make a play, he can make it. If he makes a negative play,
he doesn't have to worry, because they have such a great defense and have such
great special teams. It's not the end of the world."

The three Southeastern Conference defensive coordinators who helped USA TODAY
Sports break down Hurts' on-field performance this season all underscored the
importance of knowing where he is at all times -- because he's so dangerous on
the ground.

"We wanted to make sure at all times we were stressing that part of it," Collins
said. "We held him to 1 yard rushing, which was vital. Whenever they're in a
point where (opponents) needed to put somebody away, they use him or he just
decides to keep the ball and take over the game. We knew at some point that was
coming. We tried to have an extra hat on him at all times, whether it be in zone
read or spying him on third down if he tried to escape the rush. But we were
very aware of him as a runner. Obviously, he's a good thrower, too, but the
plays he makes on the run are the ones that can kill you."

Said Shoop, "He makes plays on his feet when things break down. As a defensive
coordinator, that's the most challenging thing -- when you do everything right.
You've covered the pass-rush lanes, suddenly the guy is able to scramble and
improvise and make a play. ... That's something the great college quarterbacks
do."

And if scrambling is not an option, Hurts is good at throwing the ball away. All
three coordinators noted that he is well-trained in that regard, which makes
sense in a Saban system -- limit self-inflicted mistakes by making good
decisions.

Hurts also excels, quite often, on RPOs and the decision-making involved in that
and other spread concepts. You'll notice this particularly on early downs, Shoop
said.

"I've seen him do a great job with run pass options where, in the framework of a
single snap, he's got the ability to keep the ball, hand the ball off or throw
the ball on the perimeter to one of their skill players," Shoop said. "He's able
to operate that piece of the offense really, really well."

RPOs will get Alabama's offense into a good rhythm, and the talented wideouts
and tight ends can then open up passing opportunities anytime, especially on
third down. And it's not like Hurts often plays from behind -- again, the luxury
of a terrific, smothering defense -- but if that situation were to present
itself in the Playoff, Smith is confident Hurts could handle it well. It all
comes back to his poise, his ability to limit mistakes and the talent that
surrounds him.

"They have so many weapons," Smith said. "If you want to load up and take away
the quarterback run game, there are going to be an awful lot of one-on-ones on
the perimeter. He can make those throws. He's proven he can make those throws,
and he can do the same if they're playing from behind. He can scramble and make
the throws.

"I just think there's an awful lot of talent on that offense."

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Brett Davis, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             213 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Days after attack, Berlin reopens Christmas market;
Germans defy terrorists through holiday tradition

BYLINE: Kim Hjelmgaard, @khjelmgaard, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 405 words


Thursday evening, Eric Heinrich and five of his closest friends did what they
have done every year for the past 15 years: They met at Breitscheidplatz
Christmas market to drink mugs of warm, spiced German wine.

"This attack is not going to change my life. I will still go to work, soccer
games, clubs, meet my friends," Heinrich, 34, an aeronautical engineer, said as
the festive market reopened three days after a truck rampage that killed 12
people and injured 48. "These attacks always try to divide us, but they always
bring people closer together, not farther apart."

Berliners such as Heinrich and his friends braved cold, light rain to show their
defiance of Monday night's attack, even as the hunt went on for Anis Amri, 24, a
Tunisian national whose identity papers and fingerprints were found inside the
truck.

"We weren't sure whether it was the right thing to do at first, to come down
here," said Karsten Mueller, one of Heinrich's friends. "We had some discussions
about it."

Except for some makeshift memorials laden with candles, flowers and homemade
signs, all evidence of the truck and the havoc it unleashed had been cleared
away. The paths between the  wooden booths and stalls may not have been as busy
as would usually be expected a few days before Christmas, but visitors tried to
get on with the business of being as merry as possible.

"No, no, no -- not scared or nervous. Appreciative," said Ansaldi Bartolo, 68, a
retired cook who examined some of the notes left for the victims at the market.
Bartolo lives nearby. He had been at the market Saturday and Sunday with his
family. They had considered coming Monday as well but decided against it.

To emphasize his point that Berliners would not be intimidated by this attack,
Bartolo clenched both his fists and raised them toward the sky.

Across the road, about half a dozen large police vans idled, and concrete
barriers lined the market's entire road-facing perimeter. Inside the market,
some of the customary bright lights were dimmed, and there was no evidence of
the party music that can usually be heard. Instead, a band quietly played
Amazing Grace.

The slightly somber mood did not diminish the seasonal smells: Obviously, there
was sausage. There is at every German Christmas market. There were also
deep-fried potato pancakes topped with applesauce, cream-covered waffles with a
snowdrift of sugar, gingerbread, fruitcake and chocolate-covered marzipan.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Kim Hjelmgaard, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             214 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Boise State fans still cheering for Petersen;
Washington coach's legacy lives on in Idaho

BYLINE: Dan Wolken, dwolken@usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 1490 words


A few minutes before noon on a quiet December day, a group of schoolchildren
walked through the Allen Noble Hall of Fame, bypassing trophy cases and grainy
pictures to see what most of them really came to see.

The day before, it was someone from Thailand who had come to visit Boise State
football's famous blue turf, which was notable because it was the 37th country
represented since retirees Don Moe and Dave Croft persuaded the school in May to
allow them to give tours Monday through Friday.

"A lot of people have it on their bucket list," Moe said.

It's absurd, in a sense, that people would make a point to visit Idaho or go out
of their way just to see a football field; not Alabama's or Notre Dame's, mind
you, but the field belonging to a program that has never won or even played for
a national championship and became part of the national conversation only a
decade ago.

It underscores, however, what a dramatic impact Chris Petersen had during his 13
years at Boise State, the last eight of which he was head coach and led the
program to 92 wins and four top-10 finishes before going to Washington, finally
saying yes to a Power Five job after years of saying no.

The consequences of that decision have been profound on both programs. Petersen
took his philosophy, much of his Boise State staff and a few recruits and
transformed the Huskies, getting them into the College Football Playoff in his
third season. They will play Alabama on Dec.31 in the Peach Bowl as heavy
underdogs in a scenario reminiscent of the Jan.1, 2007, Fiesta Bowl, where
Petersen's team stunned Oklahoma and became college football's perpetual
Cinderella.

Boise State, meanwhile, has settled back into the kind of program it was before
Petersen: consistently good but without realistic aspirations of achieving much
more than a Mountain West Conference title (which, for the record, it failed to
do the last two years).

"I'm accustomed to Coach Pete and his style, so it's harder for me to adapt, I
guess," said Torry McAlvain, the president of a construction company and Boise
State booster who remains part of Petersen's small circle of personal friends.
"It's different. That's all I can say. It's different."

But even while the fortunes of the two programs have gone in opposite directions
since Petersen's move, there is no lingering bitterness here three years later.
While Boise State football remains almost the sole focus of the local sports
community, there has been at least a passing interest in Washington's rise. And
when the Huskies play Alabama, there's no doubt who the majority of Boise State
fans will be rooting for.

"People would love for Coach Pete to win a national championship," said Travis
Hawkes, a local businessman who fortuitously opened a Boise State merchandise
store a few months before the 2006 season. "It's good for Boise State that he's
been so successful. I think it indicates how good Boise State really was. This
shows it wasn't just getting up for one game or a fluke or because of the
schedule. This indicates Boise State was the real deal. The talent was the real
deal. The system was the real deal, and he can replicate that with success at
Washington."

While that logic makes perfect sense in a vacuum, it's rare in the ecosystem of
college sports, where fan behavior is largely tied into the facade that their
school is a utopia that no player or coach would aspire to leave behind. And
often it's hard to blame them. Coaches, especially at schools that aren't
traditional powers, typically spend years pumping the collective ego of their
fan base and talking publicly about how they can accomplish anything they want
in their current job.

Though some Boise State fans were initially upset that Petersen didn't coach the
Hawaii Bowl after taking the Washington job and that a handful of Boise State
recruits switched to the Huskies, it has largely become a non-issue. In fact,
when Washington played at Boise State to open the 2015 season in a game
scheduled years before Petersen's departure, fans cheered him during pregame
introductions.

"I suppose there could be somebody still mad, but I don't know them and I don't
want to know them," said Milford Terrell, a former Idaho State Board of
Education member and Boise State booster, who claims to have been the first to
give Petersen the Coach Pete moniker the day he was elevated from offensive
coordinator to head coach.

From the moment he won the Fiesta Bowl to complete a 13-0 debut season, Petersen
had suitors across the country. He rebuffed each of them to stay at Boise. From
Southern California to Mississippi State to Stanford, there was constant
speculation that he would follow Houston Nutt (Arkansas), Dirk Koetter (Arizona
State) and Dan Hawkins (Colorado) to power conference jobs.

But each time he said no, citing the comfort of his family and the control he
had at a program tailored to his exact desires.

As Boise State became more successful, Petersen erected walls -- literally and
figuratively -- to put distance between himself and the public. The indoor
practice facility built in 2006 had locks on its doors, ending the days of
longtime ticketholders such as Moe dropping by to bring coffee and shoot the
breeze with assistants. Many schools contractually have their coach do a weekly
radio show from a local restaurant as part of a marketing deal; Petersen did his
from a private studio on campus. He also ended the weekly tradition of a Monday
luncheon at which groups of Boise State supporters could hear him and ask
questions.

Instead, Petersen formed a group called the Coaches Club; he would appear at a
handful of events and grant access to some practices for a $5,000 donation a
year.

"He looked at things like, 'How does that make us better?'" Hawkes said. "Having
a coach's show at a sports bar doesn't, but showing up to the Coaches Club six
times a year got him $500,000 he could give to his assistants."

In reality, though, a number of factors had conspired to ultimately motivate him
to leave, particularly after the Kellen Moore era ended in 2011.

With Moore at quarterback, Boise State went 50-3 over a four-year stretch,
including victories against Oregon, a No.3-ranked TCU team, Virginia Tech and
Georgia. In 2010, the Broncos came painfully close to the national championship
discussion, reaching No.4 in the Bowl Championship Series rankings before losing
to Nevada in overtime when Kyle Brotzman, a very good kicker, missed from 26 and
29 yards in the closing sequence.

On the heels of Moore's graduation, Boise State was also going through
conference affiliation turmoil. It had joined up with the Big East as a
football-only member thinking it had secured power conference status and
funding. But then the Big East fell apart, morphing into the American Athletic
Conference, and Boise went back to the Mountain West still on the outside
looking in as the new College Football Playoff format was being hashed out.

Boise State's 2012 team was very good -- the vast majority of programs would
take 11-2 and a No.14 finish in the coaches poll -- but gravity was naturally
taking hold after so many years on top.

Things didn't get better in 2013; in fact, Boise State went 8-5 while fans
questioned Petersen's choice of Robert Prince as offensive coordinator and the
quarterback recruiting decisions as the team struggled to replace Moore.

Hawkes, a life-long Boise resident and graduate of the university, understands
that the run Petersen guided will probably never be matched. Like everyone else,
he felt the immediate depression that hovered over the community for a time
after he was gone and wishes the magic carpet ride had continued forever.

But he also understands how much Petersen gave the program and raised the entire
school's profile, all the while turning down so many lucrative offers to coach
elsewhere rather than jumping at the first opportunity to leave.

"He was nothing but an outstanding coach, gentleman and citizen," McAlvain said.
"There's no hard feelings because he left. They feel like they're a part of him
because he was here so long, and they're excited for him now. In the coaching
industry there's always something better. I knew eventually, one day, there was
no way we could keep him in Boise, Idaho. He had too much talent."

And now that talent is bringing Washington to similar highs, with perhaps more
to come. Given the connections between the two programs -- including seven
assistants who were former Boise State players or coaches -- Boise State fans
have at least a little bit of investment in the Huskies' success.

"Washington was a good match for him, and I don't feel any different about him
today than the day he left," Moe said. "The old school fans look at Pete and see
a sideline shot of the bench and see Pete Kwiatkowski and Bush Hamdan there and
they see Keith Bhonapha and some of those guys, you have an instant feeling
like, 'Those are my guys.' Obviously you want to see them do well."

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Kirby Lee, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             215 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Weather to snarl holiday travel for many

BYLINE: Doyle Rice, @usatodayweather, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 285 words


A potent storm will put a lump of coal in the stockings of travelers and
residents alike in much of the western and central USA this Christmas weekend.

The system is forecast to bring everything from a wintry mix and a blizzard to
drenching rain and severe thunderstorms to a large swath of the USA from Friday
through Sunday. Only the eastern part of the country will remain relatively
tranquil.

The storm will first move into the West Coast on Friday, bringing heavy rain and
the potential for flash flooding in California. Heavy snowfall is expected in
the higher terrain of the Sierra Nevada, the National Weather Service said. Snow
will also fall over the Cascades, northern Great Basin and northern Rockies.

As the system pushes eastward, conditions should begin to dry out by the weekend
along the West Coast, the weather service predicts.

By Christmas Eve, the Rockies will see additional snow, which will spread into
the Plains by Saturday evening. On Christmas Day, howling winds of up to 60 mph
and heavy snow totaling up to 9 inches will probably lead to a full-fledged
blizzard in portions of the Rockies and the Dakotas.

Travel may become "impossible" in those areas Christmas Day, lingering into
early Monday, and numerous roads, including major interstates, are likely to be
shut down, the Weather Channel said. "This has the potential to become a
widespread and significant winter storm across the northern Plains," the
National Weather Service in Bismarck, N.D., warned.

The Weather Channel has named the storm Winter Storm Europa.

Farther east, in the Midwest, milder air will mean rain and wet travel
conditions for cities such as Chicago, Detroit, Indianapolis, Des Moines and
Omaha on Christmas Day.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             216 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Clues in Salaam death point to heavy burden;
1994 winner saw Heisman as more curse than coup

BYLINE: Brent Schrotenboer, @schrotenboer, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 8C

LENGTH: 2384 words


Before he committed suicide this month at age 42, Rashaan Salaam often seemed to
struggle with 45 pounds of extra weight on his back.

That's roughly how much it measured on the scale -- the Heisman Trophy. The
trophy seemed to burden him before he even won it, in the fall of 1994.

"I'm scared," he said then. "I really don't want to win it because I know how
much pressure is put upon me."

After Salaam won it, that view only seemed to get worse.

He described it like a curse, an impossible set of expectations that followed
him everywhere. The stiff-armed statue bedeviled him in other strange ways, too.
In 2011, a family member sold Salaam's Heisman ring for more than $8,000,
according to Salaam's brother.

The trophy itself is also missing, according to an official at the University of
Colorado, where Salaam played from 1992 to 1994.

Two  Heisman Trophies are awarded to the annual winner -- one to the player, the
other to the player's school. Colorado keeps one of Salaam's Heisman trophies on
display here, but the whereabouts of Salaam's personal Heisman are a mystery.
His father said he didn't know where it was, and his brother said he last heard
it was in storage, but he wasn't sure.

"The Heisman is currently lost -- the family (or Salaam) loaned it to someone
for display and it was supposed to be sent back to his mom, but it never showed
up," CU sports information director Dave Plati told USA TODAY Sports.

Ultimately, even the time and place of his shocking death seemed to be shadowed
by the trophy. He didn't choose to die at home, where he lived in Superior,
Colo. Instead, he picked a quiet park about 12 miles away in Boulder, just a
short hike up the Boulder Creek path from the football stadium where he galloped
his way to the Heisman as a Colorado running back.

He died Monday night, Dec. 5, the same week of the year he otherwise might be
preparing to go to the annual Heisman Trophy presentation in New York. This
year's Heisman ceremony was Dec. 10. He didn't plan to go.

"Rashaan had previously indicated to us that he would be unable to attend the
Heisman this year," Heisman Trophy coordinator Tim Henning told USA TODAY
Sports.

Perhaps no one will ever understand why Salaam felt compelled to kill himself.
Family and friends described hints of depression hidden beneath his giving
personality and beaming smile. His brother said Salaam had symptoms associated
with football head trauma, including memory loss. But there was one memory he
would not forget, and it defined his life, for better or worse. He won the
Heisman, arguably the most prestigious individual award in American sports.

And that was a huge blessing for him, giving him fame and popularity and a
marketing campaign that he later used to help underprivileged kids.

Yet it also sometimes felt like a hex. And he never quite got over it. He also
often failed to grasp just how many people loved him for it.

The quiet plan

This is where he died -- at a neighborhood park at the foot of the Rocky
Mountains, a quiet place with towering trees and a playground, next to a creek
that flowed by the campus and stadium where he made his name.

The clues indicate he planned it all out. He chose a secluded area away from
visible traffic. A note was found, his mother, Khalada, told USA TODAY Sports
the next day. Its contents have not been disclosed.

"It was a very short, private note," said his brother, Jabali Alaji. "But it
explained a lot ... I'll never reveal exactly what it said."

The cause of death has not been officially released. But multiple people
indicated to USA TODAY Sports that Salaam shot himself. His mother, who had
possession of Salaam's trophy after he won it, declined further comment.

Salaam gave no apparent advance notice of his final act. Two people told USA
TODAY Sports they spoke with Salaam by phone in the hours before his death:
Alaji and Tim James, a safety on Colorado's 1990 national championship team who
became friends with Salaam in later years.

Alaji and James said Salaam gave no hint of his fatal plans. Alaji described it
as a "very positive conversation" and said he and Salaam "made plans for the
future."

James said he spoke with Salaam for about 90 minutes, and the topics included
CU's successful football season this year. At the end of the call, James said he
urged Salaam to answer the phone when he called him in the future because Salaam
had shown a tendency in recent months for being unresponsive to text messages
and phone calls.

Likewise, former teammates had trouble reaching him, including Blake Anderson, a
former CU receiver. John Reid, a partner in Salaam's charitable endeavors, also
wondered where he was.

"Some of the volunteers were wanting to know if we were going to plan a winter
program this year for the kids," said Reid, who collaborated with Salaam to send
at-risk teens on a ski trip to Aspen in 2015. "We kept calling him. He had sort
of  gone into seclusion. Blake was actually calling me and asking if I had heard
from him. I said, 'No, have you heard from him?'"

They didn't know. Nobody really knew. Outwardly, Salaam could flash his famous
smile and give the appearance of happiness.

"He was just that type of infectious personality, so happy," former Colorado
receiver Michael Westbrook said. "I guess he was just really good at hiding and
concealing anything that was hurting him."

It was easy to conceal if he kept to himself, alone in his condo down the
Boulder turnpike in Superior. It appeared to be a comfortable place for a young,
single adult, a one-bedroom unit in a clean, gated community with a view of the
Flatiron Crossing shopping mall.

Less than a week after his death, his family and friends gathered to empty it
out. Alaji said he looked but found no bottles of alcohol or pills.

He said he spoke with his brother regularly and that Salaam had "all the
symptoms" of chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE), which is associated with
football head trauma.

"He had the symptoms the whole time," Alaji said. "Maybe he was in denial. He
was too prideful to go out here and say, 'I physically need help.'"

At Salaam's funeral service in Boulder, his father, Sultan Salaam, described his
son as having had a "mental breakdown." About a week later, at a memorial for
Salaam in his hometown of San Diego, he expressed anguish to a crowd of friends
and family.

"Open the door!" he said. "Love your family. Talk to your family. Real talk. Do
not joke. Do not play. Life is serious."

Afterward, Sultan Salaam said the circumstances that led his son's death are
unclear and might never be known.

"It could be concussions," he said. "It could be something else."

Trail of despair

Of the eight top votegetters for the 1994 Heisman Trophy, three are dead.

Former Nebraska running back Lawrence Phillips finished eighth that year and
died in January after hanging himself in prison at age 40. Third-place finisher
Steve McNair, a former quarterback for Alcorn State, was killed in 2009 at age
36, victim of a murder-suicide in which his girlfriend fatally shot McNair
before killing herself.

This eerie trail of despair also extends to the NFL, where Salaam played for the
Chicago Bears and took handoffs as a rookie in 1995 from quarterback Erik
Kramer, who struggled with depression and shot himself in the head last year but
survived.

In retrospect, Salaam's mother seemed prophetic in 1994 when she told a reporter
that her son was reluctant about winning the Heisman because, she said, "He
seems to think some of the guys who won it in recent years haven't done that
well and that there might be some kind of negative thing attached to it."

It's called the Heisman curse -- a spotty correlation between some trophy
winners and their lack of success in subsequent bowl games or the NFL.

Salaam experienced no such curse in the Fiesta Bowl against Notre Dame, scoring
three touchdowns in a 41-24 win. He also rushed for 1,074 yards and was named
NFC rookie of the year for the Chicago Bears in 1995.

Instead, the Heisman represented unwanted pressure for Salaam, who often seemed
more content being a face in the crowd among teammates or hanging out with
friends from San Diego or Colorado. He deflected praise to his offensive linemen
so often in 1994 that it seemed he wanted them to have the trophy instead.

"It was always about the teammates," former CU safety Chris Hudson said of
Salaam's outlook.

After injuries cut short his NFL career, Salaam still described the Heisman as a
burden  in his post-playing life, James said.

"He just thought it was a curse, the Heisman was a curse, and he didn't live up
to the expectations in his mind," James said. "It just didn't pan out for him in
his mind. He struggled with that."

It was a matter of perspective. He didn't find glory and immense wealth in the
NFL, but not many do. His first contract was for four years and $3.8 million.
After the NFL, he co-founded a company called the Art of War that helped promote
mixed martial arts events in China. That didn't make him wealthy, either, but
longtime friend Greg Morrissey said Salaam was financially comfortable.
Morrissey described Salaam as "everyone's best friend" and questions whether
Salaam's outlook would have changed if his NFL career was more successful.

The Heisman "can be a plus or it can be a negative," Morrissey said. "Injuries
happen and things come up. To be that young, to go in that league, to have
success as a rookie, a 1,000-yard rusher and three years later be out of the
league, and a Heisman Trophy winner? That's a hard deal, man."

In recent years, Salaam moved back from San Diego to Colorado, where the
community embraced him. He served as grand marshal of the CU homecoming parade
in 2014 and started working with at-risk kids.

"When you give that much of yourself away, when you need something one day,
there's not much (of yourself to) hold on to," said Shannon Clavelle, another
former CU teammate. "It's spread out so much. But he loved doing that. That's
what he was about."

Salaam spent time with kids through a charity called SPIN, which stands for
Supporting People in Need.

Riley Robert Hawkins, who founded the SPIN organization, said he sensed Salaam
had regrets that his football career came to an end after parts of four seasons.
Kids helped him get away from that.

"He loved Colorado and he loved CU and he loved making kids laugh and trying to
figure out where their hurts are, and where they're misunderstood," Hawkins
said. "Sometimes I think he was misunderstood, too."

'He didn't have an ego'

The Heisman Trophy isn't easy to tote around and doesn't exactly fit in the
storage bins of an airplane. So Salaam had to find another place for it as he
made his way back to Colorado from New York, where he won the award decisively
in December 1994.

He placed it on the seat next to him on the airplane.

"It had its own seat in first class with a blue blanket over it," said Plati of
CU. "Made it look like E.T."

It was an unforgettable time in an unforgettable season. Salaam was barely 20
but burst to fame while becoming just the fourth player in major-college
football history to gain at least 2,000 yards rushing in a season. He slashed
for big gains behind his blockers all season, helping the Buffaloes finish No. 3
nationally with an 11-1 record, with the lone defeat coming against the
Nebraska, the eventual national champion.

In one game, a 27-26 win at Michigan, he rushed for 141 yards and two touchdowns
before throwing a key block on the game's final play, when his quarterback,
Kordell Stewart, launched a game-winning Hail Mary touchdown pass to Westbrook
as time expired. A week later, Salaam rumbled for 317 yards to help CU beat
Texas 34-31 on a hot day in Austin.

On his final regular-season college play, he raced downfield for a 67-yard run
in a win at home against Iowa State, giving him 2,055 yards and 24 touchdowns
for the season. His teammates swarmed him in the end zone and lifted him up.

About 20 years later, the sparks of those college years still burned. About two
years ago, he ran into Shelley Martin, who lived in the same dorm as Salaam at
CU during their college days.

The relationship blossomed the last two years, said Martin, his girlfriend.

"I don't want our pain to be in vain," she wrote in an email. "Still in
disbelief and hurt. ... Hoping he will be coming through the door, pick me up.
... Never this pain I have felt."

In early 2015, Salaam helped organize a "Ski for Heisman" event in Aspen that
brought about 30 inner-city teens to the slopes with law-enforcement officers.
The idea was to improve relations with police and at-risk youth.

Reid, who helped raise funds for the event, remembers CU alumni and fans in
Aspen asking Salaam for photographs and autographs. They didn't care about the
length of his NFL career or how famous he did or didn't become after leaving CU.

"One night, the kids were back in their rooms, and we were just hanging out,"
Reid said. "I remember saying to him, 'You don't get it. You don't have a grasp
of how people hold you and what they think of you.'"

According to Reid, Salaam responded by asking if these people really knew who he
was.

"Holy crap!" Reid said he told Salaam. "They know who you are, dude!"

"He didn't have an ego," Reid said. "I just think he was there for the right
reasons and he was oblivious to himself being a superstar or someone who people
held in high regard."

More people now wish they had told him about how much they loved him. But they
didn't know he didn't know. And he wasn't showing he needed it.

"It's about holding on to pain and not letting people know what's really going
on," said Alaji, his brother. "They're gladiators. They're strong people. ...
Whenever something goes wrong, or they hurt, they would never let the world know
until almost like it's too late."

Salaam's father said if there was anything that should be said or written about
his son it was this: "He was a team player," he said. "That means together each
achieves more. Not by yourself."

As for the Heisman, Salaam's father said it was only a football award and didn't
define his son's life.

"It is very damaging to hear some of the reports coming out, like he had a long,
slow fall from grace," he said. "The Heisman Trophy is an award given for
football. There is no long, slow fall. It's a football award. You can't put
anybody on a pedestal like that."

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Isaiah J. Downing, IUSA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             217 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Ovechkin gives novice shot to remember

BYLINE: A.J. Perez, @byajperez, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 896 words


I could have begged for mercy.

"Hard shots or not hard shots?" Washington Capitals sniper Alex Ovechkin asked.

The project, pitched my way by an editor months earlier, was about to go down: A
beer league goalie (me) vs. Ovechkin (the greatest scorer of his generation,
whose shots can exceed 100mph and who makes the world's best goalies look silly
on a regular basis).

"Go easy for a couple," I replied since it had been a few days since I had faced
a shot, during a pickup game at a nearby rink. "Then, go as hard as you want."

Ovechkin began playing organized ice hockey at 8, and by 16, he was playing in
Russia's highest professional league. I was a junior at San Jose State when I
first played hockey. I was hooked, and I quickly ran up my credit cards buying
equipment as I found a beginner league to play in.

The beer leagues in the Bay Area, Southern California and Northern Virginia
didn't prep me for facing this guy. Ovechkin, being nice at first, flung his
first couple shots at me. I stayed at the top of the crease like you're supposed
to, trying not to give him much net to shoot at.

"So, now harder, or no?" Ovechkin asked.

One of my friends in the stands at Kettler Capitals Iceplex yelled, "Yeah,
harder!"

Great.

There were two things I did after Capitals vice president of communications
Sergey Kocharov gave us the green light for the project: I acquired a padded
shirt to protect my collarbones -- I wanted extra support in case I couldn't
react quickly enough.  And I crammed, taking two goalie lessons, after having
had all of one in my life beforehand.

But so far, so good. I was making more stops than I expected. The pucks were
hitting my gear, and I felt no pain. Ovechkin, seeing that I was being
aggressive as I inched toward him, flipped one over my head. This was where my
years as a baseball player came in handy.

"Yeah, that's too high. It won't go in," I thought to myself.

I was right. It missed, and I dodged Ovechkin humiliating me, at least for one
moment.

I could tell his shots didn't have the same vigor as fans are used to seeing
during games, but Capitals goalie coach Mitch Korn assured me that's normal.

"He shoots hard, but on a day-to-day basis, I think he's respectful (in
practices)," Korn said. "He understands that his shot can kill you, and if he's
going to kill anybody, it won't be a teammate."

Ovechkin told us afterward that he was going at "60% intensity," about how hard
he shoots in practice.

Goalies, even beer league goalies like myself, have a crazy streak in them. Who
else wants to stop a 3-inch vulcanized rubber disc being shot at them dozens of
times a game?

I'll be the first to admit I can be surly on the ice, so when Korn reviewed the
footage, I had to chuckle when he noted the No.27 on my jersey.

"Ron Hextall?" he asked, referencing the former Philadelphia Flyers goalie who
was one of the most volatile (and violent) goalies in NHL history.

In fact, when we did this event, I was serving a three-game suspension for
fighting at my local rink. The No.27, I explained to Korn, was actually a
tribute to my favorite baseball player, the late Los Angeles Dodgers utility
player Mike Sharperson.

Ovechkin was done firing slap shots, and now it was time for his trademark
one-timers from the circle to my right. This is Ovechkin's favorite spot from
which to shoot, and he has scored a good portion of his 539  goals over his 12
NHL seasons from there.

I took my position at the top of the crease as Ovechkin was fed pucks. He might
have taken it easy on me during the slap shots, but he was ripping them now as I
slid to my right each time in hopes of stopping him.

"A lot of his shots are from one-timers off of a pass," Korn said. "That forces
a goalie to move from one spot to the other. You have to be mobile."

Shockingly, I stopped a few -- one with my face.

Ovechkin apologized, but this was my badge of honor. I smelled rubber
immediately after the puck ricocheted off my mask, so I knew he got me good. But
I didn't know until afterward that he had put a dent in the cage. I had a
souvenir.

The one-timers gassed me. Beyond being a USA TODAY Sports reporter, I also run a
personal training business. Ten days before facing Ovechkin, I completed 53
miles in the World's Toughest Mudder, a 24-hour obstacle race held outside Las
Vegas. I'm in above-average shape.

But I felt like I had just done a few dozen burpees, and we weren't done.

Now, it was time for breakaways.

Sadly, I didn't have much left, and this is where it became clear that most of
my goalie "instruction" came from watching Dominik Hasek, the 2014 Hall of Fame
inductee whose unconventional style of strategic flailing appealed to me.

I stopped one of Ovechkin's breakaways. I'm convinced it was because Ovechkin
had no idea why I was lying across the crease as he skated in. It still counts.
I knew my usual weapon in beer league on these kinds of chances, a desperation
poke check where I dart my stick out, couldn't be used. Imagine if Ovechkin
tripped on my stick and got hurt. I envisioned hundreds of people rocking the
red at my house with pitchforks and torches.

Overall, he made me look silly on the breakaways.

As we finished up, I thanked Ovechkin for the opportunity and asked for an
assessment of my play.

He paused for a moment, as if to be searching for a delicate way to deliver bad
news.

"Not that good, obviously," Ovechkin replied. "But it's OK."

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Brad Mills, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             218 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Suspending Allen right thing to do

BYLINE: Nancy Armour, narmour@usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 418 words


At some point during the night, Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski realized enabling
Grayson Allen was no longer the right thing to do.

Maybe it was the withering reaction to his tone-deaf defense of Allen, whose
"mistakes" come too often to be brushed off as that. Maybe, after having more
time to reflect, Krzyzewski recognized that giving Allen a pass as he's done all
the other times has done his mercurial guard no favors.

But the reason for Krzyzewski's change of heart matters less than the result. By
suspending Allen for "an indefinite amount of time," Krzyzewski put a young,
still maturing young man on notice that his basketball skills do not give him a
free pass. There are basic expectations of common decency and good behavior, and
Allen is not exempt from them.

"He took an important step last night by apologizing in person to Steven Santa
Ana and coach Matt Matheny," Krzyzewski said in his statement Thursday
announcing the suspension. "As a program, we needed to take further steps
regarding his actions that do not meet the standards of Duke basketball."

That's a far different tone than Krzyzewski's smug condescension Wednesday
night, when he said he's handled Allen's repeated episodes of immaturity
correctly and, if anyone disagreed, too bad.

"I don't need to satisfy what other people think that I should do," Krzyzewski
said. "And I'm a teacher and a coach, and I'm responsible for that kid."

Exactly. Which is why everyone but Krzyzewski could see right away that putting
Allen in timeout was necessary.

This was not the first time Allen has tripped an opposing player. It's not even
the first time this calendar year. When Allen stuck out his leg to stop a
driving Santa Ana, it was the third time since February he's resorted to dirty
play.

And therein lies the problem. At some point, Allen will no longer be one of the
best basketball players in the country. He will be an Ordinary Joe who has to
get along with his family, co-workers and neighbors, and losing his temper and
lashing out when things aren't going his way won't get him very far. There are
better, more appropriate ways to handle his anger, and he needs to learn them
when he's young enough to still change his behavior.

Allen is, by all accounts, a nice and even-tempered young man off the court. But
real life is filled with the kind of challenges he faces on the court, and how
he responds will ultimately come to define him. Krzyzewski needed to suspend
Allen the player, but he needed to suspend Allen the person even more.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Chuck Burton, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             219 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Yes, and fill up that portfolio;
Q: Can I give stock as a gift?

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 193 words


A: The holidays are a time for spending for many. Rather than buying yet another
gift card, there are ways to make it more of a time of investing.

Most major brokerages will help you give stock as a gift. If you're giving stock
to a child, you'll most likely need to set it up as a custodial account. After
creating the account, you can then purchase an investment using the dollars you
want to spend. Buying shares of a company that makes products the child likes --
for example, Walt Disney or Hasbro -- is one way to go. Remember buying
individual stocks will incur a commission.

You might also buy an exchange traded fund or mutual fund, which owns these
popular stocks long with many others. Many of these can be bought at no
commission. That way more of your money goes to the gift, not the brokerage, and
you can teach the value of diversification.

You can buy a few of the items made by companies in the portfolio and put those
under the tree.

There are other options. Some services will frame and mail a paper certificate,
but the fees are high. You might also consider funding the child's education
account or even setting one up if they haven't already.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             220 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Nine Inch Nails is 'Burning Bright' this season

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 91 words


Call it the anti-Christmas release. As a holiday surprise for their fans, Nine
Inch Nails is returning with their first new music since 2013, just as the year
is drawing to a close. Before Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross' new EP, Not the
Actual Events, arrives  Friday, the band shared the final track, Burning Bright
(Field on Fire). The new song is a whirlwind of noise, noisy feedback colliding
with drum crashes and droning guitars, over which Reznor yells unintelligible
missives. But one word jumps out, as Reznor repeats in a whisper, "Breathe."


LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Greetsia Tent, WireImage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             221 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Follow the trail of penguins in Antarctica;
It's 10:30 a.m. on Danco Island, and clearly it's time for the penguins to make
the daily trek to the icy water. As they waddle down the snow-covered mountain,
visitors strategically perch on rocks at the end of the penguin highway, a
well-worn trail allowing for a single-file parade.

BYLINE: Sarah Sekula | Special for USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 928 words


Minutes later, the first Gentoo shows up. Its fur-like feathers glisten in the
sunlight. Close behind are four dozen of its web-footed cohorts. Clumsy step
after clumsy step, they reach the highway's end, which gives way to pebbles,
boulders and glassy water. One by one they take unsteady hops from rock to rock.

Necks down. Tails up. Wings back.

One plunges in and out of the water in fine torpedo-like fashion. Another stands
just beyond the shoreline and raises its beak to the sky, letting out a string
of squawks. A handful of neighbors do the same in what becomes an impressive
penguin choir of guttural gurgles and sounds reminiscent of squeaky toys.

"There's no land-based predators, so these penguins are really curious of us,"
says Martin Garwood, a penguinologist aboard Polar Latitudes, the ship that
shuttled us to the  remote seventh continent. "They're not scared of humans;
they just go about their day, and you get to be a part of it."

Whether it's a Chinstrap penguin snatching pebbles from a neighboring nest or an
Adélie tobogganing its way down the mountain, these creatures are certainly
engaging. What makes these moments even more special is that not many humans get
to experience this.

The last frontier

Only an estimated 43,855 people will visit the great white continent during the
2016-2017 season, according to the International Association of Antarctica Tour
Operators. Tourism there is still relatively young. In fact, 2016 marks only the
50th anniversary of organized voyages to the region.

"As travel in general gets more accessible, people want to go farther," says
Jonathan Goldsmith, a polar-region specialist with Audley Travel, a company that
specializes in customized itineraries. "Trips to Antarctica are on the rise
because tours are more available at a wider range of price points than ever
before."

Of course, penguins aren't the only draw. Antarctica's chilly waters are filled
with crabeater seals, orcas and humpback whales. Overhead, it's easy to spot
fast-flying petrels, Antarctic terns and albatrosses with wingspans of up to 11
feet.

A visit to Antarctica will also have you following in the footsteps of
adventurers from the Heroic Age of Exploration. Among the list of brave souls
was Ernest Shackleton. And 2017 marks the 100th anniversary of his Endurance
Expedition (1914 - 1917). When his ship was demolished, he left his crew on
Elephant Island and traveled 800 miles in a lifeboat to find help. He did not
lose a single crew member.

"Remoteness, vast open icy landscapes, unblemished nature and 24 hours of
sunlight are all notions that capture a traveler's attention and desire to visit
Antarctica," Goldsmith says.

In-your-face wildlife

On an afternoon excursion to Hannah Point, we meet gregarious elephant seals and
their pups, or weaners as they are called.

"Go get some weaner love," says Hannah Lawson, our expedition leader.

We enthusiastically hop out of the Zodiac. A male elephant seal, who likely
weighs at least 5,000 pounds, makes belching noises in the distance. Its
distinctive snout flops to and fro as it tosses its head in a sign of dominance.
Closer to shore, two young males rise up and begin slamming each other's chests.

Our view, however, zeroes in on a group of seal pups. With oversize
almond-shaped eyes they stare inquisitively as we sit down. And just a few
minutes later, we discover what weaner love is. One pup caterpillars its way
toward my sister, lays its head on her boot and makes a sneezing noise.

My sister imitates the sneeze, and it takes that as a cue to inch closer. And
closer. Until it successfully snuggles right next to her. Its head lifts up just
a foot away from her face and attempts to nibble her backpack strap.

Weaner  No. 2 makes its way onto my outstretched legs. Even though its likely
about 30 days old, it already weighs 300 pounds.

Later, on board the Hebridean Sky, which has specialized in small-ship
excursions to Antarctica since 2010, Lawson reminds us there are rules against
approaching the wildlife. However, there is no rule against wildlife approaching
visitors.

"They are choosing to interact with you," she says. "And that is pretty
special."

Soaking up  the solitude

Time around the animals is noisy and boisterous. But time among the icebergs is
the opposite.

"Part of me wants to peek around that iceberg," says Garwood, our Zodiac driver
on one foggy, snowy morning.

As we approach the cathedral-like formation, Garwood kills the engine and asks
us to be silent. Camera clicks halt. Chatter stops. All we hear are ice chunks
clinking against each other, the swell as it reaches the iceberg and the
occasional petrel chirping.

"There aren't many places left in the world that are free from manmade noises,"
says Garwood.

That's what makes the bottom of the world so special. Not only is it absurdly
beautiful and peaceful, for many, it's often the seventh continent to scratch
off the list, a reward in itself. And the fact that you have to brave the
notorious Drake Passage, 600 miles of rough seas between South America and
Antarctica, makes it that much more gratifying.

If you go

Penguin season:

Penguins return in November and December. There are eggs around Christmas and
young chicks in January.

Pricing:

Cruise season

is mid-October to late March. Cruises range from $4,500 per person for

10 days to high-end charters starting at $50,000 per person for

12 days.

Flights:

For cruise

departures from Ushuaia, Argentina, you need two round-trip flights: your
departure city to Buenos Aires (starting at $600 from U.S. cities), and onward
to Ushuaia for about $550.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Leah Murr

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             222 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

When a child is born, tests should be uniform

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 508 words


It's too late for little Mel Russell. Too late for Jonathan Page. Too late for
Sierra Creason. All were born with rare, but treatable, genetic disorders that
weren't caught, as they should have been, by routine screening tests for
newborns.

Mel, a 6-year-old from Wisconsin, suffered a stroke at 18 months after acid
built up in his bloodstream because of the disorder. He likely never will be
able to live independently or manage his own diet.

Jonathan, a 6-year-old from North Carolina, also suffered a stroke and uses a
wheelchair.

Sierra suffered from congenital hypothyroidism, an easy to treat and fairly
common condition missed by the state lab in California. When she died at age 23
in 2014, she was blind and had never learned to walk. She was the size of an
8-year-old.

About 1 in 800 babies in the U.S. is born with a condition that can lead to
death or brain damage, and all states have laws requiring nearly all newborns to
be screened for dozens of genetic disorders. These tests are heralded as
lifesavers for about 12,000 babies each year.

But an investigation published this month by the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel
revealed holes in the screening system that cause conditions to be missed in too
many kids.  Standards for newborn testing vary widely from state to state.
Reporter Ellen Gabler also found that many state labs fail to take full
advantage of software developed by Mayo Clinic that could greatly improve
screening. In addition, a federal advisory committee that reports to the
secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS), though well-intentioned, has no
teeth.

Federal officials  should insist on smarter, uniform newborn testing across the
50 states; on the use of the latest technology in assessing tests; and on giving
the federal newborn testing advisory committee authority to ensure newborns get
the care they need. More specifically:

HHS, with the help of the committee that advises the secretary on newborn
screening, should develop a uniform protocol for testing across the 50 states.
That is hardly the case now. Laboratories screen for differing numbers of
disorders, and some use outdated criteria to trigger an "abnormal" screen.

The HHS advisory committee should be given great latitude to impose uniformity
on state labs. The states can, and should be, seen as "laboratories" that can
always add more improvements. But they should be required, at minimum, to use
the best available science for this critical function.

State laboratories should use the latest technology to ensure that testing
regimes are effective and uniform. Mayo Clinic has developed free software that
can access  results from 30 million babies around the world so labs can evaluate
a newborn's tests against those of babies who have been diagnosed with
disorders.

Even in an era of bitter political divisions, saving babies from death or
lifelong suffering should be an easy issue for bipartisan agreement in the new
year.

A version of this editorial appeared previously in the Milwaukee Journal
Sentinel, which is part of the USA TODAY Network.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             223 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

There are more pressing concerns than restrooms

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 345 words


Facebook

North Carolina legislators failed Wednesday to repeal HB2, also known as the
"bathroom bill." The law makes it mandatory for people to use the bathroom that
corresponds to their birth gender.

This is Republican leadership at its finest. They don't care if Russia is
committing espionage against our country as long as our bathrooms are "pure."

Walt Stasinski

I'm moving to North Carolina. Those guys have common sense. Which most of the
country lacks.

Monty Hightower

A law that protects my 5-year-old daughter from running into a creepy old man in
the bathroom because he "feels like a woman that day" is upheld. Why is that
considered news?

KT Dause

How on earth would you even enforce such a silly idea? Do I have to present my
penis to enter the men's bathroom? Is there a camera that does genitalia
recognition?

Rodney Smith

It seems that children have a greater chance of being molested in church,
considering all the scandals that have happened in some, than in a public
restroom by someone who is transgender.

Why are conservatives so worried about this?

Ron Martin

Twitter

We asked followers what they thought of North Carolina's failed attempt at
repealing its bathroom bill.

Go to the bathroom where you're supposed to. Kind of the way it has worked for
the last 200 years.

@patsully35

Have a try at leaving people alone.

@morpheuswaking

The fact that anyone thinks it's OK for a male to use a female bathroom or
locker room is absurd.

@RamblinManNC

It's a great law.

@davebrandonego

For more, follow @USATOpinion and #tellusatoday on Twitter.

Letters

Please quit calling North Carolina's bill on gender the "bathroom bill."

A transgender man could use a closed stall in a men's bathroom. No problem
there. A transgender woman has only closed stalls in the women's bathroom. No
problem there.

Problems do arise in the changing rooms of health clubs, schools and swimming
pools where privacy is often minimal or non-existent. Having no rules for
changing rooms exposes everyone to embarrassment if a man or woman purposely
goes into the wrong area.

Bob Munson

Newbury Park, Calif.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             224 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Super Mario Run' speeds past App Store records;
More than 40million downloads in four days termed 'incredible'

BYLINE: Brett Molina, @brettmolina23, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 191 words


This might be best speed run yet for Super Mario.

Nintendo's first smartphone game set an App Store record for fastest downloads,
topping the 40million mark in just four days, barely skipping a beat after
disappointment over the game's pricing resulted in poor reviews.

It's the top app in 140 regions and countries and the top grossing app in  more
than 100 countries.

"More than 40million downloads in just four days is incredible," Phil Schiller,
Apple's senior vice president of worldwide marketing, said in a statement.

Super Mario Run topped App Store records set last summer by Pokémon Go, a viral
hit launching on both iOS and Android devices. Mario is only available on iOS
devices.

The game features a Super Mario experience similar to what's available on
Nintendo's platforms, only it  automatically runs, leaving players to control
his jumping by tapping the touchscreen.

Shares of Nintendo were hit hard early in the week following a series of mixed
reviews, some of which criticized the game's payment model.

The game is free to download, but players get access to sampling of levels in
each game mode. Accessing the full game costs $9.99.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Nintendo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             225 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

J.K. Rowling confirms to fans she's writing two new novels

BYLINE: Kelly Lawler, @klawls, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 285 words


J.K. Rowling isn't slowing down. If anything, she's speeding up.

The Harry Potter author had an incredibly busy 2016, between helping craft the
story for Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, a London play that continued
Harry's story 19 years after the final book, and promoting Fantastic Beasts and
Where to Find Them, the Potter spin-off film for which she wrote the screenplay.

And even with four more Beasts movies in the pipeline, Rowling isn't trading in
her literary hat for a Hollywood one entirely.  Answering questions from fans on
Twitter, the author confirmed  she is  working on two novels.

A fan first asked when there  might be  a new novel from Rowling, to which she
responded, "I'm working on it (literally)."

Another expressed shock and excitement over the news, to which the author
replied, "I'm always working on a novel. It's my thing."

Is the novel coming from her best-selling mystery-writer pseudonym Robert
Galbraith, or will it be a "Rowling" novel? "One of each, but I'm not sure which
will come out first. I'll let you know as soon as I do!" she tweeted.

If you were hoping the non-Galbraith novel might follow Newt Scamander, who was
introduced in November's Fantastic Beasts, you may be disappointed. "No, no, no.
There won't be Newt Scamander novels. Only movies. Calm down, there!" Rowling
said to an overly excited fan.

She did not, however, give any more details about either book.

Rowling did not publish a novel in 2016, but her name did appear on book
shelves.

Script-book versions of Cursed Child and Fantastic Beasts hit USA TODAY's
Best-Selling Book list, as well as collections of essays from her Pottermore
website. Cursed Child was No. 1 for six consecutive weeks beginning Aug. 4.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jamie McCarthy, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             226 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Nine big taxpayers could get Trump relief;
Centene, Best Buy, AES head select group of firms eager for lower tax rate with
change in White House

BYLINE: Matt Krantz, @mattkrantz, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 299 words


Investors go to great lengths to cut their tax bills. But now, they're actually
looking for companies with the highest tax rates.

Companies with high tax rates are turning into a hidden asset on Wall Street as
President-elect Donald Trump vows to cut corporate tax rates. These companies
and others like them could find lower taxes, if approved, boost profits
practically overnight.

There are nine companies in the Standard & Poor's 500, including healthcare firm
Centene, gadget seller Best Buy and utility AES that have paid effective tax
rates of 40% or higher on average the past five years as well as an above
average tax rate the past 12 months.

Finding companies with high tax rates on the idea they can benefit next year was
a recurring theme at the 21st annual USA TODAY Investment Roundtable held in
December.

Companies that aren't paying so much in taxes can do things with their money
that benefits investors.

"The potential energy is the idea that the current tax rates are high, and
they're going to go to a lower tax rate, which means that will free up a lot of
cash flow that can be used for a different purpose," says David Kostin, chief
U.S. equity strategist at Goldman Sachs.

Centene, a health care insurer, shows how some companies actually do pay just
about the full statutory rate. The company has paid an effective tax rate of 38%
or higher each of the past five years. That's just about the biggest tax load a
U.S. company can pay, Kostin says. The statutory tax rate in the U.S. is 35% and
then the state rate of 4% takes the total rate up to 39%, he says.

Best Buy, an operator of more than 1,500 consumer electronics retail stores
largely in the U.S., paid an effective tax rate the past five years that has
been consistently high and hit roughly 37% over the past 12 months.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             227 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Denzel Washington and Viola Davis build strong 'Fences';
Duo reprise Tony-winning roles for the film version of August Wilson's play

BYLINE: Bryan Alexander, @BryAlexand, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 500 words


Vin Diesel helped prove to Denzel Washington that great Fences need good
neighbors.

Washington invited the office next door on the Paramount lot -- occupied by
Diesel and his producer sister Samantha Vincent -- in to show them his editing
work on August Wilson's Fences, in a scene featuring Viola Davis' Rose talking
about standing by her husband for 18 years.

Washington could hear murmurs of "That's right" from the two as Davis spoke
Wilson's words.

"It was (Davis') power and her honesty. And his words. It had some kind of
effect," says Washington. "For a man to write that for a woman, about how she
feels about a man, it's very interesting."

Make that utterly compelling, as Washington, 61, unveils his directorial effort
and starring turn as former Negro League baseball player Troy Maxson alongside
his devoted Rose in the film adaptation of Fences (in theaters Christmas Day).
The actors reprise their Tony Award-winning roles from the 2010 Broadway revival
of Wilson's Pulitzer Prize-winning play.

Two-time Oscar nominee Davis, 51, star of TV's How to Get Away With Murder,
waited patiently, but expectantly, to speak Wilson's words again for film.

"How often do you get great material? I don't. I always say I have to make a
filet mignon out of a fried chicken dinner," says Davis, causing Washington to
laugh. "Seriously. That's what you do as an actor. It's a job. But when it's a
great narrative, a complete journey and character -- it's a no-brainer."

Two-time Oscar winner Washington gets animated talking about Wilson, standing up
to demonstrate scenes.  The actor, who has signed on to produce nine Wilson
plays for HBO (Ma Rainey's Black Bottom is in development now), craved a movie
part where he didn't have to "massage the material."

"The best pieces of material I had from 'go,' before we had to get in there and
make filet mignon, were A Soldier's Story (1984), from a Pulitzer Prize-winning
play, and Fences," says Washington. "This is rare air. This is August Wilson,
this is Tennessee Williams, Arthur Miller, Eugene O'Neill."

After two weeks of rehearsals, the  cast plumbed the  emotional depths of the
dialogue, making Washington and Davis front-runners in the race for best actor
and supporting actress Oscars. Davis' pivotal "18 years" scene required 23
wrenching takes.

"I counted," Davis says. "And then I thought, 'OK, now I can relax, I'll have my
Painkiller,'" a Caribbean drink.

"It's literally called a Painkiller?" says Washington.

"Yes, and it's delicious by the way," says Davis, adding that the intense scenes
picked right back up. "It started all over again the next day. It did not end."

It did close with a  dramatic scene and what seemed like a supernatural sign of
support from Pittsburgh native Wilson, who died in 2005. "We had this wide shot,
and the gate behind everyone in the shot just closed. And I just felt, 'Wow!'"
says Washington. "People were like, 'Did you put a string on it?' No, it was
just August wanting to be here. He came in for the last scene."

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Robert Hanashiro, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             228 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Moving 'Fences' from stage to screen;
Washington, Davis expand on their Tony-winning roles

BYLINE: Bryan Alexander, @BryAlexand, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 513 words


It wasn't all drama performing August Wilson's Fences on Broadway for stars
Denzel Washington and Viola Davis.

The actors managed to earn a few unintended laughs through 114 emotional
performances, before winning Tony Awards for their roles in the 2010 revival of
Wilson's Pulitzer Prize-winning play (now headed to theaters in the
Washington-directed film, out Christmas Day).

Every night, Washington, 61, would give a speech on stage as flawed husband Troy
about how he had "nothing left to give" his devoted wife Rose, played by Davis,
51. There was always one audience member who vocally sided with Washington.

"When he walks off, there was always some woman who said, 'You can give it to
me' or 'I'll give you something.' Every single night," says Davis, laughing.
"And I had to stay on stage until the lights went down."

The stage performances were long and constant: "Twice on Saturdays and twice on
Wednesdays," Washington notes. But he would gear up for an evening performance
while finishing a matinee.

As soon as he left the stage, "I would be icing my knee and eating (before) the
next performance. I was already getting ready," says Washington. "When you have
great material, you want to get back to it. You give it your all and then you
rest."

Davis, too, found it satisfying to leave it all on the stage floor every night.

"It's a joy to be emotionally drained. If you're not emotionally drained after
that performance, you haven't done your job. You just haven't," says Davis.

The stage production was nightly preparation for the two to reprise their roles
in the movie version. Davis dug deep to find her Rose.

"It was about the third week of the play rehearsals when Rose, I mean Viola,
unloaded on me. That's where I saw that Rose," says Washington. "It would have
been impossible to direct and act in this, if we had not done the play. We can't
be trying to discover who she is and who he is while I'm shooting it. I already
knew what she was going to bring, I knew what Viola had."

Washington insisted that the whole production be shot in the play's setting, the
Hill district of Pittsburgh, where Wilson grew up. The film production enlisted
three other members of Fences' Broadway ensemble: Russell Hornsby (as Troy's
son, Lyons), Mykelti Williamson (Troy's brother, Gabriel) and Stephen McKinley
Henderson (Troy's best friend, Bono).

Washington roughed out the set in a Pittsburgh church gymnasium for additional
rehearsal before shooting began with the two new cast members, Saniyya Sidney
and Jovan Adepo.

While the play takes place  in Troy and Rose's backyard near a humble home
exterior, the film travels inside. Shooting in a small house in  was tricky, but
gave Davis more character insight.

"How tight the house was, how claustrophobic -- you have to have a lot of love
living in a house like that with a very big man," says Davis. "What it feels
like is the tightness of your choices. Especially for a 1957 African-American
(woman). It's like feeling trapped by your life, trapped by the possibilities of
your life. But at the same time forced to be together."

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Paramount

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             229 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

How to get most out of your holiday gifts

BYLINE: Jennifer Jolly | @JenniferJolly | Special for USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 995 words


The biggest gift-giving days of the year packed your pockets with all the latest
gadgets and gizmos. Now what? Here are some tips to get the most mileage from
your new tech toys.

Update, update, update!

No matter what digital device you found under the tree, there's a good chance
it's not fully up to date with the latest software and security features. Grab
that shiny new phone, laptop, tablet, or camera and head into the settings menu
in search of the latest update. Some gadgets, like phones and computers,
automatically alert you when a new update is available, but not always, so it
pays to double check.

Never buy batteries

This habit is a hard one to break, but it'll pay off in the long run. Toss those
disposable coppertops and go the rechargeable route. Six or seven years ago when
they first hit the market, rechargeable batteries were way too expensive to
consider as an option. That has changed. You can score a 16-pack of these
never-say-die batteries for $25.99 on Amazon, and recharging them is as simple
as plugging them into cheap charging dock.

Forget your password

That new smartphone or tablet you have on the coffee table probably has more app
logins than you expected, so keep privacy and security top of mind and take the
time to install a password manager like 1Password or LastPass. These handy
little tools keep all your passwords safe and encrypted and auto-fills them
whenever you need, so you don't have to memorize a dozen different combinations
just to keep hackers at bay. Both are free to try, and premium plans are as
little as $1 per month, which is a small price to pay for the ultimate safety
net.

Google it

Don't let a malfunctioning gadget or impossible-Bluetooth-pairing get you down.
If you're having any issues with a digital device, from an iPhone to an electric
grill, Google is your friend. Everyone is quick to call tech support, but what
makes Google so great is that if you're having a problem right now, there's a
good chance someone else already had that problem before and figured out how to
fix it and is ready to help you do the same. Simple Google searches like
"program universal remote" or "iPad won't connect to Wi-Fi" instantly gives you
multiple sources to fast-track your fix, and you won't have to wait on hold or
in line at an Apple store for a solution.

And now, to 2017...

Tech never sleeps, and it won't be long before we have a whole new rush of
gadgets battling each other for a chance to end up in your home. Here are some
of the biggest tech products and trends on the horizon to give you a taste for
what's in store in 2017:

A big year for Apple

After a lackluster 2016, Apple is going to pull out all the stops to make 2017
one to remember. The iPhone 8 will be the biggest change in years, and there's
lots of insider info that says the new iPhone will have a super sharp OLED,
curved glass and even a hidden home button integrated right into the display. On
the computer front, Apple updated the MacBook Pro this fall, but a lot of the
other Macs are still waiting to get their own time to shine. Expect a big Apple
event early in 2017 with all-new updates for the iMac and hopefully a new Mac
Mini, MacBook Air and lots of other Apple goodies.

Virtual reality grows up

Microsoft is about to roll out new Windows 10 VR headsets from different
manufacturers. The new gadgets are expected to start at around $299, much
cheaper than the HTC Vive and Oculus Rift. So if you haven't taken the VR plunge
yet, it's about to be downright irresistible.

Amazon's big gamble

To compete with Netflix, Amazon is already beefing up its streaming video
service with a ton of original content, such as Transparent and Man In The High
Castle. Expect Amazon to push this into overdrive in 2017. And let's not forget
about Alexa, Amazon's do-it-all virtual assistant that runs the Echo and other
gadgets. Amazon has hinted Alexa will play an even bigger role in smart home
gadgets coming soon.

Do or die for smart homes

Speaking of smart home tech, it's not just Amazon that's knocking at your door;
Apple, Google, and plenty of other companies are making a big push to outfit
your house with tech. By the end of the year we'll know whether "smart"
appliances and assistants are really all they're cracked up to be, or if the
entire industry needs a massive reboot.

Hit the road

Things are also heating up in the smart car market, and it's moving faster than
ever. With smart car add-ons that turn any vehicle into a wise road warrior,
it's clear there's plenty of interest. Now it's up to automakers to integrate
the tech. Several cities are already passing autonomous driving laws and
regulations, and even if your car doesn't drive itself by the end of 2017, it's
probably going to be a lot smarter than it is today.

Nintendo Switch

Nintendo's new game system is half home console, half handheld gaming
powerhouse, and it's like nothing anyone has seen before. Nintendo is promising
beloved game characters such as Zelda and Mario will grace the system early on,
and if you can take it with you on the bus and still play it on your big TV at
home, expect the Switch to be a huge hit when it lands in March.

Samsung Galaxy S8

Samsung really needs to knock a new smartphone out of the park after the
exploding Note 7 drama, which made headlines, and the S8 is already sounding
like it'll be a huge milestone. Lots of rumors are swirling that the phone will
have a bezel-free display, so the screen stretches from edge to edge. It sounds
awesome, and Samsung is expected to go all out with a huge launch early in the
year.

Xbox Project Scorpio

Gaming fans, get excited, because Microsoft's super-powerful new game console is
just around the corner, too. The new Xbox is expected to be much more capable
than the Xbox One, and with full 4K support and HDR, the games will look sharp.
Microsoft has been teasing this one for a while, and while there's no official
release date, you can expect to hear much more about it as 2017 gets underway.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Google

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             230 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Ugly sweaters are big biz;
The more garish the better as these holiday specials are flying off the shelves

BYLINE: Mary Bowerman, @MaryBowerman, USA TODAY Network

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 527 words


From the depths of grandma's closet to the shelves of major retailers, the
deliberately "ugly Christmas sweater" is turning into big business.

Whether it's a sweater depicting a knit Darth Vader wearing a neck scarf or a
cheery "Chillin' with my Snowmies" pullover, the more outrageous, the better.
Major chains such as Target, Sears and Walmart report they have been offering
wider assortments every year.

"Since Halloween, customer interest in ugly Christmas sweaters has exploded,"
said Walmart spokeswoman Meggan Kring, adding that searches on Walmart's site
peaked in the second week in November.

Now, she says many items are sold out, though they're replacing inventory with
other ugly sweater options. Sears says it has sold out of some of its worst --
or best, depending on how you look at it -- holiday sweaters.

Target offered a two-person sweater this year, and one of their top selling
items was an ugly sweater dress that looks a little like "Mrs. Claus'
gingerbread dress," according to spokeswoman Jessica Carlson.

"Hanukkah themed sweaters have also been popular over the past couple years. So
it's not just Christmas -- it's across all of the holiday celebrations," she
said.

Sears spokesman Mitchell Lee said consumers want the most garish sweater items
available for their "Ugly Christmas Sweater" parties or picture days at work.

"Success comes from how fun the sweaters can be and whose is the most outrageous
... or, I suppose, "ugliest.'" Lee says.

Shortages of  the worst is leaving some holiday celebrants scrambling. On
Twitter, many shared stories of their fruitless searches for the perfect ugly
Christmas sweaters.

"I looked all over for an ugly Christmas sweater today, and every place was sold
out," tweeted @RickyyLopezz this week.

For decades, ugly Christmas sweaters were considered white elephants foisted on
the unsuspecting by grandmothers or others with the best of intentions.

They started taking on a life of their own a few years ago when some revelers
started deliberately seeking out the over-the-top items from thrift stores or
garage sales.

At the time, no one would have suspected they would become such hot-ticket
apparel at major retailers.

Target has carried "ugly or festive holiday sweaters" in its inventory since
2013, according Target's Carlson. "It has certainly been a product that people
have wanted and increasingly each year come back to Target to buy."

Carlson said Target had seen double-digit growth in its festive and ugly
Christmas sweater merchandise compared to last year.

It's becoming increasingly clear that the ugly Christmas sweater is having its
"pet rock" moment, Mark Cohen, a Columbia Business School professor, referring
to a 1970s fad that has become a symbol of the ultimate useless gift.

"It's the perfect gift for someone you feel you must buy something for, but who
has everything," he said, adding  that  the business appears to be getting
bigger this year.

As for the sweater craze, it's not just traditional retailers that are cashing
in. Fred Hajjar, president of UglyChristmasSweater.com, said his team went from
$40,000 in ugly Christmas sweater sales in 2012, to almost $5million last year.


LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             231 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Syrian military retakes total control of Aleppo;
Army claims rebels are gone, stability is restored in key city

BYLINE: John Bacon, @jmbacon, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 513 words


The last "remnants" of rebels and their supporters have been evacuated from
eastern Aleppo, and the government has regained full control of the embattled
city, the Syrian military said Thursday.

The army issued a statement announcing "restoration of security and stability to
Aleppo after liberating it from terrorism and terrorists," the state-run Syrian
Arab News Agency said.

Western Aleppo erupted in celebratory gunfire, and Syrian TV showed soldiers and
civilians shouting, "Aleppo, Aleppo!" and "God, Syria and Bashar only," the
Associated Press reported.

This week, the United Nations Security Council approved a plan to send U.N.
monitors to oversee the evacuations. The operation, aided by the International
Red Cross, took place in fits and starts as both sides squabbled over security
concerns while sometimes blizzard-like weather further hampered the effort.

Aleppo is under full government control for the first time since rebels took
command of eastern parts of the city in 2012. Turkey and the West backed a
hodgepodge of rebel groups, while Russia and Iran backed the government of
Bashar Assad.

In Washington, State Department spokesman John Kirby said the events in Aleppo
don't mean the war is over, adding that the Assad regime bears responsibility
for the wasteland the once-vibrant city has become.

"It wasn't the opposition that bombed hospitals and schools and first responders
as they rushed to save people," Kirby said. "It was the regime and its backers."

Recapturing the last holdout enclaves marks Assad's biggest victory in the
6-year-old civil war, and it was not clear what path remained for rebel forces.

About 500,000 people have died, and millions have fled.

Ahmad al-Khatib, an opposition activist who left Aleppo before the siege, said
the city's fall was a date "we'll never forget and we will never forgive,"
according to the AP. "Let the world bear witness that Bashar Assad has killed
and displaced and destroyed Aleppo, and he celebrates in his victory over the
blood and offspring of Aleppo ... with the agreement of the Arab and Western
nations," he tweeted.

Assad called the liberation of Aleppo a victory not just for Syria but for all
nations contributing to the fight against terrorism, particularly Iran and
Russia.

"It is also a relapse for all the countries that are hostile toward the Syrian
people and that have used terrorism as a means to realize their interests,"
Assad said.

More than 35,000 rebels and civilians have fled former rebel-held enclaves in
eastern Aleppo since last week, the United Nations said. The evacuation of the
last patients from hospitals in the area was finalized Wednesday.

The evacuations may have concluded a siege of the city that prompted a severe
humanitarian crisis. The tide of the struggle began to turn last year when
Russia stepped up air assaults in support of Assad's troops.

All sides have expressed agreement that any final solution must be political,
not military. Assad has vowed that any solution that strips him of power is off
the table. His battlefield victories have strengthened his hand.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo OMAR HAJ KADOUR, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             232 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Girls making their presence felt on gridiron

BYLINE: Cam Smith and Josh Barnett, @camsmithsports, @ByJoshBarnett, USA TODAY
Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 455 words


A different type of lineman will be competing in the California Classic all-star
game, and it has nothing to do with stats or stars from recruiting services. It
has to do with gender.

Centennial (Compton) offensive guard and defensive tackle Eriana Pula is the
first girl to be selected to the game, according to the Los Angeles Times. The
classic will be Jan. 15 in Pomona.

The 5-10, 250-pound senior is a starter on both lines for her school, and she is
also a star in the classroom with a 4.3 grade-point average.

"I did not know when I scouted her that she was a girl," Plays and Grades scout
Kevin Steele, one of the selectors, told KABC-TV. "I didn't see that. I did not
know that. She's a good player."

Pula's selection follows a run of accomplishments for girls playing high school
football this fall.

Emma Baker of Rancho Christian (Temecula, Calif.) became the first girl to score
a point in a California state football championship game, kicking a field goal
and making all five of her extra-point attempts. Rancho Christian beat Amador
(Sutter Creek) 38-13 for the Division 6-AA championship. She set the national
season record for kicking points by a girl with 99, according to the The
(Riverside) Press Enterprise.

Kicker Jenna Cuff from Terrell Academy (Dawson, Ga.) became the first girl
selected to the Georgia Independent Schools Association's all-state team for
Class AA. Cuff was a key cog for a team that went 7-5 and reached the Class AA
state semifinals.

Felicia Perez, a 4-8 dynamo, played middle linebacker and fullback for
Brandywine in Delaware, becoming among the first girls in the state to play
those positions. "I like to be the dominant person," Perez said. "Other females
follow other females. I'm not a follower. I'm a leader. So I decided I was going
to play a predominantly male sport."

The accomplishments come at a time when girls playing tackle football is on the
rise. A record 1,964 girls took part in 11-player football during the 2015-16
academic year, according to the annual National Federation of State High School
Associations' participation survey. That was up from 1,565 the year before.

The increase in girls is what led to an overall bump in the number of athletes
participating in the sport by 80 to 1,085,272. Twenty-four states reported
increased boys participation.

Thirty-two states had girls participating in football in 2015-16, according to
the survey. California had the most with 333, followed by Ohio (245), Texas
(178), Arizona (115) and Colorado (109).

For Pula, the California Classic will be her final football game. She has
decided to forgo efforts to play in college.

"A lot of people doubted it, but once they saw I could do it, it was like, 'Put
her in,'" she told KABC-TV.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo The (Wilmington, Del.) News Journal

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             233 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Medicaid poses test for states trying new health care options;
Hospitals, patients face struggles amid Obamacare upheaval

BYLINE: Jayne O'Donnell, @jayneodonnell, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 1469 words


Blocked sweat glands turn into searingly painful growths that send Brittany
Young back to the emergency room at Upson Regional Medical Center.

Young also has the chronic intestinal disease Crohn's to contend with. Without a
job or health insurance, the single mother can't get the treatment needed to
keep her Crohn's from progressing. She's visited the ER six times since losing
her Medicaid coverage after her baby was born in June. Young says she has no
money, so she pays nothing.

"I guess someone ran the numbers and figured out it saves money to do it this
way," says Anthony Marchetti, an Upson emergency physician.

If they have, they haven't quantified the pain faced by people including Young
or the plight of rural hospitals such as Upson that are required to at least
stabilize everyone who walks in the door, regardless of their ability to pay.
Republican Georgia Gov. Nathan Deal's decision not to expand Medicaid coverage
to those under 138% of the federal poverty limit -- as allowed and funded almost
entirely by the Affordable Care Act (ACA) -- left patients and hospitals in this
and 18 other states in precarious situations.

Hospitals shuttered

At least 80 hospitals have closed nationally since 2010, according to the North
Carolina Rural Health Research Program. In that time, six hospitals have closed
in Georgia and about 10 more are teetering, says Jimmy Lewis, CEO of the rural
hospital group Hometown Health.

Republican control of the White House and Congress next year opens the door to
new approaches to health care financing that could turn states into the
"laboratories of democracy" the liberal Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis
wrote they should be in 1932. Congressional leaders and President-elect Donald
Trump vowed to repeal the ACA early next year, which would probably remove
funding for Medicaid expansion and the financial assistance others need to buy
Obamacare plans. That could leave about 20 million people without health
coverage.

If the ACA repeal legislation includes the expected built-in delay, Kaiser
Family Foundation Executive Vice President Diane Rowland predicts states will
propose more waivers from Medicaid expansion's requirements in advance of the
fixed "block grants" likely to be proposed by the new administration.

ACA supporters worry that could expose hospitals and patients to erratic funding
and dangerous lapses in care. The patchwork quilt effect of Medicaid expansion
has already meant people with the same health conditions across state borders
may get good care or no care.

When it comes to the block grants, "some claim it creates flexibility," Health
and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell said Wednesday. "The downside ... is
when it limits the money that can go to the state."

That can leave states with three choices, she said: kicking people off Medicaid,
cutting benefits and finding the money in their own budgets.

Many Republican ACA opponents say the funding and decisions about what to do
with it needs to be further distanced from Washington.

"It's important to just not jam a specific idea down a community's throat," says
Geoff Duncan, a Republican state representative from an Atlanta suburb. "You've
got to have a more community-focused approach to solving health care problems."

Duncan, who may run for governor in 2018, sponsored a potential solution that
takes effect Jan.1.

The new law will allow businesses and residents to make donations to eligible
rural hospitals and claim a state tax credit equal to 70% of the donation. It's
part of the alternative to big government that Duncan likes to call the four C's
-- churches, charities, corporations and citizens.

To longtime rural hospital lobbyist Lewis, the law is a godsend. The day after
Duncan introduced his bill, Lewis introduced himself to the 41-year-old
legislator and said, "I've been waiting for an idea like this to show up at the
Capitol for the last 30 years," Duncan recalled.

Former HHS official Hilary Haycock isn't so hopeful.

"It's an incredibly unstable way to fund health care for low-income
populations," says Haycock, president of Harbage Consulting. "The whole
challenge of the economic cycle is that during periods of economic recession,
there's the greatest need to support the most vulnerable."

It may not be the "perfect fix," but Duncan says his plan "creates a much needed
conversation."

The next step, he says, may be to bolster and link the network of community
health centers to hospitals, so low-income patients get more regular care and
the burden on hospitals is eased.

It's the kind of thinking likely to appeal to states if Medicaid block grants or
per-person expenditures become the Trump administration's approach.

Seema Verma, Trump's nominee to head the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services, designed Indiana's tough-minded variation on Medicaid expansion, which
has what Rowland calls "most stringent requirements for gaining and maintaining
coverage."

Haycock says, "We'll certainly have the opportunity to experiment."

What Americans will probably see more of:

Cost sharing. Those eligible for Medicaid through the ACA expansion in Indiana
owe 2% of their incomes or $1 in monthly premiums if they earn less than $50 a
month. The money goes into a type of "health savings account" like those offered
by employers. Some other states also require small premiums and co-payments.

Work requirements. No state is allowed to require people to work to get Medicaid
benefits under the ACA's expansion of the program, but Indiana can refer
recipients to resources to help them find and train for jobs.

Fewer rides. Covered transportation for non-emergencies could be eliminated, as
it has been in several states with waivers.

More care coordination. Obamacare may get a lot of flak from its namesake's
opponents, but its broad mission of lowering health care costs by improving
quality over quantity is likely to survive. Sliding-scale community health
clinics were supposed to be largely unnecessary once the ACA got everyone signed
up for insurance, but that's not the case while millions are still uninsured.

Remote suffering

Duncan had never been to a rural hospital when he pulled up, tears in his eyes,
to the one here this month.

Seeing the full parking lot, the state representative was emotional because of
what could happen to everyone's health if a hospital such as Upson were to
close.

Duncan said he kept hearing about the plight of rural hospitals during
legislative meetings and was prompted to act.

He says, "I can't go a single day without getting a call" from someone in
another state inquiring about the new way of funding health care. He modeled it
on a program to fund private school scholarships with income tax credits.

Duncan didn't know much about the quality of community health centers. Or that
people with "real insurance" could use them, he says.

Soon they will have 11 "real doctors," Shifflet laughs.

"We could expand the footprint of these in a way that doesn't compete with the
hospitals but helps to reinforce them and open up access," Duncan said during a
recent visit to the center.

"Maybe you could incentivize those kinds of partnerships to jump-start it,"
Shifflet said.

Back in Upson, hospital CEO Tripp Penn won't comment on Medicaid eligibility in
his state but says he's in favor of "expanded access" to health care.

Though Brittany Young has visited the ER an average of once a month since June,
Penn has uninsured patients who have visited an average of nearly once a week.

"They don't have the very basic primary care that's much less expensive and a
much more appropriate level of care," he says.

Young, 23, had Medicaid coverage until she was 18, was uninsured until she got
pregnant last year, then lost the coverage when the baby was born. She hopes to
get a job in retail or fast food, which she says are about her only choices
because she didn't finish high school.

Without regular treatment to keep her Crohn's disease from progressing, ER
physician Marchetti says, Young is at risk of complications that include
abscesses and obstructions that can require emergency surgery.

Uninsured patients with congestive heart failure or emphysema can turn
preventable cases into ones involving several nights in the intensive care unit,
because they often "wait until they are at death's door" to come in, Marchetti
says. Patients sometimes arrive "unresponsive and gurgling" and need breathing
tubes right in the hallway, he says.

Upson always manages to at least break even, but its fourth floor has been
closed for four years, and the maternity ward needs upgrades to stay
competitive. Penn plans to renovate the labor and delivery area with any money
raised thanks to Duncan's law, and the fourth floor will become a geriatric
psychiatric ward through a grant from a state program designed to stabilize
rural hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jayne O'Donnell, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             234 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Trump calls for more nukes;
He says U.S. must expand until world 'comes to its senses'

BYLINE: Tom Vanden Brook, @tvandenbrook, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 407 words


President-elect Donald Trump decried the state of the nation's nuclear arsenal
Thursday, saying in a tweet that it had to be strengthened "greatly" during
uncertain times.

"The United States must greatly strengthen and expand its nuclear capability
until such time as the world comes to its senses regarding nukes," he tweeted.

Trump made his remarks a day after receiving a national security briefing from a
group of mostly senior military officers, including Air Force Lt. Gen. Jack
Weinstein, deputy chief of staff for strategic deterrence and nuclear
integration.

A nuclear arms reduction expert reacted with alarm to Trump's tweet. Joseph
Cirincione, president of the Ploughshares Fund, said similar statements by
Russian President Vladimir Putin could trigger a destabilizing nuclear arms
race.

The United States and Russia have 95% of the world's nuclear weapons, but
smaller nuclear powers, such as China, North Korea, India and Pakistan, may view
their statements as a call to bolster their own arsenals, he said.

"If the two guys with the biggest arsenals are talking about expanding, they're
sending a message ... that it's time to start their engines," Cirincione said.

An alternative, he said, would be for Trump and Putin to establish a
relationship in which arms reduction is a centerpiece. "He could assure his
place in the history books with the deal of a lifetime," Cirincione said.

In its 2017 budget, the Pentagon has several initiatives designed to modernize
its nuclear arsenal.

Among them is a $2.1 billion program to develop a radar-evading, long-range
bomber.

In a report in 2015, the Congressional Budget Office estimated that Obama
administration plans to modernize nuclear forces would cost nearly $350 billion
over 10 years.

Gen. David Goldfein, the Air Force chief of staff, has emphasized the importance
of the service's nuclear mission during a trip this week to U.S. air bases. He
said the Air Force's top priority is maintaining a safe, secure and effective
nuclear enterprise.

The world has seen a dramatic reduction in the number of nuclear weapons in the
past 25 years, Pentagon records show.

Since 1991, Pentagon data show, more than 7,600 nuclear warheads have been
deactivated, while the United States, Russia and former Soviet republics have
destroyed more than 3,600 missiles and launchers, 33 submarines, 155 bombers,
more than 1.6 million chemical munitions and more than 4,000 metric tons of
chemical weapons.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             235 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Cowboys' Elliott out in front for MVP;
Panel places Brady, Ryan close behind

BYLINE: Tom Pelissero, tpelissero@usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 1083 words


If the national panel that selects the NFL's recognized Most Valuable Player
award is seeing this season the same way as the league's top evaluators, the
upcoming vote is going to be divided -- and could potentially produce a rare
rookie winner.

Dallas Cowboys running back Ezekiel Elliott was the MVP pick this week in a USA
TODAY Sports poll of high-ranking executives representing 12 NFL teams, who
discussed their votes on the condition of anonymity because they're not allowed
to comment publicly about other teams' players.

In the USA TODAY Sports poll, Elliott received five votes. New England Patriots
quarterback Tom Brady received three, Atlanta Falcons quarterback Matt Ryan two
and Oakland Raiders quarterback Derek Carr one. The other vote was split among
Brady, Carr and Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers.

That's not overwhelming support for Elliott. Those making the case against him
point out he's running behind the NFL's best offensive line, is surrounded by
passing-game weapons that can give him favorable matchups and arguably isn't
even the most impressive rookie on his team, with quarterback Dak Prescott
playing a more challenging position at a high level.

But those who back Elliott make a strong case, too. His 1,551 rushing yards are
327 more than the next closest player. Nobody has more runs of 20-plus yards
(13). He's averaging 5 yards a carry, has scored 14 total touchdowns and is the
driving force behind the Cowboys' turnaround from 4-12 last season to 12-2, in
line for the No.1 seed with two games to play.

"He's changed their team," one NFL general manager told USA TODAY Sports.
"They've had that offensive line for a couple years now. He's come in there and
dominated games. He's running over people and smashing people. He's a dominant
force."

Said another GM: "People are rare when they have that size and speed, and then
he has the intangibles. He knows when to hit the hole hard. He knows when to
slow down for a certain block, and then he's got the burst to accelerate
through. He's going to be one of the top backs ever. Dallas can lose three
offensive starting linemen and he would still be successful."

Fifty media members (I'm one of them) will vote by Jan.4 for awards given out by
the Associated Press, which began awarding the MVP in 1961 and has never given
it to a rookie. (Cleveland Browns fullback Jim Brown did win what was then
called NFL Player of the Year in his rookie year in 1957.) The NFL recognizes
the AP's MVP and other seven awards, which will be revealed at the NFL Honors
event Feb. 4, the night before Super Bowl LI in Houston.

There's still time for some things to change, of course. Brady, a two-time MVP,
has been playing catchup since his four-game Deflategate suspension expired. He
has made the most of it, passing for 3,064 yards and 22 TDs with two
interceptions as the Patriots have won nine of 10 games to wrap up a record
eighth consecutive AFC East title.

"His numbers, touchdown-to-pick ratio -- who does that? If you're talking about
the 'most valuable player,' he's it," said a GM who voted for Brady. "Ezekiel
will get his at some point, but you've got three all-pros blocking for you,
you've got a quarterback that's (playing well) -- that makes it easy living as a
back."

One hole many poke in Brady's case is that the Patriots went 3-1 without him.
But Brady keeps winning with less around him on offense than Elliott -- a task
that got tougher when Patriots all-pro tight end Rob Gronkowski had
season-ending back surgery a few weeks ago.

Ryan is having by far his best season (32 TD passes, seven INTs, 114.8 passer
rating) and has overcome his own challenges. Star receiver Julio Jones missed
the past two games and the Falcons still scored 83 points total in two blowout
wins to stay atop the NFC South.

Carr has spearheaded the Raiders' run to their first playoff berth since 2002.
Rodgers, another two-time MVP, has been spectacular in the Packers' four-game
winning streak, which has given them a shot to rally from a 4-6 start for the
NFC North title.

This could be the first MVP ballot in which nobody gets a majority since Shaun
Alexander won with 19 of 50 votes 11 years ago. (Carolina Panthers quarterback
Cam Newton, who held a big edge in last year's USA TODAY Sports poll of NFL
executives, won the MVP with 48 votes.)

There's really no wrong choice. But considering it's been almost six decades
since a rookie was voted the NFL's top player and a running back has won MVP
just once (Adrian Peterson in 2012) since Alexander and LaDainian Tomlinson
went-back-to-back in 2005 and '06, perhaps the most notable aspect of this race
is so many keen eyes think Elliott is the right choice.

The executives also weighed in on some other major awards.

Defensive player of the year: It's basically a two-man race between Denver
Broncos linebacker Von Miller and Raiders edge player Khalil Mack. Miller might
be the NFL's toughest one-on-one matchup, but Mack's consistency and all-around
play gave him the edge in the USA TODAY Sports poll. The third name that came up
most: New York Giants safety Landon Collins.

Rookie of the year: Elliott is the logical winner on offense, but four votes in
our poll went to Prescott, whose poise has defined his remarkable season. On
defense, San Diego Chargers end Joey Bosa gets the nod over the likes of Kansas
City Chiefs defensive lineman Chris Jones and Jacksonville Jaguars cornerback
Jalen Ramsey.

Coach of the year: Oakland's Jack Del Rio and Kansas City's Andy Reid are
basically co-front-runners, which sets up an interesting debate: Should more
weight be given to the Chiefs sweeping the season series with their AFC West
counterparts? Or the Raiders (potentially) winning the division? Others
receiving votes in our poll included Mike Mularkey of the Tennessee Titans, New
England's Bill Belichick and Dallas' Jason Garrett, who has a compelling case
... but a dark-horse candidate, first-year Giants coach Ben McAdoo, beat the
Cowboys twice.

Executive of the year: This isn't an official AP award. (The Sporting News and
the Pro Football Writers Association, among others, give one out.) But the
strong consensus among his peers is it should go to Raiders GM Reggie McKenzie,
who has overhauled the roster and fixed a bad salary-cap situation over the past
five years. His 2014 draft, headed by Mack and Carr, could go down as one of the
all-time greats. Others getting votes included Titans GM Jon Robinson and the
Cowboys' brain trust, led by owner Jerry Jones.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Stew Milne, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             236 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

The playlist

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 295 words


Country singer Chris Young is ringing in the holiday season with two big
accomplishments: his first holiday album, It Must Be Christmas, featuring guest

appearances by Brad Paisley, Boyz II Men and Alan Jackson; and a Grammy
nomination for Best Country Duo/Group

Performance, for his song Think of You with Cassadee Pope. Young closes out 2016
by sharing a

playlist of Christmas favorites with USA TODAY.

Santa Looked A Lot Like DaddyBrad Paisley

I have had a blast touring with Brad and also getting to work with him on my own
Christmas record. He NAILS this one!

Christmas Eve (Sarajevo)Trans Siberian Orchestra

This is one of my favorite instrumentals, especially during the Christmas
season! I love this song.

I Only Want You For ChristmasAlan Jackson

This album is one of my all-time favorites, and when it comes to an original
Christmas song this one's amazing.

White ChristmasBing Crosby

A true classic. This song is a must-listen every year.

It Wouldn't Be Christmas Without You/Brooks & Dunn

Definitely a song tinged with sorrow, but what an amazing vocal/song!

Little Saint NickThe Beach Boys

One of my favorite Christmas albums as a whole. This entire record is
phenomenal, but this tune is a standout!

Rockin' Around The Christmas TreeBrenda Lee

You have to love Brenda Lee. You have to! And this song is so much fun to sing
along with!

Blue ChristmasElvis Presley

Being on RCA for  10 years I definitely have respect for the history of my
label, and you can't talk about RCA without mentioning Elvis!

Honky Tonk ChristmasAlan Jackson

This is the title track and also a song that is so much fun! Truly a
country/Christmas classic.

I Want a Hippopotamus for ChristmasGayla Peevey

This is my niece's favorite Christmas song. Listen at your own risk ... it WILL
get stuck in your head.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jeff Johnson

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             237 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Disney drones on for holidays

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 242 words


Drones are being used for aerial photography and video, but there's another
application for the lightweight, unmanned flying devices that you might not have
considered: entertainment. It will probably be a few years before an Amazon
drone delivers to your door, but at Disney World the future for drone
entertainment is now.

On Nov. 16, the resort introduced Starbright Holidays, an aerial light show
featuring a fleet of 300 drones. Unlike nighttime shows that incorporate
two-dimensional projections, drone-based objects can have a sense of depth. And
unlike fireworks, the drones can maintain their luminosity and integrity.

The presentation begins with a few bars of When You Wish Upon a Star, followed
by the appearance of twinkling lights above you in the night sky. Holiday
favorites such as We Wish You a Merry Christmas and O Christmas Tree play as the
drones re-form and light, a few at a time, into the unmistakable shape of a
Christmas tree.

Intel's Shooting Star drones are made of Styrofoam and plastic and weigh a
little more than half a pound. They are outfitted with LED lights that are
capable of over 4 billion color combinations.

The drone show is being presented twice nightly, at 7 and 8:30, through Jan. 8
over the lagoon between Disney Springs (previously known as Downtown Disney) and
Disney's Saratoga Springs hotel. Admission as well as parking is free at Disney
Springs, and the show is complimentary for all guests.

Arthur Levine

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Matt Stroshane, Disney

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             238 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Travel hits new heights

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 189 words


This year's holiday travel season is expected to lift U.S. airlines and the
world's busiest airport to new heights.

U.S. airlines expect a 3.5% boost in December holiday travelers, capping a year
when the number of  passengers is projected to surpass 800 million for the first
time.

"We are on track to eclipse last year's all-time high," John Heimlich, chief
economist for the trade group Airlines for America, told USA TODAY. "This
holiday push will be the final frontier."

Last year was the first time since the Great Recession that airlines carried
more passengers than in 2007. Airlines are expecting 45.2 million passengers
from Dec. 16 through Jan. 5, according to the group, with an average 73,000 more
passengers each day during the holiday period.

Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport, the world's busiest, is also
poised to break the record it set in 2015. Buoyed by a surge of more than
4million fliers during the end-of-year holiday window, Atlanta airport officials
say  "if projections hold," it will top the tally of 101.4million passengers
that passed through its terminals last year.

Bart Jansen, Ben Mutzabaugh

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo David Goldman, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             239 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Mortgage rates hit highest levels since 2014

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 206 words


Mortgage rates hit highest levels since 2014

Mortgage giant Freddie Mac  reported the rate on 30-year fixed-rate loans jumped
to an average 4.30%, up from 4.16% last week and the highest since April 2014.
The average rate for a 15-year mortgage rose to 3.52% from 3.37%,  highest since
January 2014. Rates have surged since the Nov. 8 election of Donald Trump.

Tentative settlement in Ikea furniture fatalities

Sweden-based home furnishings giant Ikea says a tentative deal has been reached
in a case involving three U.S. families whose children died after chests and
dressers made by Ikea toppled on them. Philadelphia-based law firm Feldman,
Shepherd, Wohlgelernter, Tanner, Weinstock & Dodig, which represented the
families, announced a $50 million settlement with the company.

Uber shifts  to Arizona

Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey welcomed Uber's self-driving pilot program "with open
arms" one day after the California Department of Motor Vehicles moved to revoke
the vehicles' registrations. Uber began testing 16 self-driving vehicles in San
Francisco this month. State regulators ordered the cars off the road until the
company obtained a permit. Uber claimed it did not need a permit because the
cars do not continuously drive themselves.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             240 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Hidden Figures' stars, story reach great heights;
This space-race drama has powerful civil rights message

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 535 words


It takes the combined power of Taraji P. Henson, Octavia Spencer and Janelle
Monáe to make math a joy like it never was in high school.

There are numbers and geometric shapes aplenty  in the engaging and feel-good
period drama Hidden Figures (***1/2 out of four; rated PG; in theaters Friday),
but also a wealth of excellent performances and a variety of important stories.

There's a civil rights battle revolving around three 1960s NASA mathematicians
having to prove their worth in an era of overwhelming racial and gender
inequality, plus a Space Race thriller as America tries to compete with the
Soviets by blasting someone into the cosmos ASAP. And for the most part,
director Theodore Melfi (St. Vincent) and Allison Schroeder have written a
screenplay based on Margot Lee Shetterly's book that weaves them together well
and creates some needed third-act tension.

The only downside is that we don't get enough of the three main actresses
together.  It's those moments where their characters are driving home or gabbing
at a church function when Hidden Figures really sparkles.

Henson stars as Katherine Goble Johnson, a child math prodigy whose genius goes
unnoticed at the Langley Science Center until she ends up in the NASA science
group tasked with getting John Glenn (Glen Powell) and other astronauts to and
from space safely. She's stuck dealing with unfriendly nerdy white guys such as
Jim Parsons' condescending Paul Stafford.  However, head honcho Al Harrison
(Kevin Costner)  sees her potential.

Katherine's friends have their own obstacles to greatness. Young Mary Jackson
(Monáe) is respected by the major-league scientist types at NASA, though she is
forced to petition the state of Virginia just to be able to take classes at an
all-white school as the next step to becoming an engineer. And Dorothy Vaughan
(Spencer) is the elder stateswoman of their group who is wholly tired of having
a supervisor's responsibilities but not the salary.

Spencer is consistently solid as usual, and Henson gives Katherine a shy, demure
nature yet also a true fire when she's had enough with the prejudiced
establishment. Costner adds to his long list of gruff but goodhearted men's men,
while the film could have used more of Powell, impressive in limited action as
the astronaut whose 1962 orbits grabbed the nation's attention.

The film's big breakout is Monáe, the Grammy-winning musician who impressed in a
small role in Moonlight but showcases a wealth of talent as the youngest and
most opinionated of the three main women. Mary is both genius and social
activist, and her personality reflects a generation's aggressive movement toward
real change in the '60s.

The situations of racism and unequal pay are  timely: Katherine and her friends
garner  police attention when they have car trouble, Dorothy and her children
are kicked out of a library  for being black, and Dorothy is  continually at
odds about her financial situation with her boss (Kirsten Dunst). Helping lift
the  mood and the movie's momentum are Pharrell Williams'  songs.

Adding social issues to its  inspirational themes, Hidden Figures equals one
satisfying slice of history that'll entertain adults as well as kids looking to
the stars.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Hopper Stone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             241 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Five fab Christmas Day games;
Kobe, Shaq stand out in fond memories

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 377 words


New Jersey Nets at New York Knicks (1984)

In what still stands as the greatest individual scoring performance, Hall of
Fame forward Bernard King scored 60 points on 19-for-30 shooting, grabbed seven
rebounds and tallied four assists, but it wasn't enough to get the win at
Madison Square Garden, as the Knicks fell to the Nets 120-114. King became the
third player in NBA history to score at least 50 points on Christmas Day,
joining Wilt Chamberlain (59 in 1961) and Rick Barry (50 in 1966).

Chicago Bulls at New York Knicks (1986)

Michael Jordan's first Christmas Day appearance (30 points, five assists and six
steals) was spoiled by Patrick Ewing (28points and 17 rebounds), who hit a
fadeaway put-back at the buzzer to give the Knicks an 86-85 victory. Little did
we know that these two teams would end up forming one of the fiercest rivalries
in NBA history for years to come.

Orlando Magic at Houston Rockets (1995)

For the first time in NBA history, the teams from the previous season's Finals
met on Christmas Day. Superstar big men Shaquille O'Neal (22 points, 18 rebounds
and five assists) and Hakeem Olajuwon (30 points, 12 rebounds and six assists)
stole the pregame headlines, but Magic guard Penny Hardaway played the role of
hero, knocking down the eventual game-winning jumper with three seconds
remaining to give the Magic a 92-90 victory.

Miami Heat at Los Angeles Lakers (2004)

For the first time since being dealt to the Heat, O'Neal went toe-to-toe with
Kobe Bryant and a Lakers squad with whom he had spent the previous eight seasons
and won three consecutive championships. O'Neal tallied 24points and 11 rebounds
but fouled out late in the fourth quarter (on a Bryant drive, nonetheless),
while Bryant had 42 points but missed a potential game-winning three at the
buzzer, giving the Heat a 104-102 overtime win.

Boston Celtics at Los Angeles Lakers (2008)

In this best-in-the-East vs. best-in-the-West rematch, the Celtics (27-2)
entered the Staples Center on a 19-game winning streak to match up with the 23-5
Lakers six months after beating them in a six-game Finals series. It was sweet
revenge in Laker Land, as Kobe Bryant scored 27points, grabbed nine rebounds and
dished out five assists to lead L.A. to a 92-83 victory.

A.J. Neuharth-Keusch

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Matt Sayles, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             242 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Tom's Top 10

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 170 words


1. (1) New England Patriots: How hurt is TE Martellus Bennett? Twelve catches
total in last five games.

2. (2) Dallas Cowboys: No worse Pro Bowl snub than LB Sean Lee. He carries that
defense.

3. (4) Oakland Raiders: How will Colts cover Amari Cooper and Michael Crabtree?
Could be ugly.

4. (5) Seattle Seahawks: Have ranked fourth or better in rush yards last four
seasons. This year? 20th.

5. (3) Kansas City Chiefs: Sweeping, eliminating rival Broncos on Christmas
night would be sweet.

6. (6) Atlanta Falcons: No division leader has given rookies more snaps on
offense and defense (3,203).

7. (7) Pittsburgh Steelers: Unlike in Nov. 6 loss to Ravens, there's no rust on
Ben Roethlisberger.

8. (8) New York Giants: Ability to match up on defense would make them a tough
out in January.

9. (9) Baltimore Ravens: Now or never. Loss would seal AFC North crown for
Steelers.

10. (10) Green Bay Packers: Notable as D improves -- safety Ha Ha Clinton-Dix
has been excellent.

*Note: Does not factor in the results of Thursday's game.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             243 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Esparza, others encounter bumps outside octagon;
Rousey's lucrative career exception

BYLINE: Martin Rogers, mjrogers@usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 1158 words


Ronda Rousey and Carla Esparza have plenty in common.

Both broke new ground as the Ultimate Fighting Championship's inaugural
divisional champ, Rousey at bantamweight, Esparza at strawweight. Each lost her
title, via knockout, in 2015. Both will soon return to the octagon.

Yet while Rousey has spent the latter months of this year building a plan to
beat Amanda Nunes at UFC207 on Dec. 30 and what to do with the millions of
dollars she'll receive for her efforts, Esparza has been trying to work out ways
to pay the bills.

Rousey has undoubtedly done great things for women's mixed martial arts. UFC
President Dana White once famously said he would never have women competing in
his organization, and it was the brash, brilliant, mouthy former judo star who
persuaded him otherwise.

Yet while Rousey is among the highest-paid athletes in mixed martial arts, the
reality for many other fighters -- men and women -- is very different.

Over lunch at a health food restaurant here, Esparza, 29, suddenly interrupts
her interview with USA TODAY Sports. A beaming and uplifting smile crosses her
face. A few flurried phone calls and text messages later, it emerges that she
has been tentatively booked to fight in a couple of months.

"Finally," she exclaims excitedly. "Please let this one be for real."

The prospective opponent is a tough one -- there are no easy rides in the UFC --
and a woman whom Esparza doesn't particularly like, but action means money and a
chance to balance the books. She last fought in April, and not fighting means
not getting paid.

It would be no surprise to many that entry-level MMA fighters get little in the
way of meaningful remuneration and sometimes struggle to make ends meet. But
Esparza is neither a rookie nor a bum, far from it.

To win the strawweight belt initially, she had to survive a grueling four-bout
schedule in The Ultimate Fighter tournament, eventually beating current No.4
contender Rose Namajunas to take the title. After losing to dominant champion
Joanna Jedrzejczyk last year, Esparza took time off for shoulder surgery and
defeated Juliana Lima at UFC197. She remains ranked third on the contender list.

And, on a rare overcast day in Southern California at the start of December, she
wrote a check for a property tax payment, took a look at her finances and
realized there was not much left. So she decided to put her Harley-Davidson
motorcycle up for sale, the same motorcycle that was her prize for winning The
Ultimate Fighter.

Coming a day after the launch of an MMA athletes association aimed at pushing
the UFC to offer better conditions and fairer pay, her social media post about
selling the bike gained attention and sympathy.

But for Esparza, a private person who doesn't do self-pity, such a move was
difficult.

"It was just the humiliation of having to put that out there," she says. "Nobody
wants to say they are not doing well. It was super embarrassing.

"A lot of people were very kind and some offered money, but I'm not eating ramen
or starving, so I can't accept that."

Esparza lives a frugal life, by necessity, and any apparent extravagances are
related to her fight preparation. She regularly spends a couple of hundred
dollars on vitamins and supplements and always buys organic food. She is
fortunate to have a sponsorship with a healthy meal service, but doing it right
doesn't come cheap, and she forks out for training equipment, gym memberships
and trips to an Orange County combat sport-specific physical therapist.

She got $60,000 for her last fight, had just under 30% taken out for training
and management fees, and was promptly hit with a $40,000 tax bill from the
previous year, putting her essentially back to square one.

Then began the waiting game, for another fight and another paycheck. As fighters
across the division were booked to compete, Esparza entered December hoping to
hear her name called.

In the meantime, she tried to sell the Harley and raise funds, though even that
got held up when a prospective buyer in the United Kingdom backed out when he
discovered he would have to pay import taxes.

The frustration and the money worries caused Esparza to become deeply
despondent.

"You are at someone's mercy," she says. "They have the power to give you a fight
or to put you on the bench for 10 months. It is scary, and I don't like that
feeling. The stress makes you think, 'Is it even worth it?' There are days when
I am wondering what I am going to do to put food on my table. There have been
times when I am sitting here depressed and crying every day because I can't do
what I love to do and also I can't meet the bills."

Esparza and her manager have pleaded with the UFC to put her in the octagon, to
no avail. As of Thursday, no fight had been formally announced, though the signs
were getting better.

Anyone who enters the business of combat sports should expect a tough road, and
Esparza's situation is far from unique. But it does seem unfair. She doesn't
have a money-sucking crew of hangers-on, doesn't splurge at designer stores --
or any stores -- drives a sensible vehicle and works her butt off.

"Some people, you have to stay on top of them, constantly be making sure they
are putting the work in," said Colin Oyama, head of Team Oyama and Esparza's MMA
coach. "Carla's not like that. She is dedicated, she is hungry, she does what
she is supposed to do. She's a professional. She just needs to fight."

When she publicized her money woes, Esparza caught a smattering of heat online,
with critics referencing how she celebrated winning The Ultimate Fighter by
purchasing a $1,000 limited edition sundae from the Serendipity dessert chain in
New York, which she shared with a friend.

Yet that was an isolated indulgence and was more than two years ago. Recent
purchases have been far more practical. The only thing she bought of
significance since beating Lima was a new, more secure window for her home in
Tustin.

Rousey, meanwhile, who will seek to regain the bantamweight belt after losing to
Holly Holm in November 2015, could have a $1,000 sundae for breakfast every day
if she so desired.

Esparza has nothing but respect for Rousey and accepts that, even with the UFC
having been sold for $4.2 billion, there is not room for everyone to make
superstar money.

"It is Ronda's personality that brings her those type of opportunities," Esparza
said. "You need to have a special type of character and personality to be able
to pull it off in the way that she does.

"But there is not a single fighter in the UFC that doesn't believe all the
fighters should be paid more; that is a given. Some of the fighters are
struggling to survive. Everyone thinks we are great and doing well, but ... "

She trails off, smiles sadly and soon departs, to rest up ahead of more physical
toil. Intense days of preparation lay ahead, peppered by the fear of injury and
the fiscal ramifications that would bring, just part of the reality of life
outside of the UFC's moneyed elite.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Kelvin Kuo, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             244 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Conway tapped as Trump counselor;
RNC spokesman Sean Spicer to get press secretary job

BYLINE: David Jackson, @djusatoday, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 374 words


Donald Trump appointed campaign manager Kellyanne Conway as his White House
counselor on Thursday, and tapped long-time Republican Party spokesman Sean
Spicer as the next White House press secretary.

Conway "has been a trusted adviser and strategist who played a crucial role in
my victory," Trump said in a statement. "She is a tireless and tenacious
advocate of my agenda and has amazing insights on how to effectively communicate
our message."

In addition to giving the spokesman's job to Spicer -- who served as an RNC
liaison to the Trump campaign -- Trump named campaign aides Hope Hicks as White
House director of strategic communications, Jason Miller as communications
director, and Dan Scavino as director of social media.

"Sean, Hope, Jason and Dan have been key members of my team during the campaign
and transition," Trump said. "I am excited they will be leading the team that
will communicate my agenda that will Make America Great Again."

Trump also waded into an Israeli-Palestinian dispute at the United Nations on
Thursday, issuing a statement criticizing a proposed United Nations Security
Council resolution seeking to halt Israeli settlements on land disputed with the
Palestinians.

"As the United States has long maintained, peace between the Israelis and the
Palestinians will only come through direct negotiations between the parties, and
not through the imposition of terms by the United Nations," Trump said. "This
(proposal) puts Israel in a very poor negotiating position and is extremely
unfair to all Israelis."

Trump and aides had talked to Conway about becoming White House press secretary,
but she sought a more advisory position. Some aides had criticized Conway for
making public criticism of secretary of State candidate Mitt Romney, and at one
time Conway talked about taking a job outside the Trump administration, perhaps
with a newly formed pro-Trump political organization.

In thanking the president-elect for an "amazing opportunity" to be presidential
counselor, Conway said that "a Trump presidency will bring real change to
Washington and to Americans across this great nation. I am humbled and honored
to play a role in helping transform the movement he has led into a real agenda
of action and results."

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             245 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Week 16 games

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 1351 words


Minnesota Vikings (7-7)  at Green Bay Packers (8-6)

TV: Saturday, 1 p.m. ET, Fox

Line: Packers by 6

Injury report: Vikings RB Adrian Peterson (knee, groin) hasn't been practicing
the week after his return. Packers QB Aaron Rodgers (calf) will play.

Key to the game: Rodgers absorbed a season-high five sacks in the first meeting,
a 17-14 Vikings victory. Green Bay's offensive line has improved, but with
Rodgers' mobility greatly diminished, a Vikings pass rush that didn't muster a
sack against the Colts' leaky O-line must dominate. Green Bay finished Sunday
with LG Lane Taylor (hip) and RG T.J. Lang (back) hurting.

Tennessee Titans (8-6) at Jacksonville Jaguars (2-12)

TV: Saturday, 1 p.m. ET, CBS

Line: Titans by 41/2

Injury report: Titans CB Jason McCourty (shoulder, chest) is unlikely to play.
Jaguars WR Allen Hurns (hamstring) and CB Aaron Colvin (ankle) are unlikely to
play.

Key to the game: The Jaguars have lost five times this season when leading in
the fourth quarter, tied with the San Diego Chargers for the most such
instances. Especially after last week's theatrics against Kansas City, if the
Titans trail late, never count them out.

New York Jets (4-10)  at New England Patriots (12-2)

TV: Saturday, 1 p.m. ET, CBS

Line: Patriots by 161/2

Injury report: Jets RB Matt Forte (knee, shoulder) is unlikely to play. Patriots
LB Dont'a Hightower (knee) is day-to-day.

Key to the game: Patriots RB Dion Lewis was monitored closely after being
activated from injured reserve five games ago, but he probably will be given the
kind of workload he saw vs. Denver (18 carries, 95 yards).

San Diego Chargers (5-9) at Cleveland Browns (0-14)

TV: Saturday, 1 p.m. ET, CBS

Line: Chargers by 51/2

Injury report: Chargers RB Melvin Gordon (hip, knee) is unlikely to play. Browns
WR Terrelle Pryor (right hand) expects to play.

Key to the game: Chargers QB Philip Rivers needs 205 yards to reach 4,000 for
the season and one touchdown pass to have 30. But he also has 18 interceptions,
most in the league. Whether he can deal with bad weather will be important,
especially if the running game isn't working.

Washington Redskins (7-6-1) at Chicago Bears (3-11)

TV: Saturday, 1 p.m. ET, Fox

Line: Redskins by 3

Injury report: Redskins TE Jordan Reed (shoulder) is expected to play; LB Will
Compton (knee) hopes to play; CB Quinton Dunbar is in concussion protocol. Bears
NT Eddie Goldman (ankle) is unlikely to play.

Key to the game: From Reed to DeSean Jackson to Jamison Crowder, Washington
brims with explosive players. Despite poor safety play from Adrian Amos and
rookie Deon Bush, the Bears had limited big plays before yielding eight
20-plus-yard plays, including CB Cre'Von LeBlanc getting beat on a 60-yarder to
Green Bay's Jordy Nelson on Sunday's decisive down.

Atlanta Falcons (9-5)  at Carolina Panthers (6-8)

TV: Saturday, 1 p.m. ET, Fox

Line: Falcons by 3

Injury report: Falcons WR Julio Jones (sprained toe) will return after a
two-week absence. Panthers TE Greg Olsen (elbow) expects to play.

Key to the game: Show up: That might be the message Panthers coach Ron Rivera
gives his enigmatic defense this week, considering the Panthers yielded 48
points and 571 yards in the first game between the teams, including Falcons
franchise-record performances by QB Matt Ryan (503 yards, four TD passes, 142.0
passer rating) and Jones (12 catches, 300 yards, one TD).

Miami Dolphins (9-5)  at Buffalo Bills (7-7)

TV: Saturday, 1 p.m. ET, CBS

Line: Bills by 4

Injury report: Dolphins CB Byron Maxwell (ankle) is day-to-day. Bills DT Kyle
Williams (back) could play.

Key to the game: Dolphins RB Jay Ajayi gashed the Bills for 214 yards and a TD
on 28carries in the first meeting, a 28-25 Miami win. But after back-to-back
200-yard rushing efforts, the second-year running back has been bottled up,
averaging 51 yards per game in his last four. The Bills have been vulnerable
against the run, so this could be his week.

Indianapolis Colts (7-7)  at Oakland Raiders (11-3)

TV: Saturday, 4:05 p.m. ET, CBS

Line: Raiders by 3

Injury report: Colts WR Donte Moncrief (hamstring) is ready after missing last
weekend's game. Raiders QB Derek Carr (dislocated right pinkie) will play.

Key to the game: Colts QB Andrew Luck has solidified his reputation for late
game-winning drives, but there's a new kid on the block who is developing a
reputation of his own in that arena -- Carr. If this game is close heading into
the fourth quarter, don't be surprised by a photo finish or a dramatic drive.

San Francisco 49ers (1-13) at Los Angeles Rams (4-10)

TV: Saturday, 4:25 p.m. ET, Fox

Line: Rams by 4

Injury report: 49ers LT Joe Staley (hamstring) is uncertain. Rams QB Jared Goff
(concussion) will start.

Key to the game: Unlike last week, Rams interim coach John Fassel has had time
to prepare the team, and he knows this much: Whatever Jeff Fisher, who was fired
last week, tried in that loss to San Francisco 14 weeks ago was a disaster.

Arizona Cardinals (5-8-1) at Seattle Seahawks (9-4-1)

TV: Saturday, 4:25 p.m. ET, Fox

Line: Seahawks by 71/2

Injury report: Cardinals OT D.J. Humphries is in concussion protocol. Seahawks P
Jon Ryan is in concussion protocol; DE Michael Bennett (knee) should play.

Key to the game: The beginning of Arizona QB Carson Palmer's demise occurred
about this time last year, when his MVP-caliber season ended with a dismal
performance vs. Seattle. He showed signs of coming out of his funk Sunday, but
this defense will be more of a test.

Tampa Bay Buccaneers (8-6) at New Orleans Saints (6-8)

TV: Saturday, 4:25 p.m. ET, Fox

Line: Saints by 3

Injury report: Bucs RT Demar Dotson is in concussion protocol; RT Gosder
Cherilus (groin) is day-to-day. Saints CB Delvin Breaux (shoulder) is unlikely
to play.

Key to the game: The Bucs need to get WR Mike Evans and TE Cameron Brate more
involved in the rematch. They were limited to eight catches for 89 yards and
zero TDs in Game 1. Evans has a team-high 10 TD receptions; Brate has seven.

Cincinnati Bengals (5-8-1) at Houston Texans (8-6)

TV: Saturday, 8:25 p.m. ET, NFL Network

Line: Pick 'em

Injury report: Bengals WR A.J. Green (hamstring) is expected back after missing
four games. Texans RB Lamar Miller (ankle) is day-to-day.

Key to the game: Texans QB Tom Savage, who took over for struggling Brock
Osweiler last weekend, has thrown 55 regular-season passes. He'll get his first
NFL start, and the Texans' game plan is likely to include safe,
confidence-building throws.

Baltimore Ravens (8-6)  at Pittsburgh Steelers (9-5)

TV: Sunday, 4:25 p.m. ET, NFL Network

Line: Steelers by 5

Injury report: Ravens CB Jimmy Smith (ankle) is day-to-day. Steelers TE Ladarius
Green is in concussion protocol; DE Stephon Tuitt (knee sprain) hopes to play.

Key to the game: Steelers RB Le'Veon Bell is one of the NFL's most patient and
productive runners, and the Steelers need to follow his plan. If they can
establish the run early, that will open things up in the passing game.

Denver Broncos (8-6)  at Kansas City Chiefs (10-4)

TV: Sunday, 8:30 p.m. ET, NBC

Line: Chiefs by 3

Injury report: Broncos S T.J. Ward, TE A.J. Derby and TE Virgil Green are in
concussion protocol. Chiefs LB Justin Houston (knee) is expected to play.

Key to the game: Limiting turnovers is where the Chiefs usually shine, but the
last two games have gone against the trend. They beat Oakland with minus 3 on
turnovers and lost to Tennessee when they were plus 2. Overall, Kansas City is
plus 13, one of the best marks in the league. Denver has dropped to plus 2 after
being minus 5 the last two games.

Detroit Lions (9-5) at Dallas Cowboys (12-2)

TV: Monday, 8:30 p.m. ET, ESPN

Line: Cowboys by 7

Injury report: Lions RB Theo Riddick (wrist) and CB Darius Slay (hamstring) are
day-to-day; C Travis Swanson is in concussion protocol. Cowboys DE DeMarcus
Lawrence (back) and CB Morris Claiborne (groin) are unlikely to play.

Key to the game: The Cowboys' 32.0 rushing attempts per game lead the league and
154.5 ground yards per game rank second. Detroit relies on QB Matthew Stafford's
arm, and its defense will have to find a way to stop RB Ezekiel Elliott and
force Dallas to win with Dak Prescott's arm.

USA TODAY Sports staff

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             246 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CAVALIERS FACING ROSTER QUESTIONS;
Long-term injuries to Smith, Andersen will test defending champs

BYLINE: Jeff Zillgitt, jzillgit@usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 5C

LENGTH: 732 words


What once looked like a painless stroll through the regular season to the top
seed in the Eastern Conference is now more challenging for the defending NBA
champion Cleveland Cavaliers.

Before this week, the Cavs' biggest opponents through mid-April were boredom and
complacency.

But Chris Andersen is out for the season, J.R. Smith will miss eight to 12 weeks
recovering from a broken right thumb (shooting hand) suffered Tuesday against
the Milwaukee Bucks and Mo Williams is out for an extended time recovering from
knee surgery.

For at least the next two months, the Cavs have 12 active players. That might
not be a problem short term -- the Cavs beat the Bucks on a back-to-back without
Kevin Love for both games and without Smith for six quarters. Andersen wasn't
playing much, and Williams has been inactive all season.

But long term, the lack of bodies could take its toll, and that's the concern
for the Cavs.

Holding off the Toronto Raptors, who are 11/2 games behind for the top spot in
the East, just got more difficult. The Cavs don't want a situation where they
drop further than a 2 seed. Winning one series on the road is one thing. Winning
three series on the road is another.

Such is the backdrop for the Cavaliers-Golden State Warriors matchup on
Christmas, one that is much-anticipated, considering it's the first meeting
between the two teams since Game 7 of last season's NBA Finals when the Cavs
completed a 3-1 series comeback with a 93-89 victory in Oakland.

Fans are interested and TV ratings should be strong, but the result is
meaningless when it comes to drawing sweeping conclusions about which team will
win this season's championship. Just as Golden State's Christmas win against
Cleveland last season was not a harbinger.

There are no absolutes in a December game between two of the league's best
teams. If anything, it will give Cavs general manager David Griffin a chance to
see what he has -- or more important, what he doesn't have -- as he makes plans
before the February trade deadline.

The Williams situation is an albatross for the Cavs. The team thought he was
going to retire before the season but he didn't, instead using his player option
to stay. He had surgery in October and is taking a needed roster spot.

Why not just eat Williams' salary and add a player? The Cavs are over the luxury
tax and are expected to have another luxury tax bill to pay after this season --
about $30 million right now -- after paying $54 million last summer. Waiving
Williams and adding a minimum salary guy would result in a $13 million payment
in salaries and luxury tax.

But the Cavs have options. They can make a deal before the trade deadline, and
they also have a $9.6 million trade exception to use. Depending on who that
player is if they use the trade exception, it would add salary and increase the
luxury tax payment. But for the right player, who can help win another
championship, the Cavs are willing to make that deal.

What do they need? A backup point guard or a perimeter player who can generate
offense and a perimeter defender. The Cavs need offensive help when LeBron James
and Kyrie Irving are not in the game, but they are 15th in defensive efficiency
(104.5 points per 100 possessions).

The point guard/offensive player is a need now but won't be as big of a factor
come playoff time when rotations shrink and James and Irving play more minutes.
A wing defender will be more important in April, May and June.

Griffin has done a fantastic job creating a roster around stars James, Irving
and Love. He acquired Love, Smith, Iman Shumpert, Timofey Mozgov, Channing Frye
and Mike Dunleavy during the last two years, and he has made tremendous use of
trade exceptions.

Before any deals are made, guards DeAndre Liggins, Jordan McRae and even rookie
Kay Felder at times will play valuable minutes, and that will help their
development and create more depth.

The front office will do its job, and Cavs coach Tyronn Lue and the players will
do theirs.

"Every single game, every single week, just continue to keep getting better,"
Lue said.

"For us defensively, we took that challenge the last six or seven games of
trying to be more defensive-minded and have a defensive mind-set.

"So for me, just continue to get better and continue to get better at what we're
good at and continue to work on the things we need to get better at, and we got
a long season ahead of us."

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Sam Sharpe, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             247 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 173 words


First word

THIS IS ABOUT WHAT'S BEST FOR THE PLAYER, AND I DO THINK HE NEEDS TO GET SOME
(PROFESSIONAL) HELP ON THIS."

ESPN college basketball analyst Jay Bilas, a former Duke player, on the Blue
Devils' Grayson Allen, who was suspended indefinitely for tripping a player for
the third time this year.

MAGIC NUMBER

$10

Hourly rate for fans who helped the Packers shovel snow at Lambeau Field in
advance of Saturday's game against the Vikings. The team asked for up to 650
people to help remove the snow.

TWEET OF THE DAY

@OBJ_3

18k without a single warning, but the world would never kno, they act like it's
no big deal. No respect for the message IMO

Giants receiver Odell Beckham Jr., who was fined $18,000 by the NFL for wearing
cleats in honor of the late Craig Sager.

Last word

"GOT TO WATCH OUT FOR FAKE NEWS THESE DAYS."

Former football coach Barry Switzer, who said he figured when he told reporters
he was going to be the Secretary of Offense for President-elect Donald Trump he
assumed they knew he was joking.

Edited by USA TODAY

Sports staff

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Bilas by Bob Donnan, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             248 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Sports predictions: big names on the move

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 10C

LENGTH: 1563 words


1 Jon Gruden finally returns to coaching for a high-profile gig with the Los
Angeles Rams. And yes, he'll become the NFL's highest-paid coach, too.

2 Teryl Austin and Scott Linehan also land NFL head coaching jobs.

3 Alabama wins the college football national championship, and Nick Saban gets a
raise that sends him past $7 million in annual pay and past Michigan's Jim
Harbaugh as the nation's highest-paid coach.

4 Teenager Chloe Kim takes her place as the best female snowboarder, supplanting
Kelly Clark as the winningest rider ever.

5 Notorious #WakeyLeaks perpetrator Tommy Elrod is appointed by President Trump
to head the CIA's counterintelligence division.

6 The San Diego Chargers move to Los Angeles, officially marking the NFL's
return to L.A. The Rams also will continue to play in L.A.

7 Meanwhile, NFL owners get cold feet about putting the Raiders in Las Vegas but
don't shut the door on it. Pressing the pause button on Vegas gives the Raiders
more time to consider other options and determine whether the NFL is a smart fit
in Sin City.

8 In an NBA trade deadline shocker, DeMarcus Cousins is dealt from the
Sacramento Kings to the Boston Celtics for Isaiah Thomas, Kelly Olynyk and two
draft picks.

9 Kirk Cousins becomes the league's highest-paid player. He gambled on himself
with the franchise tag in 2016, and it pays off. Another franchise tag will cost
nearly $24 million, so that's pretty much where negotiations begin for a
long-term deal from the Washington Redskins (or someone else).

10 In St. Moritz, Switzerland, American skier Mikaela Shiffrin wins her third
world championship in slalom. The 21-year-old, who won Olympic gold in 2014,
won't take the World Cup overall title, but she'll continue to improve in the
speed events with an eye toward the Pyeongchang Games in 2018.

11 Johnny Manziel will ... well, all we know for sure is it will involve a
Breathalyzer test, an inflatable swan and absurd denials.

12 After a series of rancorous cabinet confirmation hearings, an exasperated
President Trump, citing his unimpeachable Facebook posts, tabs Curt Schilling as
Secretary of Education.

13 Tony Romo moves on from Dallas to play for the New York Jets. The Denver
Broncos might be a better situation for the veteran quarterback, but GM John
Elway can't make it work with the salary cap.

14 After leading Duke to its sixth national championship, coach Mike Krzyzewski
announces his retirement. (Editor's note: We predicted this last year. It's
bound to come true.)

15 Bored in retirement, slugger David Ortiz becomes a contestant on the spring
season of Dancing with the Stars.

16 Bored as a struggling minor leaguer, Tim Tebow retires from baseball in the
fall and commits to joining Dancing with the Stars.

17 Jose Mourinho is fired at the end of his first season as head coach of
Manchester United after failing to turn around the club's fortunes.

18 Two years and three days after he is foaled, Mastery captures the 143rd
Kentucky Derby for Bob Baffert, the trainer's fifth victory in the Run for the
Roses. His previous Derby winner was some stud named American Pharoah, who ended
the 37-year Triple Crown drought in 2015.

19 Russell Westbrook becomes the first player since Oscar Robertson in 1961-62
to average a triple-double for an entire season.

20 Josef Newgarden rewards the decision of Roger Penske to sign him by earning
his first Indianapolis 500 win and record 17th for Team Penske.

21 The Chicago Cubs invite Steve Bartman to Wrigley Field, and he throws a
strike for the first pitch -- sans headphones.

22 A motivated Maria Sharapova returns from her drug suspension with a vengeance
and wins a major. The response from fans and even fellow players is harsh.

23 The San Antonio Spurs and Gregg Popovich win their sixth NBA title, downing
the Golden State Warriors in the Western Conference finals and taking out the
Cleveland Cavaliers in the Finals.

24 Conor McGregor continues to turn the screw on the UFC and get paid. McGregor
beats Nate Diaz in a trilogy fight in the summer, then downs returning Georges
St.-Pierre in an end-of-year blockbuster that breaks the organization's
pay-per-view record.

25 Armed with new equipment and rejuvenated with an improved back, Tiger Woods
wins for the first time since 2013. It won't be a major championship, but it
will be a triumphant breakthrough for the best player of his generation.

26 Lance Armstrong goes to trial about whether he should have to pay for his
sins on the U.S. Postal Service cycling team. The federal government wins the
trial, but the jury makes him pay only about $400,000 instead of the $100
million sought by the government.

27 James Harden wins the NBA MVP Award in one of the closest votes in history.
Six players get first-place votes.

28 Stung by criticism that they don't win enough as individuals, the Americans
win golf's Solheim Cup. Mark down Stacy Lewis as the one securing the winning
point.

29 Serena Williams wins major No. 23, at Wimbledon, to break her tie with Steffi
Graf for the most majors in the Open era.

30 The Los Angeles Clippers' core finally cracks. After losing out on home-court
advantage in the playoffs, the Clippers fall in the first round again and Chris
Paul signs with the New York Knicks in free agency. Blake Griffin re-signs with
L.A.

31 Tom Brady turns 40 -- no joke, on Aug. 3.

32 Los Angeles is selected to host the 2024 Olympics. The L.A. bid faces stiff
competition from Paris, but when the IOC picks a city in September its L.A.'s
existing infrastructure, plans to rein in costs and Olympic history that will
bring the Games back to the USA.

33 While the Internationals put up a spirited fight in the shadows of the Statue
of Liberty at Liberty National in New Jersey, the USA, led by captain Steve
Stricker, continues its domination of the Presidents Cup.

34 The Boston Red Sox beat the Chicago Cubs in a rematch of the 1918 World
Series.

35 Dale Earnhardt Jr. misses NASCAR races because of a recurrence of concussion
symptoms like those that forced him to miss 18 of 36 races in 2016.

36 Floyd Mayweather Jr. and Manny Pacquiao fight in a rematch of their 2015 bout
that shattered records for revenue but also bored the masses.

37 The NFL, fresh off of a wake-up call from plunging TV ratings during the
election season, realizes it needs to alter the way it packages its product.
Look for banner ads to replace some commercial stoppages -- we're looking at
you, post-TD and post-kickoff pause -- and for a more streamlined officiating
process that keeps the action moving.

38 Chris Sale not only wins the Cy Young Award, but the MVP, too, in his first
season with the Red Sox.

39 Shohei Otani, a dominant pitcher and hitter in Japan, signs with the
Washington Nationals after the 2017 season.

40 Dustin Johnson becomes the first player to win back-to-back PGA Tour player
of the year honors since Woods completed a hat trick in 2007. On his way to
becoming world No. 1 for the first time, Johnson wins his second major
championship among four victories.

41 Nick Saban laughs and breaks into a brief smile, according to a published
report. Subsequent reports downgrade it to a chuckle.

42 The U.S. men's national soccer team rebounds under new coach Bruce Arena and
qualifies for the 2018 World Cup. It won't be pretty, as Arena uses a
back-to-basics style, but the Americans manage to finish in the third and final
automatic CONCACAF qualifying spot.

43 The fourth season of the dynasty-proof NASCAR top-series playoff achieves its
mandate again, as Jimmie Johnson fails to repeat as champ. No driver has won
consecutive titles since the new system was concocted for the 2014 season.

44 The Nationals trade Bryce Harper after the season.

45 Michigan finally breaks through and beats Ohio State. Jim Harbaugh stays with
Michigan, setting him up to again surpass Saban as the nation's highest-paid
football coach.

46 A college football team that didn't qualify for its own conference
championship game again is selected to play in the College Football Playoff.
Questions are raised about the purpose of such championship games until
everybody draws the same conclusion: They're just exhibition games designed to
squeeze more money out of fans, television networks and advertisers.

47 The Buffalo Bills do not make the playoffs for the 17th consecutive year.
Bills fans will do stupid and embarrassing things along the way.

48 After a second consecutive losing season, the University of Arizona parts
ways with football coach Rich Rodriguez, setting off a bidding war for his
services from ESPN and Fox Sports.

49 Alabama quarterback Jalen Hurts wins the Heisman Trophy. With only moderate
improvement in his passing accuracy, he's able to do everything Lamar Jackson
did in 2016, and Hurts has an even better team around him to help.

50 The New England Patriots don't win the AFC East for the first time since 2008
and second time since Tom Brady became starting quarterback in 2001. Instead,
they are overtaken by the Miami Dolphins and hot-shot coach Adam Gase.

51 The Cleveland Browns win a few football games -- at least five of them --
once they figure out a solution at quarterback and plug holes on their roster.

52 An NFL wide receiver gains 2,000 yards. Maybe it's Antonio Brown or Julio
Jones, who have been close before. Maybe it's explosive Odell Beckham Jr. or
Mike Evans, who gets more targets than anyone else in the league. Wide2K is
coming.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Matthew Emmons, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             249 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 23, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Warriors know Cavs showdown is moot

BYLINE: Sam Amick, sramick@usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 5C

LENGTH: 599 words


Of all the interesting revelations that have surfaced about these 2016-17 Golden
State Warriors, there's one that stands out above the rest.

They're starting from scratch.

Yes, the Cleveland Cavaliers fans who are on an extended victory lap still
torture their Twitter timelines with "3-1" references about the Warriors' NBA
Finals collapse. And yes, the pain from that experience still resides deep in
the souls of the Warriors players who remain. But beyond all the obvious
advantages that came with Kevin Durant's arrival in July, the reality for the
Warriors is that he was their reset button.

It might have been the best post-Finals loss bounce-back move in league history.
And for the purposes of this Christmas Day showdown with the Cavs that looms so
large in the eyes of the fans and media, it means one thing for the Warriors:
With their eyes fixed on the bigger prize, this game doesn't matter in the
slightest.

Ironically, it was the Cavs who taught them last season that these
regular-season showdowns can count as mulligans. A quick refresher course ...

Christmas Day 2015: The Warriors down the Cavs 89-83 at Oracle Arena, a
playoff-style game in which their defense won the day (the Cavs' Big Three of
LeBron James, Kyrie Irving and Kevin Love shot a combined 19-for-57 (33.3%).

June 19, 2016: After the Cavs pull out the 93-89 win in Game 7 of the Finals,
James and his teammates treat the Warriors' arena like it's their favorite road
hotel. The champagne flows, including a jumbo-sized bottle that James -- who is
wearing enormous goggles like all the rest of them -- carries through the
tunnels as Warriors players head for the exits.

But should the Warriors and Cavs become the first teams to face off in the
Finals for a third consecutive time, it's their habits -- not the history --
that's going to help Golden State get back on top again. To that end, they find
themselves in a fantastic spot at the moment.

Five months in, there are no signs of a superstar squabble. Durant (25.7 points
per game), back-to-back MVP Stephen Curry (24.7), and two-time All-Star Klay
Thompson (21.4) are leading the way on offense, with Draymond Green (10.6
points, 8.8 rebounds, 7.2 assists) giving balance while looking like a defensive
player of the year front-runner on the other end and veteran sixth man Andre
Iguodala heading the second unit. And while it has taken a mature approach from
all involved to make it work, no one deserves more credit than Curry.

Curry, who had recruited Durant in the Hamptons in July alongside his Warriors
teammates, coaches and executives, has long since set the tone on their selfless
culture that remains intact. And while his individual numbers are down (he's on
pace for "only" 311 three-pointers after hitting a league-record 402 last
season), his willingness to share the spotlight with another former MVP has been
impressive.

"I think it still is his team," said Marcus Thompson, a columnist for the Bay
Area News Group who has covered Curry's career and whose book, Golden: The
Miraculous Rise of Steph Curry, comes out in April.

"I think he still is the glue that makes all this work. It's just not in scoring
30 points (per game). There is a part of him that wants to beast, right, to say,
'I told y'all,' right? And then there's a part of him that's fine saying, 'You
know what, I had mine. This is cool. Remember me as the guy who took the
sacrifice.' Because later on ... when we're talking about it, that's what we
will remember. We'll say, 'Man, he gave his seat up to Durant.'"

What we won't remember, however, is what happened on Christmas Day.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jesse Johnson, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             250 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Critic's Corner

BYLINE: Robert Bianco, @BiancoRobert, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 210 words


A Charlie Brown Christmas ABC, 8 ET/PT

Christmas is ever closer, bringing with it one of TV's greatest holiday  gifts:
Another helping  of this cherished classic. One of TV's Big 3 animated
Christmas  specials -- along with Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer and How the
Grinch Stole Christmas -- Charlie Brown is the simplest, the jazziest and the
most unabashedly spiritual, with its ever-more-relevant message about the
necessity of faith and the need to look past the trappings of Christmas to its
true meaning.

The Great American Baking Show ABC, 9 ET/PT

ABC follows Charlie Brown

with another great Christmas tradition: Baking. This special two-hour episode of
the British import sees contestants tackling chocolate delights and crème brûleé
under the watchful of eyes of judges Mary Berry and Johnny Iuzzini.

Remember the Night TCM, 9:45 ET/6:45 PT

Barbara Stanwyck and Fred

MacMurray star in this somewhat lesser-known Hollywood Christmas classic,
written by the great Preston Sturges and directed by Mitchell Leisen. It's one
of those rare holiday films that's able to mix comedy with sentiment without
being either unduly manic or unbearably sentimental. As such, it deserves to be
better known and more frequently aired, so feel free to aid the cause by
watching.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             251 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

The Force is strong in this 'Star Wars' movie ranking

BYLINE: Brian Truitt, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 623 words


Unless you've been held captive by a Wampa, crash-landed a TIE Fighter on Jakku
or were eaten by the Sarlacc -- we see you there, Boba Fett, keep hope alive --
it's probably not news that there's a Star Wars movie out.

For everybody who hasn't seen the Death Star  onscreen enough, Rogue One is the
flick for you.

Nerds and civilians alike are again busting out their Star Wars tapes and DVDs,
special editions or original recipe, and rewatching the seven previous films to
get jacked up for the first standalone Star Wars movie and eighth chapter in
this galactic saga. And fourth prequel if we're being technical.

We're no different. We binged them again, too, and these are the rankings you're
looking for, y'all -- including Rogue One.

1 'The Empire Strikes  Back' (1980)

Empire is like a Star Destroyer -- full of great scenes: Vader's reveal to Luke
about being the kid's father;  Luke training with Yoda and each kinda getting
ticked off;  Han and Leia's "I love you/I know" exchange before  he gets frozen
in carbonite.  It's the chapter that takes a cool sci-fi fairy tale with
Arthurian overtones and sends it on its way to being a masterwork of
storytelling.

2 'Star Wars' (1977)

The original remains the real deal mostly because of all the great  moments.
Luke  looking out over the  horizon of Tatooine and  knowing his destiny lies
beyond.  Han  explaining that hokey religions and ancient weapons are no match
for a good blaster.  Leia being  brave  as she faces  the destruction of her
planet.  We don't need to know much about their history  to quickly fall in
love.

3  'The Force Awakens' (2015)

Director J.J. Abrams gets dangerously close to recycling old material, but
instead he uses those familiar motifs to set the stage for an exciting third
trilogy and crafts arguably the best final shot ever in a Star Wars film.

4 'Return of the Jedi' (1983)

What makes this movie so special are all the satisfying conclusions. Luke
Skywalker (Mark Hamill) says goodbye to Yoda in a touching moment; and Leia
(Carrie Fisher) finding out about her sibling connection to Luke is emotional
but not cloying.  Check yourself for a pulse if you're not getting  chills  when
Vader says "Let me look on you with my own eyes" to Luke before dying.

5 'Rogue One:  A Star Wars Story' (2016)

For its maiden standalone voyage, Star Wars brass blended the old (the Rebel
Alliance freaking out about the construction of the Empire's mighty Death Star)
with something new (a war movie digging into the battlefields on land and in
space with insurgents rising up against "the Man"). The results are a mixed bag:
Jyn Erso (Felicity Jones) heads up armed misfits to steal the Death Star plans,
though a snarky droid ends up being the best character in the bunch. (For the
record, K-2SO is way cooler than C-3PO.)

6  'Revenge of  the Sith' (2005)

It's no coincidence that the prequel that's closest to the original trilogy in
tone, story and theme is the best one. Anakin finally has his full turn to the
Dark Side, though it's  a little whiplash-y how quickly he goes from broody,
anti-authoritarian kid to child-killing, baddest man in the galaxy.

7  'Attack of the Clones' (2002)

There are so many sleek special effects that you miss the  spit-and-gum
filmmaking of Lucas' originals. Also, Hayden Christensen and Natalie Portman
have zero chemistry as  lovers Anakin and Padmé.  All that said, Clones isn't a
bad film and it's pretty good whenever Ewan McGregor's Obi-Wan Kenobi is around.

8  'The Phantom  Menace' (1999)

George Lucas' prequels get a bad rap and, well, they kind of deserve it.  What
basically is a two-hour trailer for the rest of Anakin Skywalker's story is kind
of a mess -- he was immaculately conceived?  And as for Jar Jar Binks ... yeah.


LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             252 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

State suspends employees' charity

BYLINE: Jeff Burlew, Tallahassee Democrat

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 321 words


Florida officials suspended their state worker annual charitable campaign after
its most dismal year on record, leaving its future in serious doubt.

This year's Florida State Employees' Charitable Campaign raised only $282,092,
its lowest amount in its 36-year history. And once again, the New Jersey vendor
serving as the campaign's fiscal agent, Solix Inc., was poised to get most of
the money, some 63%.

But the state's decision to put the charitable campaign on ice means neither
Solix nor the charities across Florida that the campaign serves will see any
money from the fall drive, which ended Nov. 10.

Chad Poppell, secretary of the Department of Management Services, notified state
agencies Dec. 5 that he was suspending next year's campaign and ending the
state's contract with Solix by mutual agreement. He also said all pledges from
state employees during the most recent drive would go unprocessed.

"Employees who pledged to the campaign will be notified of the status of the
campaign," Poppell said in a memo. "And we are asking those who pledged to
consider giving directly to the charity of their choice."

Former senator Bob Graham, who was governor when the giving campaign was created
by the state Cabinet in 1980, said he hopes its work can be salvaged. The
Democrat said efforts like the campaign not only help charities but also build
bonds between government and communities.

"I'm disappointed that this experiment with using a private vendor has ended up
in the train wreck of the whole program being suspended for at least a year,"
Graham said in an interview. "And I'm hoping that year will be used to lick our
wounds, learn the lessons and re-establish the program as it was (when) it
functioned so effectively."

Lawmakers will have to decide what to do with the campaign; state statutes
require the Department of Management Services to "establish and maintain" the
Florida State Employees' Charitable Campaign.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             253 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Stoops: Mixon would be booted today

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 438 words


Oklahoma football coach Bob Stoops said Wednesday that Joe Mixon would be off
the team if he had punched a woman now instead of 21/2 years ago, when Stoops
suspended the star running back for a year in a move that has drawn sharp
criticism.

Mixon was suspended after punching Oklahoma student Amelia Molitor in 2014.
Mixon returned last year and helped the Sooners reach the College Football
Playoff, and he has been a standout again this season for No.7 Oklahoma.

Stoops said he believed that then-18-year-old Mixon could redeem himself. He
said times have changed and society now has a no-tolerance policy on domestic
violence incidents. He said that's a good thing.

"Two-and-a-half years later, dismissal is really the only thing that is
possible," Stoops said. "A young guy having an opportunity to rehabilitate and
to have some kind of discipline and come back from it is really not there
anymore. Hopefully that message goes down even to the high school level, that
these things are just unacceptable to any degree."

Mixon entered an Alford plea, acknowledging there was likely enough evidence to
convict him of misdemeanor assault while asserting his innocence. He did no jail
time and was ordered to perform 100 hours of community service and undergo
counseling.

In video released Tuesday, Mixon sat stone-faced as he, his mother and police
officers watched footage of him knocking out Molitor with a punch, breaking her
jaw and cheekbone, at a  restaurant.

The video of Mixon telling his side of the story three days after the July 2014
incident was released by Norman police. His mom, members of his legal team,
Detective David Freudiger and Sgt. Gary Schmidt were present. The department
released the video days after Mixon's lawyers released video of the attack.

Stoops said he was shaken by the video of the punch.

"It was horrible," he said. "I hated it. Disliked it as -- I hated it as much as
anybody did."

Stoops said the length of time it took for the video to surface created
problems.

"We expected that video to be released within a week or two or three weeks or
within that month," he said. "We had no idea it would go this long, and that is
out of our hands as well. The timeline of it all has not worked out very well
for anybody."

Stoops says Mixon has matured since the incident.

"It's hard to give up on these young men that I go in their homes and talk to
their families and talk about their opportunities to grow at Oklahoma," he said.
"For those that find that unacceptable, I apologize to those people. But I feel
like Joe has moved ahead in a very positive way. And believe he's really grown
and matured for it."

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             254 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

What to watch;
Dow suffering from 'rusty door' syndrome

BYLINE: Adam Shell, @adamshell, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 226 words


The Dow Jones industrial average is turning into a tease.

A flirt.

A stock index that keeps saying to the world, "Look at me, I'm going to make
history by surpassing the biggest Wall Street milestone of them all, Dow
20,000."

There's just one problem. The Dow keeps knocking at the door to 20,000 but can't
quite get through it. Wednesday, it got as close as 13 points. And last Thursday
it got within 14 points of making history. But it couldn't close the deal and
get over the hump.

The Dow is suffering from an affliction known as "rusty door" syndrome, which
occurs near big milestones.

"With the Dow flirting with the 20,000 level, we are reminded that millennium
and century marks on major stock indices have traditionally acted like 'rusty
doors,' requiring several attempts before finally swinging open," Sam Stovall,
chief investment strategist at CFRA, noted in a report.

"Therefore, it should come as no surprise if stocks take a breather to digest
recent gains."

Stovall says investors could sell after Jan. 1, 2017, as tax rates on capital
gains might be lower under Donald Trump's incoming administration.

Still, Stovall says any market pullback will be just a pause, noting that the
S&P 500 stock index is up just 6.3% from its July 11 post-correction recovery
high, vs. an average gain of 9.5% after getting to break-even from corrections
since 1945.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             255 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

'Star Wars' universe will just keep expanding;
Franchise's potential seems 'unlimited'

BYLINE: Brian Truitt, @briantruitt, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 508 words


Star Wars is quickly becoming as synonymous with December as Santa Claus and
Christmas carols.

Rogue One: A Star Wars Story, the first standalone film in the series, took the
box office by storm last weekend, making its debut with $155 million -- the
second-biggest December opening ever. No. 1 on that list? Last year's Star Wars:
The Force Awakens, which started with a cool $248 million and ended up the
all-time domestic champ with $937 million.

With Star Wars: Episode VIII in theaters Dec. 15, 2017, the future of the sci-fi
saga looks as bright as a laser blast from the Death Star.

"The universe is unlimited for Star Wars," says comScore senior media analyst
Paul Dergarabedian. "The intensity with which fans love this franchise is second
to none."

Rogue One's success so far bodes well for where the standalones will go next,
says Erik Davis, managing editor for Fandango.com and Movies.com. Its tale of
Jyn Erso (Felicity Jones) and her Rebel group's mission to steal the Empire's
secret Death Star plans takes place before the original 1977 Star Wars, as does
the upcoming young Han Solo movie (May 25, 2018) starring Alden Ehrenreich.

Davis sees the potential for a new prequel series if the third standalone film
follows suit "in that same era." (The "anthology" film is slated for 2020,
though no  details have been announced.)

Going forward, the perfect standalone movie "will accomplish what Rogue One
does: widen the universe, expand our knowledge of previous Star Wars films we
love, while also telling a brand new story with characters we haven't seen
before," Davis says.

Meanwhile, the main players of The Force Awakens -- including Rey (Daisy
Ridley), Finn (John Boyega) and Poe Dameron (Oscar Isaac) -- have their stories
continue in writer/director Rian Johnson's as-yet-untitled Episode VIII next
year and then Episode IX, directed by Colin Trevorrow and set for May 23, 2019.

As that trilogy ends, Uproxx senior entertainment writer Mike Ryan figures the
high-profile episodes will continue: "Disney didn't spend $4 billion on
Lucasfilm so they could just concentrate on standalone movies."

Disney could always go the Marvel route and release offshoots that tie into its
bigger films,  though Ryan isn't sure there are enough known Star Wars
characters to go around.

"When Marvel takes a risk on Doctor Strange or Guardians of the Galaxy, those
are already established brands to a core audience of comic-book readers," Ryan
says. "No one knew who Jyn or Cassian were (before Rogue One) -- the hook was
'stealing the Death Star plans.'"

Davis agrees, saying more than one film a year could dilute the franchise. "They
turn their movies into events. It's starting to feel like a new holiday when a
Star Wars movie comes out. That's something they need to hold onto for the brand
to keep being successful."

Adds Ryan: "Star Wars has always been delivered in small doses. That's changing,
but the market in 2016 can handle one Star Wars movie a year, plus an animated
series. If the average person gets bored with it all, that's a problem."

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Ben A. Pruchnie, Getty Images, for Walt Disney Studios

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             256 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Best to invest with: Rich manager or a poor one?;
Study shows top- performing mutual fund managers grew up in poorest families,
had to work harder

BYLINE: , ,

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 583 words


The best-performing mutual fund managers, on average, are those who grew up in
the poorest families.

You read that right: The best managers on Wall Street, that bastion of the 1%,
more often than not are from families at the poorest end of the socioeconomic
spectrum.

That, at least, is the fascinating finding of a recently published study from
the National Bureau of Economic Research in Cambridge, Mass. The authors --
Denis Sosyura, a finance professor at the University of Michigan, and Oleg
Chuprinin, a senior lecturer at the University of New South Wales in Australia
-- found fund managers who grew up in the poorest families did more than 2
percentage points per year better, on average, than managers from the wealthiest
families.

Researchers reached this conclusion after painstakingly compiling the family
histories of individuals managing U.S. domestic equity funds for any significant
period  between 1975 and 2012. To do this, they extracted data from sources as
diverse as the Lexis Nexis public records database, the National Student
Clearinghouse, Ancestry.com and the U.S. National Archives and Records
Administration. While  unable to obtain the necessary data for every individual
who managed a fund at any point over these four decades, the database they
compiled did still encompass more than 400 mutual funds.

Why do the average fund managers from the poorest families outperform those from
the wealthiest families? It's not that individuals who grow up in the poorest
families have more innate talent, as it turns out. But they certainly face much
higher entry barriers into Wall Street. One consequence, according to the
researchers, is that "only the most skilled make it into fund management."

Managers who grow up in the wealthiest families, in contrast, are able to follow
a relatively easy and well-trodden path to Wall Street, attending elite private
secondary schools and select colleges and universities.

Even after managers from poor families make it into the world of mutual fund
management they still face discrimination. An example comes when they are being
considered to manage an additional fund or promoted to manage a bigger one. The
researchers found that, among two managers with equal track records, the one
from the wealthier family is more likely to get the promotion. In order to
compete, therefore, the manager from the poorer family must deliver superior
returns.

The researchers do not recommend that you pick a mutual fund solely on the basis
of the socioeconomic status of its manager's family of origin. Their results are
based on averages, so not every fund manager from a poor family will beat one
who grew up more privileged. But a difference of more than 2 percentage points
per year certainly suggests that family of origin is at least one relevant data
point.

This means that, among  funds  identical in all other respects, you might want
to favor the one managed by the individual who grew up in the poorer family.

The researchers also suspect the pattern they found in the mutual fund arena
appears elsewhere in the business world where there are high barriers to entry,
such as corporate management. Documenting that pattern is more difficult, since
performance is not as easily quantified.

But when it comes to mutual fund performance, the numbers don't lie.

Mark Hulbert, founder of the Hulbert Financial Digest, has been tracking
investment advisers' performances for four decades. Email mark@hulbert

ratings.com or go to www.hulbert

ratings.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             257 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Last-minute gifts for entrepreneurs;
Thinking outside the box could be path to finding perfect present

BYLINE: Rhonda Abrams, @RhondaAbrams, Special for USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 724 words


Stumped as to what to get your favorite small business owner or start-up guru
for the holidays?

No worries. There's still time to buy the perfect gift for the entrepreneur on
your gift list, and many of these can be purchased from the comfort of your
chair.

Domain. Every business needs its own domain name.

It's far more professional to have an email address like chris@chrisbusiness.com
than a generic one, such as gmail, yahoo or outlook.com. Fortunately, there are
more than 1,300 new domain extensions (or gTLDs -- for generic top-level
domains), such as .business, .guru, .shop, .online, .store, .photography,
.agency, .fitness. Find -- and register -- domain names at a "domain registrar"
such as Donuts.

Simple website. Shockingly, about half of all small businesses do not have even
a simple website. Building a website is now easy and inexpensive with templated
small business website builders such as Weebly, Squarespace, Wix and Jimdo. Buy
your entrepreneur a few months or year of hosting, and they can easily create
their new website.

Company logo. Your very special favorite entrepreneur doesn't have a logo yet?
You can gift them the ability to choose a custom-made logo from a graphic
designer or an online design service such as 99Designs, Logoworks, or
DesignCrowd, starting at about $299.

Online data storage. Most start-up entrepreneurs store all their valuable data
on their laptops. Computers get lost or stolen, so it's critical to have
cloud-based data storage. And a cloud-based storage service also helps your
entrepreneur be mobile, stay organized and, as they build their company,
collaborate with others. Three of the most popular are Dropbox, Box and
GoogleDrive, which starts at just $1.99 a month.

Email service. Want to help your favorite entrepreneur grow their business? Gift
them a year's worth of a simple email newsletter service, such as Emma,
ConstantContact or MailChimp. MailChimp even has a very good free plan, so your
gift could be helping your entrepreneur set up their newsletter. Or you could
help them learn a social media management tool such as Hootsuite, Tweet Deck or
Sprout Social.

Session with a business consultant. I'll bet at least one person on your gift
list dreams of starting their own small business but hasn't yet taken the
plunge. Help them take that first step. Search online for a business consultant
and pay for an initial meeting or find your local Small Business Development
Center (SBDC) and sign them up for a business planning workshop.

A connection. Here's the most important thing you can give an entrepreneur: an
introduction to someone who can help them grow their business. Know someone at
the large corporation they've been trying to sell to? Arrange a lunch for the
three of you. If your entrepreneur needs funding and you have any connections to
potential funders -- angel investors or VCs, venture capitalists -- introduce
them. If you know someone in the media or other influencers, try to get
publicity or an endorsement for your entrepreneur's product or business.

Gift certificate for a massage. Whether your entrepreneur is hunched over a desk
all day, travels constantly or simply seems overly stressed, they could
definitely use the chance to unwind and get the kinks out. That's my favorite
gift.

A great-looking journal. Most entrepreneurs have more ideas than they can
possibly keep track of. A nice journal and good pen motivates them to jot down
all those great plans and keep them in one place. Consider a Moleskine --
they're all the rage with Millennial entrepreneurs.

A giant monitor. Are you willing to splurge? Your small-business owner will love
you if you get them a large monitor. After all, it's difficult, and tiring, to
be working on a tiny monitor all day.

A real, physical book. Studies show that unplugging from all electronics for an
hour or more before going to bed provides a better night's sleep. So give your
always-plugged-in entrepreneur a real, honest-to-goodness, physical book to read
so they can disconnect and actually get a good night's sleep.

Chocolate, caffeine and alcohol. You know why.

Rhonda Abrams is the author of 19 books including "Successful Business Plan:
Secrets & Strategies," now in its sixth edition. Connect with Rhonda on Facebook
and Twitter. Register for Rhonda's free business tips newsletter at
www.PlanningShop.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Thinkstock

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             258 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

YouTube's stars feel the pinch as facebook cuts in;
Video performers now have 'first real competitive threat'

BYLINE: Jefferson Graham, @jeffersongraham, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 909 words


For video performer PewDiePie and several of his colleagues, there's something
wrong with YouTube.

There have been a litany of complaints this year, most specifically that their
views on the video network -- which can be up to 75 million views for a
one-minute post -- are down. The suspicion: that YouTube owner Google has
altered its algorithm in a way that doesn't show as much love for the creator as
before.

"If this continues, it's going to kill a lot of channels," said Pew DiePie,
whose real name is Felix Kjellberg, recently in his "WTF is going on with
YouTube?" video.

YouTube begs to differ. The company says nothing has changed. It looked into
complaints from PewDiePie and other creators and found nothing there. "We've
done an extensive review and found there have been no decreases in creators'
subscriber numbers," said YouTube spokeswoman Mariana De Felice.

YouTube has given growth to a self-made category of video stars who make a
healthy living cutting videos for the YouTube audience. YouTube rewards them by
sharing a portion of the ad revenues and opening up other possibilities by
letting them sell their own sponsorships and product placements. Beyond
PewDiePie, YouTube's most popular performer with 50 million subscribers, other
big names include Grace Helbig, Lilly Singh and comedians Rhett and Link.

PewDiePie earned  $15million in 2016 from his YouTube activities, according to
Forbes. He's the most high-profile performer to lodge complaints against
YouTube; others include Philip DeFranco and Sammy Albon.

Algorithm suspicions aside, for these stars it's clear that the video landscape
has totally changed.

YouTube is still strong and healthy, the No. 1 spot for videos with 1 billion
users monthly and attracting more viewers than a year earlier,  the company
says. (According to researcher Comscore Media Metrix, YouTube had 233.8 million
visitors in the U.S. in November, up 4% from the previous November.)

Facebook says some 8 billion videos are viewed daily on the social network,
although those networks need to be taken with a grain of salt. Non-live views
are counted when seen in as little as 3 seconds, and many viewers see videos in
their News Feed constantly, as autoplay videos with no sound.

With videos and now Facebook Live, the social network's huge push to bring live
event programming to Facebook users, the company gave YouTube "its first real
competitive threat," said Peter Csathy, chairman of Creatv Media, a San
Diego-based advisory firm, and the author of the upcoming Media 2.0 book.

Facebook, which hasn't updated its daily video tally to include Live videos, has
an algorithm that pushes video over plain text and photos in posts. Because of
that, the social network is now "killing YouTube in views" when it comes to
engagement for Bryan Rason, a Canadian guitarist who regularly posts to both
platforms. "Did that with my last upload and got 100% more views/interaction,"
he said.

What Facebook is not doing is sharing ad revenue with video creators, like
YouTube. Facebook said this summer that it would begin sharing ad revenues with
creators, but that didn't happen in 2016. Facebook told USA TODAY this week that
it's currently testing ways to insert ad breaks in live videos and looking to
add them to posted videos, as well. It's paying big celebrities and media brands
to create live video for users, but that hasn't expanded to most members of the
YouTube creator community.

That Facebook didn't come through with compensation  "was frustrating," says
James McFadden, CEO of Collab, a Los Angeles-based digital talent network that
works with creators to help them monetize their work. "People put a lot of time
and effort into building their fan base on Facebook, and they tried to leverage
them to YouTube."

Despite the growth of video views on Facebook, views on YouTube for McFadden's
base of 1,000 clients are up 100% from last year, he says. "YouTube is still
dominant in this space."

Beyond Facebook, Twitter has opened up its platform to a handful of creators,
but not the general public, to share in revenues. Some Collab clients "are
starting to see significant amounts of money from Twitter," he says, as well as
Live.ly, the live-streaming app.

Snapchat and Instagram, the other two huge social networks, don't share ad
revenues with creators, but savvy photographers and hams have figured a way to
sell sponsorships to their posts.

Garrick Tiplady, CEO of Venma, which helps video creators monetize their work,
says he's looking at ways to expand creators' audience to set-top boxes like
Roku with ad-share programs in 2017.

Csathy notes that Facebook in 2016 "promised video creators better economics
than YouTube," which didn't materialize. "But Facebook will unveil them in 2017.
And when it does, it will be all-out war."

YouTube's star creators, who gather yearly for the fan-fest VidCon, are keeping
up the pressure.

PewDiePie threatened to kill his channel when it reached 50 million subscribers,
so pronounced was his beef with the network. Instead, when he hit the magic
number, the threat turned out to be a hoax. He deleted instead a small sub
channel and just posted an unboxing video of a big gift from YouTube for
reaching 50 million subscribers.

"I ---- a lot on YouTube ... but YouTube has given me everything," he said in
the unboxing video.

Follow USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham on Twitter, @jeffersongraham, and listen to
the daily #TalkingTech podcast on iTunes and Stitcher.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Getty Images/ iStockphoto iStockphoto

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             259 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Defeat gave Clemson purpose, not pain

BYLINE: George Schroeder, gschroeder@usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 979 words


In the moments after the huge upset went final -- Pittsburgh 43, Clemson 42, and
who really knew at the time what it might mean for the Tigers, but certainly
nothing good -- Ben Boulware found himself thinking back to the simple message
from the voluntary pregame chapel and acknowledging the truth the speaker had
been telling.

Prosperity, as it turned out, really is a terrible teacher. It's a line Clemson
coach Dabo Swinney has often used, as well. But suddenly it resonated in a new,
very vivid way.

"It just kind of proved it," the senior linebacker said of the loss. "It was
perfect timing. It just hit home."

Bringing back a formidable nucleus after a near-miss in the national
championship game last January, Clemson had embraced high expectations for the
2016 season. Almost everyone expected the Tigers to make another serious run at
winning it all. But through the first two-thirds of the season, their
performances had been uneven: flashes of that tremendous potential along with
close calls no one saw coming and pratfalls that left even the Tigers scratching
their heads. At times it seemed as if there was a heaviness attending the
season; the inconsistency seemed uninspired.

They vehemently dispute the last part. But when Chris Blewitt's 48-yard field
goal with six seconds left Nov. 12 pushed Pittsburgh to an extremely unlikely
road victory, Clemson's season looked an awful lot like something we'd seen just
a year before.

Clemson vs. Ohio State in a College Football Playoff semifinal is a meeting of
programs that have pounded very similar paths in the last few seasons.

In 2015, Ohio State brought nearly everyone back after winning the national
championship. The Buckeyes were a unanimous preseason No. 1; the question wasn't
if they'd win, it was by how much. Then they muddled through a season of uneven
and -- they would dispute this -- uninspired performances. Everything cratered
in a terrible November home loss to a Michigan State team playing without its
starting quarterback.

Instead of defending its national title, Ohio State missed the Playoff.

"Was it sometimes a slog? Was it hard to meet expectations?" Buckeyes coach
Urban Meyer says. "Absolutely. It was impossible."

Having been through it before -- his 2009 Florida team went through something
very similar -- he's come to the conclusion that it's an unavoidable reality:
Sustaining the motivation necessary to perform at the highest level is
exponentially more difficult after success than on the way there.

"It's gonna be that way," Meyer says. "I've accepted that fact. I tried to make
sure it was fun."

The comparison is imperfect. Clemson isn't coming off a national championship.
That 45-40 loss to Alabama provided motivational fuel throughout the offseason.
While Meyer says he tried to make sure 2015 was fun for the Buckeyes, Swinney
says he hasn't had to do much of anything for these Tigers.

"This has been the easiest team I've had to coach, and the funnest," Swinney
says, adding that from the very first team meeting after the loss to Alabama the
collective mind-set seemed to be a determined, "Let's go! We're ready to get to
work -- yesterday."

Senior defensive tackle Carlos Watkins is among several Tigers who've said, over
and over and over again, that the loss left "a sour taste." He and his teammates
bristle at the idea that complacency ever crept in. They say they were driven
and continue to be driven by the loss to 'Bama.

"We went to work every day and embraced every moment and didn't look past any
teams, especially Pittsburgh," Boulware says.

But he also admits: "It definitely gave us a little fire under our butt, because
we know the season is fleeting and any team in the country can beat us. ... It
allowed us to respect our opponent a lot more and realize we can get smacked by
anybody."

But like Ohio State last season, Clemson went through this season shouldering an
added load. They routinely played at a level below their perceived potential.
Finally, it caught up with them.

"Winning, it's hard," Watkins says. "Especially when everybody is giving you
everything they've got."

There's a lot more to it, of course, than increasing pressure or waning
motivation. You're everybody's biggest target. Sometimes the football just
bounces funny. Injuries occur. Team chemistry changes -- as one example: Ohio
State's path was complicated by the question of which quarterback should play.
Cardale Jones was named the starter going into the season; J.T. Barrett was
running things when, after the loss to Michigan State, the Buckeyes finally
morphed into who we all thought they were.

Regardless, for those Buckeyes, it came too late. And that brings us to the
other key difference in Clemson 2016 vs. Ohio State 2015.

Clemson's loss to Pittsburgh was painful. In many ways, it was much worse than
Ohio State's last season to Michigan State (which went on to win the Big Ten and
advance to the Playoff). But it ultimately wasn't nearly as penalizing.

Like the Buckeyes a year ago, the Tigers learned from the loss. Or they got
shaken loose from whatever ailed them. Or whatever. But in their last three
games, we've finally seen a bunch that looks as if it could win the national
championship that eluded the team last year.

And this is a pretty important difference from Ohio State 2015, too: The Tigers
still have that shot.

Unlike Michigan State's win against Ohio State, Pittsburgh's victory didn't
knock Clemson out of the conference championship picture. And the timing of the
loss was fortuitous, too. On that second weekend in November, several other
contenders went down, too. The Playoff rankings didn't change much at all. After
a 12-1 regular season, Clemson is safely in the Playoff.

Like with Ohio State last year, prosperity taught Clemson a terrible lesson.
Unlike the Buckeyes, the Tigers still have every opportunity to show us how much
they've learned.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Logan Bowles, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             260 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Dolphins' dreams rest with Moore's moxie

BYLINE: Lorenzo Reyes, @LorenzoGReyes, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 697 words


When Miami Dolphins offensive coordinator Clyde Christensen thinks of Matt
Moore, the backup quarterback to whom the franchise is entrusting its playoff
hopes, he recalls a former understudy -- and one who led his team to Super
BowlXL.

"He's always reminded me of (former Seattle Seahawks quarterback) Matt
Hasselbeck, from the day I walked in this building," said Christensen, the
former Indianapolis Colts assistant coach who worked with the now-retired
quarterback. "He could start for a bunch of teams."

At 9-5, the Dolphins sit in the second wild-card slot in the AFC, on the brink
of reaching the playoffs for the first time since 2008. With starting
quarterback Ryan Tannehill sidelined by a knee injury and his return uncertain,
Miami is counting on Moore.

The 10-year veteran passed his first test, beating the New York Jets on Saturday
in his first start in five seasons. Next up is a road trip to face the Buffalo
Bills (7-7) on Saturday.

Known for being a player who has patiently awaited his chances, Moore commands
respect in this locker room, even as the Dolphins invested in Tannehill time and
time again.

The team is stressing it is not concerned about entering the most important
stretch of the season with its regular starter on the sideline.

"When I use the term 'gunslinger,' it's a guy who just comes in and goes. Just
goes," Christensen said. "It's not that he takes stupid chances. It's not a
derogatory term. He walks down the main street of the Western, and he doesn't
have any fear. He walks down the main street, the guy shows up, and they have at
it. That's the mentality I think of with gunslinger -- not that you're careless.

"It's not a negative term to me. It's a positive."

Miami's coaches and players can talk Moore up all they want, but he never
reclaimed the starting reins after Tannehill was drafted in the first round in
2012 -- he later signed an extension through 2020 -- until now. Despite rough
patches  this season, Tannehill was blossoming before his injury, completing a
career-high 67.1% of his passes for 2,995 yards with 19 touchdowns and 12
interceptions.

Moore has proved to be a capable backup with a career 59.1% completion rate and
a 37-29 touchdown-to-interception ratio.

But he has started three or more games in a season four times in his career.
None of those teams reached the playoffs.

"He throws a really good deep ball," Bills coach Rex Ryan said of Moore on
Tuesday. "He may throw (the deep ball) better than Tannehill does."

Taking over for Tannehill after the the starter's Week 14 injury, Moore
completed 12 of 18 passes for 236 yards with four touchdowns and one
interception against the Jets. The performance earned him the AFC offensive
player of the week award.

But those numbers came against a leaky Jets defense tied for 27th in passing
touchdowns allowed. But Tannehill was held to 149 yards and one touchdown in the
Nov. 6 meeting with New York.

Buffalo should present a tougher test. Ryan's Bills rank eighth in the NFL in
passing defense, allowing 224.8 passing yards per game.

If Miami doesn't clinch a playoff berth this week, the real challenge could come
in the regular-season finale vs. the conference-leading New England Patriots
(12-2), whose defense cedes a league-low 16.6 points per game. But New England
might have reduced incentive, as it can clinch home-field advantage this week.

Tannehill, meanwhile, has been upbeat around the team's facility, players and
coaches said. Coach Adam Gase called the injury a sprain of the anterior
cruciate and medial collateral ligaments before adding that he could
definitively say the knee ligaments were not fully torn. But Tannehill crutched
through the locker room Wednesday with his knee in a hard cast, casting doubt
that he will recover in time.

"I take the same approach as almost anything else," Gase said. "When someone
tells me something different, I'll react then. I'm not going to start guessing."

The question facing Miami is simple: Is Moore good enough to keep the Dolphins
afloat and push them into the playoffs?

"There's no doubt in our mind that he can," wide receiver Jarvis Landry told
reporters after practice. "Obviously he's our starting quarterback now."

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Dennis Schneidler, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             261 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Wandering saga has payoff;
Quarterback Kline fulfills goal in fifth year, under sixth coach

BYLINE: Daniel Uthman, @DanUthman, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 2288 words


The first time it happened, Zach Kline had been a college football player for
four years and 11 months.

He had worn jersey Nos. 8,  3, 5, 17 and 10.

He had been issued playbooks by six coaches at four schools, all of which he
kept.

"I've been a Bear, a Roadrunner, a Sycamore, a Bear again, and a Bulldog," Kline
said.

Yet in five years of college, no Football Bowl Subdivision or Football
Championship Subdivision coach had ever said to Kline what Eric Kiesau said
Nov. 18.

"Hey, you're starting this week," Fresno State's interim head coach said during
practice.

The desire to be a starting quarterback prompted Kline to leave the University
of California after the 2013 season, Butte College after the 2014 season,
Indiana State after the 2015 season and Cal again after the 2016 spring practice
season.

At a time of year when hundreds of college football playing careers are coming
to an end, Kline's  path through four programs at three levels over five years
stands out as one of the most exceptional in the history of the sport. It also
provides a reminder that no matter how preordained success might seem based on a
recruit's rating -- Kline, with a big arm, was the No.3 quarterback in the
nation's high school class of 2012, according to the 247Sports Composite --
little in college football goes as planned.

The coach who signed Kline out of high school was gone after one season. The
next coach ran a spread system rather than the pro style to which Kline was
accustomed and chose a future No.1 overall NFL draft pick to run it. Coaches at
Indiana State and even at Kline's final destination, Fresno State, opted for
promising underclassmen over Kline's potent arm.

"To a weaker man, many of the things that happened to Zach Kline would crush
them," said Ron Coccimiglio, Cal football's director of career development and a
friend before, during and after Kline's time in Berkeley. "I think he would tell
you he's a better man today for what he's gone through than if he hadn't had
those challenges. Even if coaches keep telling Zach he's not their first choice,
success has a way of finding those who persevere."

Early lesson

Kline's sister, Aly Kline McGue, remembers the letters from college football
programs stacked 3feet high by the phone in the kitchen of their mother's home
in Danville, Calif., six years ago.

Only one program really mattered to Kline, and that was the one located in
nearby Berkeley and coached by Jeff Tedford. Kline's parents went through an
acrimonious divorce at the same time of his emergence as a national-caliber
recruit. He saw a therapist during that period, but it was Tedford who provided
the most relatable ear. He committed to Tedford and the Bears at age 16, a year
after his parents split.

"Really he was the father figure I needed in that time, and he fulfilled that
role," Kline said.

Kline enrolled early at Cal and welcomed a redshirt year to learn Tedford's
playbook, one he describes as a dense, NFL pro-style tome. But after that 2013
season, Tedford was fired and replaced by current Bears coach Sonny Dykes, who
brought a prolific but different style of offense from Louisiana Tech.

The winter term also brought Jared Goff to campus.

Eight months later, Goff was named the starter. Kline said he had never lost a
position battle, and he asked himself how he would deal with it. "It was the
first time going, 'Hmm, this is supposed to work out. Why isn't this working
out?'" he said.

Kline's father wanted him to leave Cal immediately, just before the 2013 season,
but Coccimiglio advised him differently: "I told him, 'You're in here, you made
a commitment to be with these guys, and if Jared got hurt and we didn't have a
quarterback, how would that look? Is that something that would bother you?'

"'Do the best you can and then evaluate it.'"

Kline appeared in seven of the Bears' 12 games, but after the season Cal
offensive coordinator Tony Franklin told him Goff would remain  the starter.
Kline remembers telling Franklin: "My goal is to be a starting quarterback in
college, and I want to play. I know I have the skills, so it's time for me to
leave."

Kline had made dozens of friendships at Cal and was well on his way to an
English degree. Still, Coccimiglio said, "When he left, everybody understood."

Learning to work

Kline enrolled at Butte College in tiny Oroville, Calif., about 80 miles north
of Sacramento. It's where Aaron Rodgers and numerous other FBS quarterbacks
launched their careers.

But Kline quickly realized the value of junior college was to focus on where he
was, not where he was going.

"The wheels started turning: Maybe I need to focus on a new way of doing
things," Kline said. "That was raw, bare-bones football. I learned so much."

Kline found a mentor in Jon Hays, who had gone from Butte to the University of
Utah as a player and was back in Oroville coaching quarterbacks. Hays taught
Kline how to prepare himself for practices and games, how to study defenses and
how a quarterback connects to a team in myriad ways.

The Butte experience stoked Kline with confidence as he accepted a full
scholarship to play quarterback at Indiana State, which competed in the best
conference in the FCS, had seen its senior quarterback graduate and was coached
by Mike Sanford Sr., whom Kline really liked. But two trends continued during
Kline's time in Terre Haute, Ind.: Kline made dozens of friends -- he's hosted
multiple Sycamores teammates in the Bay Area -- and he was unable to win the
starting quarterback job.

The Indiana State experience was made particularly difficult because, armed with
the knowledge gained at Butte, Kline knew he had put in the necessary work to
start for the Sycamores. But Kline rarely played, finishing the season 6-for-13
passing for 47 yards with no touchdowns.

"It was a hard situation," Kline said, "because I'm like, 'Wow, when I thought
it couldn't get worse, it got worse.'"

Isaac Harker, one of Kline's best friends on the team, was the one taking the
snaps. Kline cheered for him vociferously from the front of the sideline as
Harker led a game-winning drive against Youngstown State in the Sycamores' final
game of the 2015 season.

"I couldn't be happier for him," Kline said. "But also in that moment I'm like,
'Know what? I think God's telling me something.' At the end of that year I had
to come to the decision. I was just like, 'OK, am I going to quit football? How
much of this can I take?'"

Homeward bound

Kline took stock of his life, pinpointing what was most important to him at that
moment. He had the support of his longtime girlfriend Malia Mailes, his family
and his growing roster of friends.

"I would venture to say that everyone he's come in contact with would stand on
the table for Zach with anything that he's going to do," said Tedford, who
hosted Kline in camps at a young age and never lost touch. "I think his
perspective on where football fits is ... some people it's for life. Right? But
Zach has somehow figured out that football's a piece of it, that the
relationships are more important and what he really thrives on."

Many of those relationships, as well as a chance to complete a degree at one of
the country's top universities, resided in Berkeley. So this past winter Kline
moved in with his sister and her husband and re-enrolled at Cal.

"It was 100% to get the degree," Kline said. "I had no inclination to play
football. Zero."

But Kline had reached out to his personal coach, Will Hewlett, before leaving
Indiana State and told him, "I'm obviously not doing something right. I'm ready
to be coached. I'll do whatever you want me to do."

And once among former Cal teammates again, Kline felt an irresistible pull to
the game. One night he got back to his sister's house a little later than
expected.

"Where were you?" she asked him.

"Oh, I was throwing at the quarterback place," he said.

"Why were you doing that?" she asked.

"You know, just wanted to throw," he said.

Within a matter of days, he emailed Franklin about joining the Cal football team
as a walk-on, but Franklin declined Kline's interest. Before the end of January,
however, Franklin announced he was leaving Cal for a similar role at Middle
Tennessee State.

Meanwhile Kline kept working toward his English degree on campus and working
with Hewlett off campus.

I still have a year of eligibility left, Kline reasoned, so if I can put
together some workout film, maybe there's a school that would take me as a
graduate transfer.

"We started working together two, three times a week, and he just let go and let
me coach him," Hewlett said. "We transformed his entire delivery, how he moved
in the pocket, everything that caused issues in his play on the field. It was
positive for me, and it was positive for Zach. He was more consistent, he had
more control of his ball in terms of different speeds, and Zach can make any
throw."

And before spring practice, Bears wideout Patrick Worstell, Kline's best friend
since first grade, had a suggestion. "I had a gut feeling that he wasn't done,
that there was still some football left in Zach Kline," Worstell said.
"Eventually we had that conversation where I said, 'Why not go talk to Coach
(Sonny) Dykes about it, man?'"

Familiar feelings

Kline wore a tie the day he met Dykes in the middle of February. Another person
with an appointment to meet Dykes, representing a sports video company, saw
Kline and said, "Are you interviewing for a job?"

"Yeah, sort of," Kline replied.

Before meeting with Dykes, Kline had it in his mind that any role with the team
would be great, perhaps working with the equipment staff.

During their talk, Dykes was warm and inviting. Kline was humble, saying his
goal was to be a great teammate. Within minutes Dykes told him to get cleared by
compliance, get a lifting time from strength coach Damon Harrington and join the
team for workouts.

Kline could hardly believe it, and as he lined up with Cal's third string at the
start of spring practice March 7, he told himself, "I'm going to put everything
I have into this."

And he did. By the close of spring drills he was getting reps with the first
string and completed 15 of 16 passes for 202 yards and two touchdowns to
Melquise Stovall in the Bears spring game. "I ended up having one of the best
semesters of football I've probably ever had," he said. "I was like, 'This is
crazy.' A confidence booster, really."

Then, in early May, quarterback Davis Webb announced he would join Dykes and new
offensive coordinator Jake Spavital at Cal as a graduate transfer. Webb had been
coached by Kliff Kingsbury at Texas Tech in an offensive system with strong
similarities to Cal's. It was an ideal fit for everyone, except perhaps Kline.

"I wasn't mad at anybody," he said. "I talked to the coaches, and my dream still
was -- even after everything -- I want to start. That's what my goal still was,
and I needed to go again."

Seeing it through

Fresno State appealed to Kline for a few reasons: It was nearby; it didn't have
a settled starting quarterback situation; and it employed two people he knew
well in offensive coordinator Kiesau, who had been Cal's passing game
coordinator during Kline's high school recruitment, and wide receivers coach
Burl Toler III, a former Cal standout who had joined the Bears staff during
Kline's redshirt freshman season.

Kline decided that if he couldn't win the starting job coming out of preseason
drills, he would work his way into it. So he stayed in the coaches offices until
10:30 or 11 at night, did four times as much defensive study as was expected and
watched three hours of film each Sunday, Monday and Tuesday. He considered it
the ultimate compliment when a scout from the Cleveland Browns assumed he was a
graduate assistant coach because of the odd hours he was keeping.

After eight games and a 1-7 record, Fresno State fired head coach Tim DeRuyter
and promoted Kiesau for the remainder of the season. Three games later came
Kline's first career FBS start, a 14-13 home loss to Hawaii on Nov. 19. He
retained the role the next week, when the Bulldogs hosted San Jose State in
their season finale, a 16-14 loss. In his two starts he completed 23 of 40
passes for 253 yards and a rushing touchdown.

Tedford was there to witness Kline's finale, having accepted the head coaching
job at Fresno State, his alma mater, two weeks earlier. And so were more than
three dozen members of Kline's family, his girlfriend's family, his
brother-in-law's family and friends.

Kline was in the tunnel for the pregame introductions of seniors, while his
girlfriend, sister, brother-in-law, brother, mother and stepfather stood near
the 50-yard line. He had his mind on the offensive game plan and the Spartans
defensive scheme. And then he heard the public address announcer say, "And your
starting quarterback is Zach Kline."

He ran out of the tunnel, and the tears ran down his face before he was out of
the end zone. He hugged Kiesau. He hugged his girlfriend. He hugged his family.

"That was an emotionally charged moment," his sister said. "My mom's doing
great, I'm so proud of her. Zach runs up, and he is bawling. Bawling, bawling,
bawling. So much for keeping my mother in check, I can't keep my brother in
check! Then we all started crying again, because it was such a moment for him to
start his last game."

Coccimiglio, Hewlett and Worstell attribute Kline's place on that field to
Kline's relentlessly positive outlook, ability to build relationships and
throwing arm. Kline credits the five head coaches who went out of their way to
help him find so many chances.

His sister credits his drive and determination to find a new plan every time one
fell through.

"It's a really cool path," she said. "Although he wouldn't choose the path if he
was redoing it, it's totally made him who he is."

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Cary Edmondson, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             262 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

911 call reveals grandmother's horror in toddler's shooting;
Hunt goes on for suspect in Little Rock road- rage incident

BYLINE: John Bacon, @jmbacon, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 375 words


The manhunt for the gunman who fatally shot a 3-year-old child in a Little Rock
road-rage tragedy stretched to a fifth day Wednesday with no arrest or suspect
in the case.

Acen King was shot Saturday while sitting in the back seat of his grandmother's
2006 Dodge Charger following an altercation at a stop sign. Kim King-Macon, 47,
told police she  drove away, not realizing her grandson had been shot. The
horror was revealed when she arrived at a shopping mall 10 miles from the scene.

A 911 recording, released Tuesday, reflects the chaos and panic.

"A woman is saying this little kid's been shot," a female caller in the mall
parking lot tells the dispatcher. "She says she was getting him out of the car,
and that is when she realized he was shot."

King-Macon can be heard screaming in the background, "Acen has been shot! Oh my
God!"

The dispatcher wants to know who did it, but King-Macon says she doesn't know.

"I was at a stop sign and the guy blew a horn at me and I blew it back,"
King-Macon wails. "He shot but I thought he shot in the air. He shot at the
car!"

Acen was taken to a hospital where he died a short time later. No one else was
wounded.

King-Macon told police she had stopped at a stop sign when a man in a black
Chevrolet Impala apparently became angry with her. She said the man got out of
his car and fired one shot. She quickly drove off.

A $40,000 reward is being offered for information leading to a conviction in the
case. The FBI joined the investigation Monday.

The shooting marked the second time in less than a month that a child was
fatally shot while riding in a vehicle in the city. A 2-year-old girl riding in
the back seat of a car Nov. 22 was the victim of some type of drive-by shooting,
police Chief Kenton Buckner said.

"That is very, very frustrating to our police agency as it should be to our
community," Buckner said. "We cannot have a community where the least protected
among us, being infants, are dying (in) senseless crimes."

Gov. Asa Hutchinson said such cases reaffirm his support for the death penalty.

"Is there something I should be doing as governor whenever you see a 3-year-old
shot?" he told the Associated Press. "People have to be accountable for the most
egregious violent crimes in our society."

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo iStockphoto via Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             263 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

Germany hunts Tunisian suspect in truck attack

BYLINE: Kim Hjelmgaard, @khjelmgaard, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 290 words


German authorities scoured the nation and other European countries Wednesday,
looking for a Tunisian asylum seeker  wanted in connection with the truck
rampage at a Christmas market that killed 12 people and injured 48.

Investigators don't know if there is more than one perpetrator at large. In the
truck, documents were found belonging to a 24-year-old Tunisian national
identified by police as Anis Amri.

He was described as average height and weight, with black hair and brown eyes.
German authorities offered a reward of up to 100,000 euros for his arrest.
"Caution: He could be violent and armed," a notice warned. Police released a
picture of him.

Amri was under covert surveillance for several months after a tip from Germany's
federal security agencies, according to the Associated Press.

Authorities suspected he might try to buy a weapon to use in an attack. The
surveillance was called off in September.

Interior Minister Thomas de Maizière said the search for the suspect extended to
other countries in Europe's border-free zone.

German lawmaker Stephan Mayer said after being briefed by security officials
Wednesday that Amri, whose wallet was found in the truck, is thought to have
links to Islamic extremists. He said Amri was supposed to be deported from
Germany this year.

Ralf Jaeger, the interior minister of North Rhine-Westphalia, where Amri
registered for asylum, said authorities rejected his asylum application in July.

German magazine Spiegel reported that Amri is known by several aliases and has
three nationalities.

A previous suspect, a 23-year-old Pakistani asylum seeker, was released Tuesday
evening because prosecutors did not find enough evidence linking him to the
incident. He denied any involvement in the assault.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Markus Schreiber , AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             264 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Story stocks

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 160 words


Twitter

Change

-$0.83

% chg

-4.6%

Price: $17.08

Day's high: $17.55

Low: $17.01

In October, the social networking service said it would eliminate 9% of its
workforce. In November, the CFO left. Wednesday, the CTO said he's leaving the
company. The stock price has dropped six consecutive days and reached December's
low.

AMC Entertainment Holdings

Price: $34.70

Day's high: $35.00

Low: $33.35

Change

$1.25

%chg

3.7%

After agreeing to buy Carmike in July, the movie theater chain announced the
completion of the acquisition for about $1.1 billion. AMC now is the largest
movie theater chain in the USA with around 900 theaters and more than 10,000
globally.

Coca-Cola

Price: $41.57

Day's high: $41.83

Low: $41.52

Change

-$0.08

%chg

-0.2%

The beverage maker bought its stake in Coca-Cola Africa from Anheuser-Busch
InBev for about $3 billion as the maker of Budweiser beer continues to shed
assets after its merger. Coke's deal will give it a 54.5% equity stake. Shares
reversed an early jump.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             265 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Critic's Corner

BYLINE: Robert Bianco, @BiancoRobert, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 210 words


A Charlie Brown Christmas ABC, 8 ET/PT

Christmas is ever closer, bringing with it one of TV's greatest holiday  gifts:
Another helping  of this cherished classic. One of TV's Big 3 animated
Christmas  specials -- along with Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer and How the
Grinch Stole Christmas -- Charlie Brown is the simplest, the jazziest and the
most unabashedly spiritual, with its ever-more-relevant message about the
necessity of faith and the need to look past the trappings of Christmas to its
true meaning.

The Great American Baking Show ABC, 9 ET/PT

ABC follows Charlie Brown

with another great Christmas tradition: Baking. This special two-hour episode of
the British import sees contestants tackling chocolate delights and crème brûleé
under the watchful of eyes of judges Mary Berry and Johnny Iuzzini.

Remember the Night TCM, 9:45 ET/6:45 PT

Barbara Stanwyck and Fred

MacMurray star in this somewhat lesser-known Hollywood Christmas classic,
written by the great Preston Sturges and directed by Mitchell Leisen. It's one
of those rare holiday films that's able to mix comedy with sentiment without
being either unduly manic or unbearably sentimental. As such, it deserves to be
better known and more frequently aired, so feel free to aid the cause by
watching.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Mark Bourdillion, ABC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             266 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

The Force is strong in this 'Star Wars' movie ranking

BYLINE: Brian Truitt, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 623 words


Unless you've been held captive by a Wampa, crash-landed a TIE Fighter on Jakku
or were eaten by the Sarlacc -- we see you there, Boba Fett, keep hope alive --
it's probably not news that there's a Star Wars movie out.

For everybody who hasn't seen the Death Star  onscreen enough, Rogue One is the
flick for you.

Nerds and civilians alike are again busting out their Star Wars tapes and DVDs,
special editions or original recipe, and rewatching the seven previous films to
get jacked up for the first standalone Star Wars movie and eighth chapter in
this galactic saga. And fourth prequel if we're being technical.

We're no different. We binged them again, too, and these are the rankings you're
looking for, y'all -- including Rogue One.

1 'The Empire Strikes  Back' (1980)

Empire is like a Star Destroyer -- full of great scenes: Vader's reveal to Luke
about being the kid's father;  Luke training with Yoda and each kinda getting
ticked off;  Han and Leia's "I love you/I know" exchange before  he gets frozen
in carbonite.  It's the chapter that takes a cool sci-fi fairy tale with
Arthurian overtones and sends it on its way to being a masterwork of
storytelling.

2 'Star Wars' (1977)

The original remains the real deal mostly because of all the great  moments.
Luke  looking out over the  horizon of Tatooine and  knowing his destiny lies
beyond.  Han  explaining that hokey religions and ancient weapons are no match
for a good blaster.  Leia being  brave  as she faces  the destruction of her
planet.  We don't need to know much about their history  to quickly fall in
love.

3  'The Force Awakens' (2015)

Director J.J. Abrams gets dangerously close to recycling old material, but
instead he uses those familiar motifs to set the stage for an exciting third
trilogy and crafts arguably the best final shot ever in a Star Wars film.

4 'Return of the Jedi' (1983)

What makes this movie so special are all the satisfying conclusions. Luke
Skywalker (Mark Hamill) says goodbye to Yoda in a touching moment; and Leia
(Carrie Fisher) finding out about her sibling connection to Luke is emotional
but not cloying.  Check yourself for a pulse if you're not getting  chills  when
Vader says "Let me look on you with my own eyes" to Luke before dying.

5 'Rogue One:  A Star Wars Story' (2016)

For its maiden standalone voyage, Star Wars brass blended the old (the Rebel
Alliance freaking out about the construction of the Empire's mighty Death Star)
with something new (a war movie digging into the battlefields on land and in
space with insurgents rising up against "the Man"). The results are a mixed bag:
Jyn Erso (Felicity Jones) heads up armed misfits to steal the Death Star plans,
though a snarky droid ends up being the best character in the bunch. (For the
record, K-2SO is way cooler than C-3PO.)

6  'Revenge of  the Sith' (2005)

It's no coincidence that the prequel that's closest to the original trilogy in
tone, story and theme is the best one. Anakin finally has his full turn to the
Dark Side, though it's  a little whiplash-y how quickly he goes from broody,
anti-authoritarian kid to child-killing, baddest man in the galaxy.

7  'Attack of the Clones' (2002)

There are so many sleek special effects that you miss the  spit-and-gum
filmmaking of Lucas' originals. Also, Hayden Christensen and Natalie Portman
have zero chemistry as  lovers Anakin and Padmé.  All that said, Clones isn't a
bad film and it's pretty good whenever Ewan McGregor's Obi-Wan Kenobi is around.

8  'The Phantom  Menace' (1999)

George Lucas' prequels get a bad rap and, well, they kind of deserve it.  What
basically is a two-hour trailer for the rest of Anakin Skywalker's story is kind
of a mess -- he was immaculately conceived?  And as for Jar Jar Binks ... yeah.


LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Lucasfilm

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             267 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Book Buzz

BYLINE: Jocelyn McClurg

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 212 words


Holy Zeus: Lester Papadopoulos is a typical teenage boy in many ways, but he's
no ordinary 16-year-old. In fact, his Greek surname hints at his true identity:
he's Apollo, son of the Greek god Zeus, cast down to Earth as a mere mortal as
punishment by his really annoyed dad. Now Lester/Apollo is back in The Dark
Prophecy, The Trials of Apollo, the second book in a five-book series for young
readers by Rick Riordan. It's due on May 2 from Disney-Hyperion, and USA TODAY
has a first look at the jacket and an exclusive excerpt at books.usatoday.com.
The first book, The Hidden Oracle, hit No. 2 in May.

'Therapy' session: The thousands of colorful sticky notes that became a mass cri
de coeur in the New York City subway system after the presidential election will
now make their way into a book. The publisher Bloomsbury tells USA TODAY it will
publish Subway Therapy by artist Matthew "Levee" Chavez in October 2017. Chavez
(Levee is his artistic moniker) provided Post-Its to subway riders who wanted to
express their feelings after the contentious election, and soon a wall in the
Union Square station was filled with countless messages. Widely covered in the
media, the wall is now a memory -- the notes were removed  Dec. 16. But they'll
be remembered in Chavez's book.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo KENA BETANCUR, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             268 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

2016 ALL-USA FOOTBALL TEAM

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 8C

LENGTH: 1617 words


OFFENSIVE PLAYER OF THE YEAR

Tate Martell

QB, 5-11, 205,

Bishop Gorman, Las Vegas

Details: Ohio State commit never lost a game in three years as a starter for the
Gaels. Led team to a 15-0 record, third consecutive Super 25 title and eighth
consecutive state title, completing 136 of 215 passes for 2,362 yards and 41
touchdowns and rushing for 1,257 yards and 21 touchdowns.

My  best friend would describe me: As outgoing and fun. I guess my best friend
would say I care about people in general.

Biggest thing I learned this year: A lesson I learned from Trent Dilfer. He was
telling us in his career, he struggled the first couple of years with being a
top pick and trying to live up to that. When he got to the Ravens, he made
himself worry about the team goals and not his own. That's when everything
works.

Fourth-and-20 with two minutes left, what's my call? It depends on what I see.
Normally, you  have to take what they give you. In that situation, you would
probably get a Cover 4 defense. I might go for four verticals (receivers) with a
bender.

Biggest accomplishment at Gorman: Going undefeated. What else do you need to do?
I could care less if I don't have good stats.

I don't like to: Punt the ball, and I'm our team's punter.

Last book read: Urban Meyer's book, "Above the Line: Lessons in Leadership and
Life from a Championship Season."

Post-football plan: I would like to be a television sports commentator.

Trait a successful quarterback needs: Confidence.

Last team that beat me: East Lake from San Diego (as a freshman at Poway,
Calif.).

DEFENSIVE PLAYER OF THE YEAR

Shaun Wade

DB, 6-1, 177, Trinity Christian, Jacksonville

Details: Ohio State commit led team to its fourth consecutive state title with
63 tackles and seven interceptions. Also had 690 all-purpose yards and six
touchdown catches.

My best friend would describe me as: A quiet, humble and laid-back guy. I'm very
athletic, so when we're picking sides for any sport, people want me on the team.

Biggest thing I learned this year: Just learning how to trust different people
and leading younger people. There were a lot of younger players on our team, and
I had to step up.

When the other team is at its 20 on fourth-and-20 with two minutes left: On
defense, I look to keep everything in front of us. We'll probably go to Cover 2
or 4.

Cartoon character that describes me: Spider-Man or Superman.

Biggest accomplishment at TCA: Winning four state championships in a row.

I don't like to: Sit in the car for a long time. I'm used to it, but I don't
like to do it. I also don't like drama.

Favorite food, movie, book, song: Chicken, "Love & basketball" and Tim Tebow's
book, "Shaken: Discovering Your True Identity in the Midst of Life's Storms."

Post-football plan: To have a good job and give back to the kids.

Persons who inspired me: My dad (Randy Wade) and my granddad. My granddad,
Curtis Green, played for the Detroit Lions (from 1981 to 1989). My dad taught me
a lot of things through life.

FIRST-TEAM OFFENSE

Cam Akers, QB, 5-11, 212, Clinton (Miss.)

Led the Arrows to a 14-1 record and the Class 6A state championship. Passed for
3,101 yards and 31 touchdowns and rushed for 2,094 yards and 34 scores. Has not
committed.

Calvin Ashley, OL, 6-6, 310, St. John's College (Washington, D.C.)

Auburn commit was a dominant blocker for the Cadets, who finished 8-4 against a
difficult schedule.

Wyatt Davis, OL, 6-5, 310, St. John Bosco (Bellflower, Calif.)

Ohio State commit led team to state Open Division Championship. Propelled
offense that averaged nearly 300 yards per game rushing and more than 200yards
per game passing. Grandson of Pro Football Hall of Fame defensive end Willie
Davis.

Najee Harris, RB, 6-3, 226, Antioch (Calif.)

Alabama commit finished career as No.4 all-time rusher in the state with 7,947
career yards, including 2,775 yards as a senior. Ran for 34 touchdowns and
caught two TD passes.

Blake Haubeil, K, 6-4, 225, Canisius (Buffalo)

Ohio State commit had school-record 56 extra points, had 53 touchbacks on
76kickoffs and made six of nine field goal tries, with long of 47 yards. Helped
team win state Catholic championship.

Josh Myers, OL, 6-6, 306 (Miamisburg, Ohio)

Ohio State commit bench-presses 435pounds, did a one-handed 155-pound power
snatch and helped team to first 10-win season under modern playoff format.

Donovan Peoples-Jones, WR, 6-2, 200, Cass Tech (Detroit)

Michigan commit caught 60 passes for 1,071 yards and led team to 14-0 record and
Division I state title, averaging 17.8 yards per catch. Also had four
interceptions.

Foster Sarell, OL, 6-7, 317, Graham-Kapowsin (Graham, Wash.)

Huge blocker with quick feet helped propel team to 46.8points per game. Has not
committed.

Trey Smith, OL, 6-6, 299, University School of Jackson (Jackson, Tenn.)

Tennessee commit played both ways. Had 66 tackles on defense and is a two-time
state OL Mr. Football.

D'Andre Swift, RB, 5-10, 208, St.Joseph's Prep (Philadelphia)

Georgia commit ran for 1,564 yards and 21 TDs in 10 games. Also had 405
receiving yards and five touchdown catches. Led team to state 6A title.

Jeff Thomas, WR, 5-10, 170, East St.Louis (Ill.)

Led team to 7A state championship with 58 catches for 1,198 yards and 15TDs. Has
not committed.

FIRST-TEAM DEFENSE

Bubba Bolden, DB, 6-3, 185, Bishop Gorman (Las Vegas)

He helped his team win its eighth consecutive state title with seven
interceptions, a blocked field goal and touchdowns on a fumble return and an
interception for a team that did not allowed more than 24 points in a game. Has
not committed.

Pressley Harvin III, P, 6-0, 235, Sumter (S.C.)

Georgia Tech commit had 28punts for a 42.7-yard average and a long punt of 72
yards.

Anthony Hines III, LB, 6-3, 230, Plano East (Plano, Texas)

Texas A&M commit had 138 solo tackles with 38 for losses and six sacks. He also
had two interceptions and a fumble recovery.

Joshua Kaindoh, DL, 6-6, 235, IMG Academy (Bradenton, Fla.)

He had 41 tackles and 71/2 sacks for the 11-0 Ascenders. Has not committed.

Richard LeCounte III, DB, 5-11, 178, Liberty County (Hinesville, Ga.)

Georgia commit had 100 tackles, caused two fumbles, had two interceptions and
led the team with 22 TDs, including 17 as a receiver and four on various
returns.

Nate McBride, LB, 6-2, 220, Vidalia (Ga.)

He had 115 tackles with three sacks and an interception. He also ran for eight
touchdowns. Has not committed.

Dylan Moses, LB, 6-2, 235, IMG Academy (Bradenton, Fla.)

Alabama commit had 106 tackles, with eight for losses, in nine games.

Jeffrey Okudah, DB, 6-2, 197, South Grand Prairie (Grand Prairie, Texas)

Teams threw away from him, but he broke up five passes and had a fumble
recovery, 35 unassisted tackles and eight tackle assists. He  had 405 yards and
a TD on kickoff returns. Has not committed.

Jaelan Phillips, DL, 6-5, 241, Redlands East Valley, (Redlands, Calif.)

UCLA commit led team with 142tackles and 21sacks. He also blocked a field goal
and scored touchdowns on punt and interception returns.

JaCoby Stevens, DB, 6-2, 200, Oakland (Murfreesboro, Tenn.)

LSU commit had nine interceptions and 64 tackles. He also had 38 receptions for
690 yards and 12TDs as a wide receiver and three TD returns.

Marvin Wilson, DL, 6-5, 333, Episcopal (Bellaire, Texas)

He had 42 tackles, including 19 for losses and nine sacks. Has not committed.

COACH OF THE YEAR

Kevin Kelley

Pulaski Academy, Little Rock

Details: Innovative coach, using an offense that doesn't punt and has frequent
rugby-style laterals, won his third consecutive 5A state title. His overall
record is 165-25-1 in 14 years as Pulaski's head coach. His teams have made it
to the state semifinals in 12 of those seasons and have won six state titles in
eight attempts.

Why more coaches don't adopt my methods: It's simply risk aversion. People are
scared they will have to suffer ridicule by fans, players and the media.

Why I tried a no-punt offense: We had started looking for something different.
We couldn't make it to the championship game. Then, trying something new was
like a little kid who's scared of ice cream. Once you try it, you're almost
starving, and you can't get enough.

My best friend would describe me as: Probably passionate and competitive and
willing to do anything for people he believes in.

Biggest thing I learned this year: I'm constantly trying to learn. Honestly,
probably what I learned is to inspire others to take ownership in a program or
take ownership in something. I think I learned to do that a lot better this
year.

Cartoon character that describes me: Tasmanian Devil.

Biggest accomplishment at Pulaski Academy: Probably that I've been here for 20
years (his first six as an assistant). When I first came, I thought there was no
way I would be here 20 years. I have some out-there ideas. People wear out their
welcome when they're like that.

I don't like to: Stand in line.

Individual who inspired me: My mom. She passed a couple of years ago. For a long
time growing up, she was a single mom who had to raise my sisters and I. She had
to teach me about hard work and persistence. She was an out-of-box thinker.
Nobody in my family had graduated from college. She changed that for me.

Trait a successful coach needs: Leadership and getting people to buy in. Not
enough coaches get people to buy in.

Silliest thing I've had a college recruiter say: I don't have to name who it is,
right? One offered to meet me at a casino and stake my card-counting.

ABOUT THIS PAGE

The American Family Insurance All-USA Football Team was chosen by USA TODAY
Sports' Jim

Halley in consultation with high school coaches and recruiting analysts. All
selections are

seniors and all statistics are from this season, unless otherwise noted. For
second-team selections,

see 7C. For photo galleries and much more, visit usatodayhss.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Nelson Chenault, USA TODAY Sports USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             269 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Germany hunts Tunisian suspect in truck attack

BYLINE: Kim Hjelmgaard, @khjelmgaard, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 290 words


German authorities scoured the nation and other European countries Wednesday,
looking for a Tunisian asylum seeker  wanted in connection with the truck
rampage at a Christmas market that killed 12 people and injured 48.

Investigators don't know if there is more than one perpetrator at large. In the
truck, documents were found belonging to a 24-year-old Tunisian national
identified by police as Anis Amri.

He was described as average height and weight, with black hair and brown eyes.
German authorities offered a reward of up to 100,000 euros for his arrest.
"Caution: He could be violent and armed," a notice warned. Police released a
picture of him.

Amri was under covert surveillance for several months after a tip from Germany's
federal security agencies, according to the Associated Press.

Authorities suspected he might try to buy a weapon to use in an attack. The
surveillance was called off in September.

Interior Minister Thomas de Maizière said the search for the suspect extended to
other countries in Europe's border-free zone.

German lawmaker Stephan Mayer said after being briefed by security officials
Wednesday that Amri, whose wallet was found in the truck, is thought to have
links to Islamic extremists. He said Amri was supposed to be deported from
Germany this year.

Ralf Jaeger, the interior minister of North Rhine-Westphalia, where Amri
registered for asylum, said authorities rejected his asylum application in July.

German magazine Spiegel reported that Amri is known by several aliases and has
three nationalities.

A previous suspect, a 23-year-old Pakistani asylum seeker, was released Tuesday
evening because prosecutors did not find enough evidence linking him to the
incident. He denied any involvement in the assault.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Markus Schreiber , AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             270 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

911 call reveals grandmother's horror in toddler's shooting;
Hunt goes on for suspect in Little Rock road- rage incident

BYLINE: John Bacon, @jmbacon, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 375 words


The manhunt for the gunman who fatally shot a 3-year-old child in a Little Rock
road-rage tragedy stretched to a fifth day Wednesday with no arrest or suspect
in the case.

Acen King was shot Saturday while sitting in the back seat of his grandmother's
2006 Dodge Charger following an altercation at a stop sign. Kim King-Macon, 47,
told police she  drove away, not realizing her grandson had been shot. The
horror was revealed when she arrived at a shopping mall 10 miles from the scene.

A 911 recording, released Tuesday, reflects the chaos and panic.

"A woman is saying this little kid's been shot," a female caller in the mall
parking lot tells the dispatcher. "She says she was getting him out of the car,
and that is when she realized he was shot."

King-Macon can be heard screaming in the background, "Acen has been shot! Oh my
God!"

The dispatcher wants to know who did it, but King-Macon says she doesn't know.

"I was at a stop sign and the guy blew a horn at me and I blew it back,"
King-Macon wails. "He shot but I thought he shot in the air. He shot at the
car!"

Acen was taken to a hospital where he died a short time later. No one else was
wounded.

King-Macon told police she had stopped at a stop sign when a man in a black
Chevrolet Impala apparently became angry with her. She said the man got out of
his car and fired one shot. She quickly drove off.

A $40,000 reward is being offered for information leading to a conviction in the
case. The FBI joined the investigation Monday.

The shooting marked the second time in less than a month that a child was
fatally shot while riding in a vehicle in the city. A 2-year-old girl riding in
the back seat of a car Nov. 22 was the victim of some type of drive-by shooting,
police Chief Kenton Buckner said.

"That is very, very frustrating to our police agency as it should be to our
community," Buckner said. "We cannot have a community where the least protected
among us, being infants, are dying (in) senseless crimes."

Gov. Asa Hutchinson said such cases reaffirm his support for the death penalty.

"Is there something I should be doing as governor whenever you see a 3-year-old
shot?" he told the Associated Press. "People have to be accountable for the most
egregious violent crimes in our society."

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo iStockphoto via Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             271 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

SHOCK WAVES STILL RIPPLE FROM BREAKUP

BYLINE: Kim Hjelmgaard

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1084 words


MOSCOW -- Twenty-five years ago this Christmas Day, the Soviet Union
disappeared.

A superpower was suddenly gone and 15 new countries appeared in its place:
Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan,
Turkmenistan, Georgia, Azerbaijan, Moldova, Armenia, Estonia, Latvia and
Lithuania.

"The Soviet Union broke up without a civil war, thank God," says Yevgeny
Roizman, 54, a historian and mayor of Yekaterinburg, Russia's third-largest
city, which borders Siberia. "But huge empires always go down with a lot of
noise. The process is not over. It will be many years before all the damage can
be undone."

Indeed, political systems, economies, cultures and military alliances have
undergone varying transformations that continue in some countries and have
stalled or reversed in others. "Now, it's like the Soviet era is a phantom
pain," Roizman adds.

People who remember living under the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics -- the
USSR -- have mixed feelings whether those were the good old days or the bad old
days.

In Kazan, in central Russia, Alexander Andreev, 64, a retired oil worker,
recalls the end of Soviet life as a time of chronic food shortages. His his wife
would wake him at 5 a.m. so he could stand outside the store near their home in
hopes of buying an item before it ran out. "It was only a few minutes' walk away
and it didn't open until 6 a.m. Most days there would be a long line. If I was
in the first 10 we would get cottage cheese or sour cream. If not, only milk,"
he says.

"I cried so much," says Andreev's wife, Tatiana, 65, of this period. "I was
worried about the children. We were constantly adding things to the food to make
it go further," she says. "Now, within reason, we can buy anything. Different
kinds of cars. We can travel. We don't want to go back."

But her husband is a bit nostalgic. While Communism was not a political system
he admired, the Soviet Union was a place where there was "real unity" between
the people of the different republics. "In this way, (Russian President
Vladimir) Putin was right," Andreev says. "The breakup was the worst thing that
happened to us."

TEXT OF FULL PAGE GRAPHIC:

COLLAPSE OF THE SOVIET UNION

25TH ANNIVERSARY

7 UNEXPECTED THINGS THAT HAVE HAPPENED SINCE THE 1991 BREAKUP

1. WEALTH GAP GROWS

After 74 years of authoritarian communist rule in which supposedly everyone was
equal, Russia is one of the world's most unequal countries, according to a 2016
Credit Suisse global wealth report: 75% of its wealth is controlled by the
richest 1%. In 1991, there were no billionaires in Russia. Today, there are 77
with a combined net worth of $283 billion, according to Forbes' list of richest
people.

2. CHANGE IS TRAUMATIC

The transition to new systems was cataclysmic. "It wasn't the collapse of the
Soviet Union that was the problem," says Michael McFaul, U.S. ambassador to
Russia from 2012 to 2014. "It was the economic dislocation. It created an
economic depression that was far harsher than what was experienced in the United
States in the 1930s."

3. BALTICS LOOK WEST

The tiny Baltic nations of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania have joined the
European Union and NATO and adopted a Western liberal democratic order. But they
are nervous about their vulnerability to Russian expansion, fearing they would
be easiest to swallow up and wondering if U.S. President-elect Donald Trump will
uphold NATO members' commitment to defend any other member that is attacked.

4. SATELLITES VEER OFF

Former Soviet-sphere nations in Europe have gone their own way. Poland, free of
Soviet dominance, has turned western to become the largest economy in Central
Europe. It is now a member of the EU and NATO, along with former Soviet
satellites Bulgaria, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovenia and Romania.

5. REPRESSION PERSISTS

Belarus is one of the world's most repressive regimes, where criticizing the
president can lead to a lengthy jail term. Uzbekistan and other ex-Soviet
Central Asian "Stans" have enjoyed stable leadership and big oil revenues, but
corruption and human rights abuses remain endemic. "It's becoming harder and
harder to speak out against these crimes and it is worse now than it's been at
any point since Soviet times," says Svetlana Gannushkina, 74, a former Russian
lawmaker, now a human rights lawyer. Gannushkina is regularly named as a
potential Nobel peace prize winner.

In Russia's predominantly Muslim and restive province of Chechnya, "there is no
law, no constitution, only the order of (Chechnya leader) Ramzan Kadyrov,"
Gannushkina says of Russian President Vladimir Putin's ally. Human Rights Watch
and Amnesty International say Kadyrov uses public shaming, torture and
abductions to keep a tight grip on the province, which waged a guerrilla war for
independence against Russia for more than a decade before conceding defeat in
2009.

6.RUSSIAN DEMOCRACY FADES

Russia embraced democracy after the Soviet breakup but has been sliding back
toward authoritarianism. Putin, who has called the collapse of the Soviet Union
the "greatest geopolitical catastrophe of the 20th century," has undermined
civil liberties as he tightens his grip on power. He has jailed critics, imposed
restrictions on news and social media, reclaimed Crimea from West-leaning
Ukraine, abetted pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine, cracked down on
foreign non-profit groups and stoked the flames of right-wing nationalism.

After years of neglect, the military has been restored and has taken a lead role
in Syria to help President Bashar Assad win a 5-year-old civil war. "Putin
thinks the state is legitimate because it is the state," says Alex Kliment, a
Russia specialist at Eurasia Group, a political risk consultancy. "He has a
philosophical belief that popular revolutions against state power are always
illegitimate, and always end in tears."

7. RUSSIA TILTS TO TRUMP

Russia has developed one of the world's most sophisticated cyber-warfare
networks -- one that the CIA believes interfered in America's election to help
Donald Trump. The president-elect has dismissed the allegation, but Congress
vows to look into it. Whatever the outcome of that investigation, Russia and
Trump seem to be on a path toward friendship and international cooperation that
would have been inconceivable after Russia reclaimed Crimea in 2014. Trump has
spoken positively about Putin and his choice for secretary of State, ExxonMobil
CEO Rex Tillerson, who has negotiated energy deals with Russia, said he has "a
very close relationship" with Putin.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             272 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Facebook brings live audio to platform

BYLINE: Jefferson Graham, @jeffersongraham, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 177 words


Facebook is expanding its Live platform to include just audio.

As with many other Facebook launches, the new platform, announced Tuesday, is
currently only available to a handful of preselected partners. Facebook says it
will open it up  "early next year."

The move could provide  heated competition for audio service SoundCloud,  the
primary way for consumers to share audio clips on Facebook and other social
networks. Berlin-based SoundCloud has 175 million registered users to the
1.7billion Facebook base.

In a blog post, Facebook said it envisioned live audio as a feature for those
who didn't want the bother of adding the video layer but still wanted to
broadcast live. With Facebook Live, broadcasts generally are generated from the
mobile  app. Additionally, Facebook said that in areas with poor connectivity,
audio live broadcasts will be easier to pull off than video because of less
constraints for the smaller, audio files.

Preselected partners for the  experiment include the BBC, book publisher Harper
Collins and authors Adam Grant and Britt Bennett.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             273 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

8 gifts for a host with the most;
A temp Oval Office in the Northwest Passage for incoming President Trump?

BYLINE: Jill Lawrence, USA TODAY

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 763 words


What do you get for the president-elect who has it all, most of it encrusted in
gold? Christmas shopping for Donald Trump is a challenge. But there are a few
items he might appreciate under his tree nevertheless. And the ones he doesn't
appreciate, well, he needs those most of all.

So here are eight gifts for an incoming president that he probably hasn't
requested and that might not have occurred to his friends and family:

"Unprecedented adventures and unsurpassed luxury" on a cruise from Anchorage to
New York through the Northwest Passage. This is a long trip, 32 days starting in
August, but the Crystal Serenity is boat enough to be able to handle a replica
Oval Office (a set, if you will) from which the celebrity president could
conduct business (perform, if you will). We're talking penthouses with verandas
and Riedel stemware. It's not Trump Tower, true. But here's what makes this
irresistible (aside from the chance to go AWOL from D.C. during the swampiest
time of the year): It's a prime opportunity for Trump to tout the economic
benefits of global warming, such as expected booms in tourism and other
industries along the formerly frozen Northwest Passage. It's also an exciting
chance to see polar bears that moved north to find more ice. Fares start at
$21,855, and you can bet it will cost a lot more to accommodate a President
Trump, but you can also bet that Melania and the kids -- and we taxpayers -- can
afford it.

Fast-food mix pack of gift cards for Taco Bell, Kentucky Fried Chicken, Hardee's
and Carl's Jr. Let no one doubt that Trump is a man of the people.

Fancy reproduction of George Washington's annotated copy of the Constitution,
laminated in anticipation of heavy use. His job being so new at the time,
Washington went through the document and wrote "president" next to each section
that explained some executive power this just invented "president" needed to
worry about. The result is a cheat sheet for a novice with a short attention
span.

President's Daily Brief flashcards pack, for the busy chief executive on the run
from country to country, from Trump hotel to Trump hotel, who wants to keep up
with threats to the homeland. Sample question: Which foreign leader was
personally involved with hacking the Democratic National Committee?

Free passes for Dad and his five kids to see the new film Two Presidents at a
Time, a madcap comedy (and maybe someday even a real one!) about a
president-elect who launches his own foreign policy three months before taking
office. From humiliations and confusion to an inadvertent trade war and a barely
averted real war, many mishaps and pratfalls ensue as the incoming chief
executive pals around with dictators, upends world relationships, and keeps tens
of millions entertained with his refreshingly spontaneous tweets and phone
conversations.

Presidential Tweets for All Occasions, a (hopefully soon to be written) guide
for the propriety-, empathy- and diplomacy-impaired commander in chief hacking a
path through the social media jungle. Yes: "Our prayers are with those injured
and killed early this morning in horrifying act of terror in Orlando." No:
"Appreciate the congrats for being right on radical Islamic terrorism, I don't
want congrats, I want toughness & vigilance. We must be smart!" Yes: "My heart
breaks for Aleppo." No: "Has anyone looked at the really poor numbers of
@VanityFair Magazine. Way down, big trouble, dead! Graydon Carter, no talent,
will be out!"

Sampler and throw pillows tastefully cross-stitched with this message (thanks
to the Politico leadership): "POTUS is representing America at all times and on
all platforms, and must present himself accordingly."

Give Please a Chance, the (real) new best-seller by Bill O'Reilly and James
Patterson that teaches children the value of being polite and how "one small
word can move mountains." I know what you're thinking. Why try to persuade
children to be nice when the incoming president rose to the top in business, TV
and politics by being a rude and vulgar bully? Why encourage gentle behavior
guidelines that will be crushed, mocked and contravened by reality 10 times a
day for the next four years? How could O'Reilly, a Trump devotee, write this
with a straight face?

Let's set all that aside for Christmas, thankfully restored to its properly
exalted status in America by the incoming president and O'Reilly himself.
Because O'Reilly is the lead co-author on this book, maybe Trump will read it
and maybe, in the spirit of Christmas, he'll even take it to heart.

Jill Lawrence is the commentary editor of USA TODAY.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             274 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Brazilian firms to pay $3.5B to settle bribery scheme;
Officials say penalties could hit record $4.5B

BYLINE: Ledyard King, @LedgeKing, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 286 words


The U.S. Justice Department said two Brazilian companies have agreed to pay the
U.S., Brazil and Switzerland at least $3.5 billion in penalties to resolve a
massive foreign bribery scheme involving officials on three continents.

The settlement with Brazilian construction giant Odebrecht and  petrochemical
company Braskemto was reached under the anti-bribery provisions of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act.

With the possibility combined penalties could reach $4.5 billion, officials said
it's the largest settlement ever agreed to under FCPA.

Wednesday, Odebrecht pleaded guilty to a one-count criminal information filed by
the Criminal Division's Fraud Section and the U.S. Attorney's Office in the U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of New York, charging the company with
conspiracy to violate the anti-bribery provisions of the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act.

According to a Justice Department release, Odebrecht's "massive and unparalleled
bribery and bid-rigging scheme" began in 2001.

Over that period, the company created a "department of bribery" using shell
companies, off-book transactions and off-shore bank accounts to pay about $788
million to government officials, their representatives and political parties in
a number of countries (including Argentina, Mexico and the Dominican Republic),
to win government contracts.

Federal prosecutors got involved because Odebrecht, its employees and agents
took a number of steps while in the U.S. to further the scheme, officials said.

In a statement, Odebrecht apologized for its actions.

"It deeply regrets its role in the conduct giving rise to this resolution and
apologizes for violating its own principles of honesty and ethics," the
statement  said.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo YASUYOSHI CHIBA, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             275 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Google charitable donations set record

BYLINE: Jessica Guynn, @jguynn, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 269 words


Google's third annual Global Giving Week netted $24 million, double what it
raised last year, as employees spread the wealth.

Donations by employees to civil liberties and women's health organizations
surged, raising nearly $800,000 for Planned Parenthood. Some 1,200 Google
employees shared stories about their support for organizations, and a third of
Google employees pledged donations to 750 non-profits around the world, the
Internet giant said.

Donations from Google employees during giving week, which ran from Dec. 5 to
Dec. 9, were matched by Google. Google matches employee donations up to $6,000 a
year. Individual Google employees can also sponsor and match fellow employees'
donations during giving week, potentially tripling the donation.

More than $800,000 was raised for Second Harvest FoodBank, more than $450,000
for Give Directly, which gives cash to the extremely poor, and nearly $326,000
for the International Rescue Committee. Other causes embraced by Google
employees ranged from supporting victims and survivors of the Ghost Ship fire in
Oakland to fighting hunger and malnutrition in India.

Even after the giving week ended, the giving did not. With the situation
deteriorating in Aleppo, Syria, three Google employees recently started a
project called Help Aleppo that in four days raised about $341,000 that was
split three ways between the International Rescue Committee, Mercy Corps and
UNHCR, the United Nation's refugee agency.

Separately, Google.org is donating $30 million in technology, hardware and
training to various organizations, schools and refugee and migrant camps in
Africa.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             276 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Apple's Cook says attending tech summit a matter of engagement;
CEO tells staff 'we very much stand up for what we believe in'

BYLINE: Jon Swartz, @jswartz, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 337 words


Apple CEO Tim Cook said he felt it was necessary to "engage" when
President-elect Donald Trump -- who has railed against Apple and other tech
firms -- invited him and about a dozen tech executives to attend a summit in New
York last week.

"Personally, I've never found being on the sideline a successful place to be,"
Cook told employees on Apple's internal employee information service. "The way
that you influence these issues is to be in the arena. So whether it's in this
country, or the European Union, or in China or South America, we engage.

"And we engage when we agree and we engage when we disagree. I think it's very
important to do that because you don't change things by just yelling. You change
things by showing everyone why your way is the best. In many ways, it's a debate
of ideas."

The comments were first reported by news site TechCrunch.

Cook and some of tech's biggest names -- Alphabet CEO Larry Page, Microsoft CEO
Satya Nadella, Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, Tesla CEO Elon Musk and IBM CEO Ginni
Rometty, among them -- met with Trump to discuss jobs, immigration policy,
China, cybersecurity and corporate tax rates.

"Some of our key areas of focus are on privacy and security, education," Cook
said. "They're on advocating for human rights for everyone, and expanding the
definition of human rights. They're on the environment and really combating
climate change, something we do by running our business on 100% renewable
energy."

Trump, who dinged Apple over security and jobs and Amazon on corporate taxes,
told the assembled execs at Trump Tower, "I want to add that I'm here to help
you folks do well."

Trump called the meeting productive, but many in Silicon Valley questioned the
participation of the executives, most of whom supported Democrat Hillary
Clinton.

Cook offered a reason his CEO brethren probably agree with -- better to
participate than pass.

"We very much stand up for what we believe in," Apple's CEO concluded. "We think
that's a key part of what Apple is about. And we'll continue to do so."

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Evan Vucci, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             277 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Like the rest of us, Zuckerberg has tough time creating a 'smart home';
Facebook founder building system that's inspired by 'Iron Man'

BYLINE: Jessica Guynn, @jguynn, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 667 words


Artificial intelligence is moving into our homes, particularly Mark
Zuckerberg's. But this stuff of science fiction may still be more fantasy than
utility for now.

The Facebook founder and CEO, who for the last year has been building a smart
system inspired by the Iron Man character Jarvis as a virtual butler to run his
household, updated followers on the project's progress Monday.

His conclusion so far? Hooking up artificially intelligent homes may not be
ready for prime time, at least for most of us.

With the Jarvis project, Zuckerberg wanted to use his voice to control
everything in his house, from the music to the lights to the temperature. He
also wanted Jarvis to swing open the front gate for friends by recognizing their
faces. Essentially, the Jarvis project is like Zuckerberg's homemade version of
Amazon's Alexa service or Google's Home.

Nearly a year ago, the Facebook CEO said he planned to build an AI system as one
of the personal growth challenges he gives himself each year. For Zuckerberg,
this was a return to his programming roots. This isn't the first time he has
returned to coding. His personal growth challenge in 2012 was to code every day.
But this challenge connected him to a new wave of computer science that is vital
to his company's growth.

"My goal was to learn about the state of artificial intelligence -- where we're
further along than people realize and where we're still a long ways off. These
challenges always lead me to learn more than I expected, and this one also gave
me a better sense of all the internal technology Facebook engineers get to use,
as well as a thorough overview of home automation," Zuckerberg said in a
Facebook post.

"So far this year, I've built a simple AI that I can talk to on my phone and
computer, that can control my home, including lights, temperature, appliances,
music and security, that learns my tastes and patterns, that can learn new words
and concepts, and that can even entertain Max," his daughter.

Morgan Freeman, known for his iconic timbre, has agreed to voice the assistant.

Artificial intelligence is increasingly climbing behind the wheel of driverless
cars and nudging smartphones to get smarter by delivering relevant information
unprompted. Amazon is even testing a supermarket system with no cash registers.
But the technology is not yet up to the ambitions of technologists.

One of the biggest challenges Zuckerberg faced: connecting all of his home
devices.

First he had to write code to connect all these different systems that speak
different languages, he said.

"We use a Crestron system with our lights, thermostat and doors, a Sonos system
with Spotify for music, a Samsung TV, a Nest cam for Max, and of course my work
is connected to Facebook's systems. I had to reverse-engineer APIs (application
programming interfaces) for some of these to even get to the point where I could
issue a command from my computer to turn the lights on or get a song to play,"
Zuckerberg wrote.

A central problem: Most appliances aren't connected to the Internet yet, he
said.

"For example, one thing I learned is it's hard to find a toaster that will let
you push the bread down while it's powered off so you can automatically start
toasting when the power goes on. I ended up finding an old toaster from the
1950s and rigging it up with a connected switch."

He faced similar problems connecting a food dispenser for his dog, Beast, or
another project -- rigging a "cannon" to fire his trademark gray T-shirts.

His conclusion?

"For assistants like Jarvis to be able to control everything in homes for more
people, we need more devices to be connected and the industry needs to develop
common APIs and standards for the devices to talk to each other," Zuckerberg
said.

Creative Strategies analyst Carolina Milanesi says Zuckerberg is building what
many people want: a digital personal assistant catering "to their needs in all
kind of ways from understanding to executing the command."

But the technology is not there yet, she said.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             278 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

5 things you should know as the Dow nears 20,000

BYLINE: Adam Shell, @adamshell, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 604 words


The Dow's flirtation with the 20,000 market milestone is the talk of Wall
Street.

The 120-year-old Dow Jones industrial average, arguably the world's best-known
stock barometer, is trading near a level never seen before. And we're not
talking Dow 10,000 like back in 1999 but almost Dow 20,000.

A day after the 30-stock blue-chip stock index climbed within 13 points of
20,000, the Dow again came within 13 points of the milestone Wednesday, as the
waiting game for the history-making event on Wall Street continues.

Sure, the chase for Dow 20,000 is getting a lot of attention, but how big a deal
is it?

USA TODAY got answers to key questions about the Dow's run at history from Mike
Baele, managing director at the Private Client Reserve at U.S. Bank in Portland,
Ore.

1. WHY CAN'T IT GET OVER  THE HUMP?

It's important to keep in mind where we have come from. On Election Day, the Dow
closed at 18,333. Wednesday's high of 19,987, a value close to 20,000, is a more
than 1,650-point move, representing 9% in price appreciation in just six weeks.
This has been one of, if not the most, impressive post-election rallies of all
time. It may be that the 20,000 level is a reminder of how far and how fast we
have come. Market valuations are looking stretched in the short run.

2. IS 20,000 A BIG DEAL?

Big milestone numbers like Dow 20,000 are psychologically important. These
levels generate headlines, acting like an advertisement for investors. This can
serve as a double-edged sword, as it offers confirmation to investors who have
enjoyed the run, but also a warning that levels may be getting stretched.
Historically, there seems to have been increased volatility around the big Dow
milestones, both in the run-up and once the milestone is breached.

3. DOES A NEW MILESTONE MARK A NEW STAGE OF THE BULL RUN WE'VE SEEN?

The reality is that 20,000 is just another number. However, the reasons for the
move are many. The drivers include an improvement in earnings in the third
quarter and hope for even better results in the coming quarters;
better-than-expected economic numbers, which includes solid employment, housing,
inflation, and consumer and business confidence numbers, which suggest
improvement in spending metrics going forward; and prospects of increased fiscal
stimulus under a Donald Trump administration (via) lower corporate tax rates,
infrastructure spending and a reduction in regulatory constraints.

Each of these positive factors, at this point, represent hope for improvement in
economic results and corporate earnings. If these hopes are realized, then the
bull market will continue.

4. WILL 20,000 IMPROVE  THE MOOD OF INVESTORS?

A headline-grabbing milestone like Dow 20,000 is likely to be viewed positively
by most investors. Market gains can lead to a wealth effect, where investors
feel better about their situation and are more comfortable with spending
decisions. For example, a rise in stocks in the fourth quarter has often been a
leading indicator for improved holiday spending.

5. IS it A REASON TO BUY?

Surely there will be some investors who have missed out on the recent rally and
will be lured back in. Perhaps, equally important, is the potential impact of
the damage that has occurred in the bond market. Over the past several years,
many tens of billions of dollars have been added to fixed-income investments at
the expense of stocks.

With the recent rise in bond yields (as prices fall), many of these bond
investments are now under water. We could see additional funds flow into
equities as investors review their fourth-quarter statements and decide to
rotate out of bonds and back into stocks.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Richard Drew, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             279 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Hackers breach Twitter accounts of Netflix, Marvel

BYLINE: Brett Molina, @brettmolina23, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 155 words


The hacker group OurMine has a new Twitter target: Netflix.

The group compromised the streaming service's Twitter feed Wednesday, sending a
string of tweets saying it was testing security. Initially, it appeared Netflix
had resolved the issue, but tweets from OurMine appeared to continue streaming
onto their Twitter account. As of publishing, the tweets have been removed.

The group also targeted several Twitter accounts tied to Marvel Entertainment,
including official accounts for The Avengers, Thor and Guardians of the Galaxy.

"Hey, it's OurMine," reads the message. "Don't worry we are just testing your
security, contact us to help you with your security."

In a statement, Marvel says they are "investigating and taking immediate action
to remedy the situation." Netflix could not be immediately reached for comment.

OurMine has previously targeted Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, Uber CEO Travis
Kalanick and Spotify CEO Daniel Ek.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Twitter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             280 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Trump meets with Boeing, Lockheed;
Boeing CEO says company will cut $4 billion price tag of new Air Force One

BYLINE: David Jackson, @djusatoday, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 722 words


After meetings with the CEOs of Boeing and Lockheed Martin on Wednesday,
President-elect Donald Trump said he and the aircraft makers will work to try to
reduce costs on major defense projects, including a new Air Force One.

"We're just beginning -- it's a dance," Trump told reporters following a series
of conferences at his golf resort in Palm Beach, Fla. "It's a little bit of a
dance. But we're going to get the costs down, and we're going to get it done
beautifully."

One of his guests, Boeing CEO Dennis Muilenburg, told reporters his company
would cut the $4billion estimate of a new Air Force One, a price tag that had
raised the president-elect's ire. "We work on Air Force One because it's
important to our country," he said, "and we're going to make sure that he gets
the best capability and that it's done affordably."

Trump met with defense contractors on a day in which aides released a schedule
of inaugural events next month and as he sought to push back on critics who
emphasize his loss of the popular vote to Hillary Clinton by saying he aimed for
a win in the Electoral College all along.

"Campaigning to win the Electoral College is much more difficult & sophisticated
than the popular vote," the president-elect tweeted. "Hillary focused on the
wrong states!"

Trump's meetings with the CEOs of Boeing and Lockheed Martin came just weeks
after he criticized the size of government contracts they hold for the new Air
Force One and F-35 joint strike fighter, respectively.

While the president-elect has threatened to cancel a Boeing contract for a new
Air Force One, military officials say the presidential plane needs an upgrade,
including enhanced (and expensive) security equipment.

In a tweet earlier this month, Trump said that "the F-35 program and cost is out
of control. Billions of dollars can and will be saved on military (and other)
purchases after January 20th."

Trump said his meetings Wednesday dealt mostly with the F-35, saying that "we're
trying to get costs down."

The president-elect also spoke with members of the Air Force leadership, one of
whom could be seen carrying a binder with a photo of Air Force One on the cover.

Speaking with reporters, Muilenburg said that "we're all focused on the same
thing here, we're going to make sure that we give our war fighters the best
capability in the world and that we do it in a way that is affordable for our
taxpayers."

In other developments Wednesday, Trump:

Appointed businessman and investor Carl Icahn as "special adviser" on issues
related to streamlining federal regulations. In a statement, Trump called Icahn
"not only a brilliant negotiator, but also someone who is innately able to
predict the future especially having to do with finances and economies."

Announced that economist Peter Navarro would be the new director of Trade and
Industrial Policy, working to correct what the president-elect has called unfair
trade agreements with other nations. Navarro will lead the newly created White
House National Trade Council.

Noting that he read one of Navarro's books "years ago," the president-elect said
that "he has presciently documented the harms inflicted by globalism on American
workers, and laid out a path forward to restore our middle class. He will
fulfill an essential role in my administration as a trade adviser."

Navarro has advocated a tougher trade line with China.

Spoke with reporters briefly and condemned the recent violence in Germany and
Turkey, saying that "what's going on is terrible." Asked specifically about the
terrorist attack in Berlin on Monday that left at least nine people dead, Trump
called the assault on a Christmas market by a man driving a truck an "attack on
humanity, and it's got to be stopped."

Trump began the day on social media, defending what he called his election
strategy.

Clinton, the Democratic candidate, won more than 65.8 million votes in the
election, some 2.8 million more than Trump -- but Trump won more states,
cruising to victory in the Electoral College.

"I would have done even better in the election, if that is possible, if the
winner was based on popular vote -- but would campaign differently," Trump said
during his brief tweet storm.

He added: "I have not heard any of the pundits or commentators discussing the
fact that I spent FAR LESS MONEY on the win than Hillary on the loss!"

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Ralph Freso

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             281 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Ben Affleck goes gangster for 'Live by Night';
Star puts muscle into his first post-'Argo' directing project

BYLINE: Bryan Alexander, @BryAlexand, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 523 words


Ben Affleck is the vision of contentment, soaking in the history of the Beverly
Hills Hilton from the poolside lounge on a warm winter afternoon.

He does, however, take issue with the hotel's famed Trader Vic's restaurant,
after a 2007 overhaul removed the classic tiki vibe. A sleek, modern lounge
remains. But the Old Hollywood glory is gone.

"Trader Vic's was Trader Vic's," Affleck says. "I know they tried to keep the
integrity of what it was. And it's tough, the world changes. But I just love
these Hollywood institutions."

It's a passion that spurred Affleck to pull on his best fedora and throw his
Hollywood muscle behind the Prohibition-era drama Live by Night (opening
Christmas Day in New York and Los Angeles, nationwide Jan. 13). Affleck actually
wears many hats in the love letter to the classic gangster movies of the 1930s
and '40s. He wrote the screenplay, directs, produces and stars as
anti-establishment outlaw Joe Coughlin.

The period fire was stoked at the perfect time. Affleck received Dennis Lehane's
noir crime novel while finishing his third directing effort, 2012's Argo. The
film would win three Oscars, including best picture, pushing Affleck's Hollywood
influence to its greatest levels. It wasn't difficult to persuade Warner Bros.
to back the epic film.

"Hollywood does allow you to go prove yourself. If you have a vision, you're
allowed to make that story," he says. "As I've gotten older, I've found that
when I've done things successfully, people are more willing to take a risk on
me. As I've had misses, people have been less willing."

But Gigli-esque falls are becoming distant memories for Affleck, who sports a
rare "lazy beard" during a brief break from back-to-back projects. He followed
Argo with raves in David Fincher's Gone Girl and raised his global status when
he donned  the Batsuit in Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice ($873 million in
worldwide box office).

"People in Taiwan know who I am who didn't know who I was a year ago," Affleck
says, adding that at 44, he's at "the prime of what I'm able to do."

"I've been in, like, 40 movies, and I don't feel like an old guy," he says. "But
I have done this enough to know what it is that I want to be doing. And I know
how to get there. This is not to say that I won't make mistakes or movies that
don't work. But I feel like now is the time for me. The iron is hot."

Argo star Chris Messina, who plays loyal enforcer Dion Bartolo in Live by Night,
says "there are not a lot of people they would let make this movie." Messina
marveled at how calm Affleck remained during the ambitious work, starring and
stepping behind the camera. "It was like a magic trick."

With DC Comics' Justice League completed (for a November 2017 release) and still
waiting for a script before moving forward on directing his own The Batman
movie, Affleck is not above using his magic, muscle and superpowers to bring
people to Live by Night.

"I am trying to prove that we can make these classic-feeling Hollywood movies,"
says Affleck. "I rely on critics, the audiences, great marketing and anyone
coming because they saw Batman and liked it. I'll take that. Believe me."

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Robert Hanashiro, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             282 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Nearly half of Americans miss out on 'Trump rally';
Sense of well-being, confidence shaken by Great Recession

BYLINE: Adam Shell, @adamshell, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 418 words


The U.S. stock market has generated $1.8 trillion in paper profits since
Election Day, but nearly half of Americans haven't made a penny in the so-called
"Trump rally." The reason: They don't own stocks.

Only 52% of Americans polled by Gallup in early April said they "have money
invested in the stock market," matching the lowest stock ownership rate in the
19 years Gallup has been tracking that statistic. The percentage of Americans
invested in the  market is down from its peak of 65%  in 2007 prior to the
financial crisis, Gallup data show.

The fallout from the Great Recession took a big toll on Americans' sense of
financial well-being, sapping their confidence in the job market, the economy
and Wall Street.

"Fear is a powerful emotion and has caused investors to flee stocks since the
recession," says Randy Warren, chief investment officer at Warren Financial
Service.

The lack of broad individual investor participation in the stock rally since
Nov. 8 is notable, given Trump's surprise win over Hillary Clinton was driven by
his promise to bolster the fortunes of the U.S. middle class. Still, Warren says
the market's surge, while not benefiting a large chunk of Americans via stock
profits, is signaling future gains for working-class Americans from a purely
economic standpoint, thanks to Trump's business-friendly policies.

"The stock market is just reflecting the anticipated reality where the working
man becomes the winner," Warren says. "Lower taxes and fairer trade should put
people back to work."

The 6.9% gain and nearly $2 trillion in paper profits enjoyed by the Wilshire
5000 Total Market Index since Trump's win has not trickled down to lower-earning
Americans. Less than one in four Americans (23%) that earn less than $30,000 say
they have money invested in the  market, Gallup data show. And only half of
middle-class folks earning between $30,000 and $74,999 say they are invested in
equities, down from 72%  in April 2007.

In contrast, nearly eight of 10 workers (79%) that earn $75,000 or more say they
have cash riding on stocks.

"There's no doubt there is residual skepticism by investors toward the stock
market and a view that the market is stacked against the 'little guy,'" says Tom
Block, a Washington policy strategist at market research firm Fundstrat Global
Advisors.

That could change.

"Trump has a unique relationship with these people, and maybe he can give ...
some reassurance to the average investor that the government and regulators are
on their side," Block says.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Evan Vucci, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             283 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Hyundai fires U.S. CEO Dave Zuchowski

BYLINE: Nathan Bomey, @NathanBomey, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 298 words


Korean automaker Hyundai has fired its U.S. CEO, Dave Zuchowski, as the
company's car-heavy lineup struggles  in a market currently dominated by
sport-utility vehicles, crossovers and pickups.

Jerry Flannery, who was serving as executive vice president and general counsel,
will take over temporarily as CEO of the division, known as Hyundai Motor
America.

The company had no immediate comment  on the reason for Zuchowski's termination.

"We appreciate Dave's decade of service to Hyundai, especially his leadership as
president and CEO, which has made us a stronger organization," Flannery said in
a statement. "I look forward to working closely with our dealers, affiliates,
senior management and our talented and hard-working employees across the country
to realize Hyundai's full potential."

Zuchowski could not be reached for comment.

Hyundai-brand vehicle sales were up 2.1% through November, compared to the same
period in 2015, according to auto industry tracker Autodata. That outpaced
industry-wide sales, which were up only 0.1%.

But that masks Hyundai's troubles.

The company has been relying heavily on less-profitable sales to fleet
customers, namely rental-car agencies, Autotrader.com analyst Michelle Krebs
said.

Hyundai's stalwart sedans, the Elantra and Sonata, have become less enticing to
American shoppers amid low gas prices. Discounts as a percentage of Hyundai
transaction prices rose 13% in November, compared to a year earlier, according
to TrueCar.

"The companies doing particularly well are those that have sport-utility
vehicles and trucks," Krebs said.

"And the ones that are heavily reliant on cars are doing not as well. A company
like Hyundai, when it heavily incentivized vehicles, it doesn't have big truck
profits to offset those with, like Ford or GM or Chrysler."

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             284 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

General: Air Force shortfall critical;
Service needs 30,000 more members to fulfill security duties

BYLINE: Jim Michaels, @jimmichaels, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 538 words


The Air Force's top officer said the service is critically short of personnel
and needs to expand by more than 30,000 active-duty service members to meet its
security obligations, including an air war against Islamic State militants.

"We just got too small too fast, and we've got to grow," Gen. David Goldfein,
the Air Force chief of staff, told USA TODAY in an interview Wednesday. "We're
at a risk level I'm not comfortable with."

Goldfein, who was completing a five-day tour of air bases around the country,
said the trip reinforced his concerns that the service is stretched thin. "The
shortage of people has fundamentally changed the way we do business," he said.
"To most of the American people, they still think they have the Air Force of
Desert Storm (the Persian Gulf War of 1990-91), and we're not even close."

President-elect Donald Trump, who promised to rebuild the military, will
probably face an array of requests from the services, which have lobbied for
more troops and weapons in years past but have had to preside over smaller
forces recently because of budget pressures despite a resurgence of threats,
particularly in the Middle East.

Goldfein said he will recommend expanding the size of the active-duty Air Force
from about 317,000 to 350,000. It would probably take five or six years to reach
the higher level. Under current plans, the Air Force planned to grow to 321,000.

The increase in personnel size would cost about an additional $3billion a year
on top of the Air Force's $151 billion budget.

The U.S. military withdrew from Iraq in 2011 and has reduced the size of its
force in Afghanistan to less than 10,000.

In 2014, the Islamic State swept into Iraq and other parts of the Middle East,
prompting the Obama administration to deploy roughly 5,000 troops in Iraq and
begin a bombing campaign over Iraq and Syria. U.S. aircraft have dropped
thousands of munitions targeting the Islamic State in both countries.

The Air Force ferries tons of weapons and ammunition to Iraqi forces battling
the Islamic State and has air-dropped supplies to a rebel force marching on
Raqqa, the Islamic State's de facto capital in Syria.

It is also responding to other global crises. "It seems like every two weeks,
we're responding to a crisis or event around the globe," said Gen. Carlton
Everhart, commander of the Air Mobility Command at Scott Air Force Base in
Illinois.

Russia and China are emerging as potential threats that could challenge the
military in ways the Islamic State has not. China is expanding its presence in
the South China Sea, and Russia has become a major player in Syria's civil war,
siding with the regime of President Bashar Assad.

The  Air Force has rarely been challenged in the skies during its campaign
against the Islamic State. That could change if the United States were to face
another nation's military capable of rivaling  U.S.  technological advantages.

This week, Goldfein spent a night with a crew in an underground nuclear control
facility in a remote windswept corner of Nebraska. Airmen guard the facility
round the clock, and a pair of young officers sit at the controls that would
launch nuclear-tipped Minuteman III missiles from nearby silos if the president
ordered strikes.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Susan Walsh, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             285 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Rookie Elliott enjoys ride with Cowboys

BYLINE: Jarrett Bell, jbell@usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 795 words


"Hold on a minute," Ezekiel Elliott said, greeting his visitor in an empty
Dallas Cowboys locker room last week. "Gotta make a quick stop."

The rookie running back made a beeline for Dak Prescott's locker. Candy raid.
Elliott pulled down a bag from an overhead compartment, grabbed a fistful of
snacks and carefully returned the stash.

Now he was ready to talk.

Elliott and his new close friend, Prescott, have had NFL debuts like kids in a
candy store. Both were just named Pro Bowlers. With one more win, Prescott can
match Ben Roethlisberger's record for victories by a rookie quarterback.
Elliott, headed for the rushing crown with 1,551 yards, is threatening Eric
Dickerson's rookie mark (1,808 yards in 1983).

"At this level, if you don't expect to be the best, there's no point in even
being here," Elliott told USA TODAY Sports. "You're wasting your time, your
teammates' time, (even) the people you're playing against. That's just the
mentality I have."

It was rather stunning that, as Elliott spoke, he proudly wore face paint -- a
heap of black and white artistry that transformed his look into something rather
menacing. Elliott, 21, and some other players were made up for a comedy sketch
the team's social media department produced, themed around pro wrestling legend
Sting being "hired" as the Cowboys' new "intimidation coach."

Guess this is what some high-profile franchises are prone to do when they are
rolling along with a share of the NFL's best record (12-2), infused with
youthful exuberance.

"Kind of a different look," Elliott, appearing he could join the rock group
KISS, said with a grin.

"I've heard of them," he said. "But I don't know any of their songs."

The levity is a far cry from a serious issue that lingers for Elliott. The
league is investigating Elliott under its domestic violence policy, stemming
from allegations by a woman in two incidents in Columbus, Ohio, and Aventura,
Fla. Elliott wasn't arrested, and -- in both cases -- authorities opted not to
pursue charges.

He won't comment on the matter, but Cowboys owner Jerry Jones has said he thinks
the NFL's continued investigation is unfair. The league was embarrassed by the
case of former New York Giants kicker Josh Brown, and Elliott might be receiving
more scrutiny as a result.

The investigation seemingly poses the biggest threat to slowing the momentum of
a phenomenal season that makes Elliott the front-runner for offensive rookie of
the year honors.

"It's always great to get accolades, but winning a Super Bowl ring means way
more to me," he said.

Elliott rushed for a season-high 159 yards in Sunday's win against the Tampa Bay
Buccaneers. He made more noise by hopping inside a huge Salvation Army kettle to
celebrate a touchdown. The stunt, on national TV, spiked a $182,000 rise in
donations over a 12-hour period when compared to the previous week, according to
a spokesman for the charity.

The episode underscored what the Cowboys get from Elliott, in addition to speed,
power and production: swagger. That has been seen before -- hello, Michael Irvin
and Deion Sanders -- in these parts. But being a character means nothing if
you're not balling.

There's clearly a yin and yang factor, though, when the showmanship of Elliott
is juxtaposed with Prescott, a cerebral type who is burnishing a reputation as
cool and unflappable. You'd never see Prescott hop into a kettle.

Yet the two share a fresh vibe that feels like a generation shift for a
franchise that has for so long revolved around Tony Romo. Veterans insist that
this has been accepted because, in addition to the production, the rookies are
passionate about the game and have demonstrated that they know when and how to
work. One of Elliott's rituals, for example, has been to park himself next to
tackle Doug Free on the team plane, where they break down film and the rookie
gains a better understanding of blocking schemes.

"This is a hard league," 14th-year tight end Jason Witten told USA TODAY Sports.
"When you have some success, you've got to understand what that formula looks
like and realize this is a great opportunity. When you have it, you've got to
pounce on it."

Elliott knows, even acknowledging he had hit a wall recently.

"Weeks 9 and 10, those weeks went by really slow," said the man who has a
league-high 310 carries.

Still, he professes not to sweat it.

"I was beat up more in my past two college seasons than I feel right now," he
says.

He clearly senses what's at stake for a franchise 21 years removed from its last
Super Bowl.

"I understand," he said. "Being a rookie and already getting a spot in the
playoffs is special. We've got guys in this locker room who have never played in
the playoffs. But I don't think I'll cherish this enough until I have like an
8-8 season."

Wisdom beyond his years.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Matthew Emmons, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             286 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Little sign of U.S. unity;
Americans say Trump hasn't done much to seal national divide or allay doubts

BYLINE: Susan Page@susanpageUSA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 1054 words


As Inauguration Day approaches, Donald Trump has made little progress in uniting
a divided nation or reassuring the voters who didn't support him in November, a
USA TODAY/Suffolk University Poll finds.

Instead, a majority of Americans, including one in five Trump voters, say the
president-elect hasn't done enough to prevent conflicts between his business
interests and the nation's interests. By nearly 2-1, those surveyed say the
incoming administration should investigate whether Russia tried to meddle in the
American election, a conclusion by U.S. intelligence agencies that Trump
initially dismissed.

"Obviously, he's going to be the president, and we have to give him a chance,"
Kathleen Hoynes, 56, of Upper Gwynedd, Pa., says in a follow-up phone interview
after being polled. She didn't support Trump during the campaign, first backing
Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders in the Democratic primaries, then voting for Hillary
Clinton on Election Day. "I'm willing to do that, but he's going to have to
prove to a lot of us that he can do the job."

Nearly four in 10 -- 38% -- say they feel "alarmed" by the prospect of Trump
moving into the Oval Office next month. An equal 38% say they feel "hopeful,"
and 16% are "excited."

At least almost no one is "bored": only 4%.

The poll of 1,000 registered voters, taken Dec. 14-18, has a margin of error of
+/-3 percentage points.

Trump has seen his favorable-unfavorable ratings improve since the election,
from a dismal 31%-61% in the USA TODAY/ Suffolk Poll in late October to 41%-46%.
That said, he still significantly trails previous presidents-elect in the modern
era. During a post-election honeymoon, they have been viewed favorably even by
some of those who supported their opponents.

Trump's standing continues to lag even the 46.1% proportion of the vote he
carried. In the new survey, 5% of those who supported him have an unfavorable
opinion, and 11% are undecided.

Americans split on how he's handled the transition: 41% approve, 40% disapprove.

Trump does have fervent supporters who argue, accurately, that the real estate
mogul and reality TV star consistently was underestimated by the pundits and the
political establishment. "It was annoying when people had to hide the fact that
they did vote for Trump," says David Ockrim, 30, who helps operate a small
food-truck company in New York City called Yankee Doodle Dandy. "While he may
not be the most polished or political-like, I think he's a breath of fresh air
America needed."

Among Trump supporters, four in 10 predict history ultimately will judge Trump
to be a "great" president. A third say he'll end up being a "good" one. Almost
half of Democrats say Trump will end up being seen as a "failed" president.

"I feel dread," says Megan Glidewell, 37, a college counselor from Waconia,
Minn., who voted for Clinton. She chokes up when she remembers how excited her
mother, who died of cancer in September, had been by the idea of a woman being
elected president. Since Trump won, Glidewell has adopted "an ostrich approach,"
deliberately paying less attention to the news because she finds it upsetting.

"The politics aside, I can't get past the ego; I can't get past the things he
said about women; I can't get past just the kind of campaign he ran that created
so much division," she says of Trump. "I imagine on top of all that, Trump
sitting and talking to other world leaders and being in delicate diplomatic
situations. I don't think he has the capacity of behaving. For better or worse,
we're all going to find out."

Americans are clear on what they want Trump to address first: jobs. Close to
half, 46%, say creating and preserving jobs should be his first priority. That's
triple the second-ranking issue, fighting terrorism and the self-proclaimed
Islamic State. At third is changing the way Washington works by "draining the
swamp."

Low on the list are the crusades that fueled the loudest chants at Trump's
campaign rallies. "Build the wall"? Only 7% say building a wall along the
Southern border and deporting undocumented immigrants should be his top concern.
"Lock her up"? A minuscule 1% say investigating Hillary Clinton should be his
No.1 issue.

Trump's supporters are willing to cut him some slack on his campaign promises,
which could give him the political space to strike compromises with Congress and
others. Half of those who voted for Trump say he should do what needs to be done
even if it means reversing positions he advocated. Thirty-nine percent say he
should closely follow the policies and promises he made during the campaign.

"I would love for him to get out and set his generals loose and take care of
ISIS," says Stephen Spence, 69, a retiree from Mesa, Ariz., who voted for Trump.
"But our people are starving here, so I think ... first, jobs within the United
States and second, ISIS, and third, probably, the budget deficit. That's my top
three."

There are some other issues pressing on Trump's agenda.

By 53%-35%, a majority of Americans say he needs to do more to address conflicts
between his business interests and the country's interest. That includes 19% of
Trump voters. "He can't have his children take over for him," Hoynes protests.
"He can't run the country like he runs a business."

By 62%-33%, those surveyed say the Trump administration and Congress should
investigate whether Russia tried to meddle in the presidential election. Trump
voters, by 48%-47%, support an investigation. "I don't really understand why
Russia would have such a vested interest in nudging the election in that
particular direction," Glidewell says. "That's the part that concerns me the
most."

Some Trump supporters are skeptical about what Russia did and how much it
mattered. "It may have gotten misconstrued," suggests Jason Felts, 43, of Galax,
Va. "My opinion is that it's just been blown out of proportion."

In the survey, nearly six in 10 say divisions in the USA are deeper than they've
been in the past.

"In my opinion, unless the country gets back together, things just can't work
the way they should," says Queen Jones, 73, a retired teacher's assistant from
Mount Pleasant, N.C., who voted for Clinton. "For me, I feel like his first
priority is to try to get the country back together, try to heal some of the
wounds."

At the moment, she frets, "it's like we're in two different countries."

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jim Watson, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             287 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Sound it out: 2016's frequently flubbed words

BYLINE: Mary Bowerman, USA TODAY Network

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 423 words


While trying to decipher whether President-elect Donald Trump was saying bigly
or big league, we mispronounced a few words of our own this year.

Global language-learning app Babbel commissioned U.S. Captioning to identify the
most mispronounced words of 2016. U.S. Captioning, which  subtitles live events,
surveyed its members to identify words and names most commonly mispronounced.
Here they are, with phonetic pronunciations  by Babbel's director of didactics
Miriam Plieninger:

Bowie (boh-ee) -- David Bowie died in January, and as people lamented his
passing, they may have botched his last name.

Breitbart (breyt-bart) -- Shortly after the election, Trump announced Stephen
Bannon would be his chief strategist in the White House. Bannon was head of
Breitbart News, a conservative news outlet he dubbed "the platform for the
alt-right."

Cisgender (sizz-gen-dehr) -- A term for people who have a gender identity that
aligns with the sex they were born with.

Hygge (HUE-gah) -- The Danish term is defined as "quality of coziness and
comfortable conviviality that engenders a feeling of contentment or well-being,"
according to Oxford Dictionaries. The  trend rose to popularity this year as
many  tried to embrace enjoyment and positivity by taking a page from the Danes.

Marion Cotillard (koh-tee-yar) -- A French actress who had roles in Allied and
Assassin's Creed. She was thrown into the Angelina Jolie-Brad Pitt divorce drama
after tabloids reported she had an affair with her  co-star.

Narcos (nark-ohs) -- The title of the Netflix show stems from the Spanish word
"narcotraficante," which means drug trafficker.

Nomophobia (noh-moh-pho-bee-ah) -- A fear of being without your cellphone. Sound
familiar?

Quinoa (kee-NOH-ah or kee-NOO-ah) -- A healthy grain product that no one can
agree on how to pronounce.

Rattata (RAT-ah-tah) -- A fictional character from augmented reality app Pokémon
Go.

Roald Dahl (rohld daal) -- A deceased English author who entertained children
(and adults) with classics such as Matilda, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory
and James and the Giant Peach. He would have been 100 in September. Though Dahl
died in 1990, his legacy lives on in his books and the many film, television and
theater adaptations of them.

Xenophobia (zen-oh-phoh-bee-ah) -- A "fear or hatred of foreigners, people from
different cultures or strangers," according to Dictionary.com, which dubbed it
the word  of the year.

Zika (zee-kuh) -- A virus transferable by mosquitoes that can cause devastating
birth defects.

Contributing: Kelly Lawler

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             288 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Dems have a front-runner for 2020 race;
'Someone entirely new' leads the pack of hopefuls in poll

BYLINE: Susan Page, @susanpage, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 414 words


On the theory that it's never too early to launch the next campaign, a new USA
TODAY/Suffolk University Poll identified an overwhelming front-runner for the
Democratic presidential nomination in 2020.

It's someone entirely new.

Literally. Not an identifiable person. Just "someone entirely new."

When that description was included on a list of possible contenders, 66% of
Democrats and independents said they would be "excited" to see such a person
jump in the race; just 9% said he or she shouldn't run. That's an overwhelming
yes-please-run score of 57 percentage points for, you know, whomever.

Compare that with the downbeat sentiment toward the party's 2016 nominee, former
secretary of State Hillary Clinton.

Even though she won the popular vote -- to be sure, Republican Donald Trump on
Monday carried the count that mattered, in the Electoral College -- just 23%
were excited about the prospect of her running again; 62% said they would prefer
she not.

That's a please-don't-run score of 39 points.

The nationwide poll of 626 registered voters who identified themselves as
Democrats or independents, taken Wednesday through Sunday, has a margin of error
of +/-3.9 points.

The actual person on the list who fared best was Vice President Biden.

Forty-three percent would be excited by his decision to run, apparently
undeterred by the fact that he'd be 78 years old on Inauguration Day 2021, and
31% would prefer he not run. That's a net positive score of 12 points.

Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, who gave Clinton a run for her money in the
Democratic primaries this year, had a positive score of 6 points -- that is, 44%
"excited" minus 38% who said they didn't want him to run.

Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren, who decided against a bid in 2016, fared a
stitch better, with a positive score of 7 points: 34% said they would be excited
by her campaign; 27% hope she doesn't try it.

Former Massachusetts governor Deval Patrick, the other name included on the
list, got a negative score of 5 points, but that's in part because a 53%
majority had never heard of him.

Of those who had, 10% said they would be excited; 15% were against the idea.

There is one Democrat who swamped the others in generating support.

In response to a separate question, Democrats, by 61%-32%, said Michelle Obama
should run for some sort of elective office. The only problem: She's made it
clear she won't.

"It's not something I would do," she said flatly in an interview with Oprah
Winfrey released Tuesday. Period.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo MICHAEL REYNOLDS, EPA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             289 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Facebook brings live audio to platform

BYLINE: Jefferson Graham, @jeffersongraham, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 177 words


Facebook is expanding its Live platform to include just audio.

As with many other Facebook launches, the new platform, announced Tuesday, is
currently only available to a handful of preselected partners. Facebook says it
will open it up  "early next year."

The move could provide  heated competition for audio service SoundCloud,  the
primary way for consumers to share audio clips on Facebook and other social
networks. Berlin-based SoundCloud has 175 million registered users to the
1.7billion Facebook base.

In a blog post, Facebook said it envisioned live audio as a feature for those
who didn't want the bother of adding the video layer but still wanted to
broadcast live. With Facebook Live, broadcasts generally are generated from the
mobile  app. Additionally, Facebook said that in areas with poor connectivity,
audio live broadcasts will be easier to pull off than video because of less
constraints for the smaller, audio files.

Preselected partners for the  experiment include the BBC, book publisher Harper
Collins and authors Adam Grant and Britt Bennett.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             290 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

OUR REFRAIN: These songs are 2016's best

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 819 words


Which songs captivated critics in 2016? USA TODAY's Maeve McDermott and Patrick
Ryan share their 10 best tracks of the year, from mega-hits to more obscure
favorites.

Cranes in the Sky Solange

A highlight from her astounding A Seat at the Table, Cranes in the Sky sees
Solange grappling with social justice much differently than her older sister
Beyoncé's chain-swinging, torch-carrying Lemonade track Freedom. Instead of
lashing out, Solange looks inward, detailing her tiny struggles against a force
that consumes her time and again. She may be singing about skylines marred by
ugly machinery, but her light-as-air vocals and delicate instrumentals invoke a
different kind of crane, stretching its wings and elegantly taking flight. -
M.M.

Lazarus David Bowie

Did David Bowie know that he'd be dead by the time many listeners would hear
Lazarus' opening words, "Look up here, I'm in heaven"? At the time of its

release, the song's gloomily

peculiar lyrics just sounded like classic Bowie theatrics, complete with his
particularly dramatic vocal turn. Now, we know Bowie was knowingly writing his
own epitaph on his final album,

Blackstar, and Lazarus reads like one: "Just like that bluebird / Oh, I'll be
free." - M.M.

feat. Young Thug, Quavo

Over a symphony of bloops seemingly recorded underwater, Pick Up The Phone
features a dream team of iconoclastic young

rappers -- Travis Scott, Young Thug, and Migos' Quavo. An ode to calling girls
on landline phones, Pick Up The Phone has an old-timey sweetness about it,
hilariously juxtaposed with its more explicit

content. - M.M.

Pink + White Frank Ocean

For many fans, Ocean's long-awaited return on albums Endless and Blond(e)
couldn't live up to

the astronomically high expectations they had  for them. But no one can deny the
sheer beauty of Blond(e)'s third track Pink + White, a lyrically vivid
guitar-and-piano ballad that manages the seemingly impossible task of recruiting
Beyoncé for heavenly backup vocals. - P.R.

Vince Staples

Hip hop's most formidable

up-and-comer released another stellar project, Prima Donna, this summer,
accentuated by this thunderous title track featuring A$AP Rocky. Like the rest
of the EP, Prima Donna is boisterous and boastful, but also harnesses a haunting
power in its final coda, as Staples laments in spoken word, "Fed up with the gun
violence, fed up with the old rules / fed up with the youth dyin', I just wanna
live forever." It's a bleak

but resonant message

that makes it one of the

most important songs of the year. - P.R.

Sneakin' Drake

No one artist had a bigger year than Drake, who became the most-streamed artist
of all time on Spotify thanks to his latest album, Views, whose lead single One
Dance has amassed more than

1 billion plays on the service. But his 2016 highlight actually isn't on Views
at all -- it's Sneakin', which he dropped online in October with a handful of
other new songs. Harking back to his mixtape days, the woozy diss track is both
pugnacious and playful, brimming with Dreezy's cringey signature puns ("She
texting purple hearts 'cause she know that we at war") that'll make you either
love or hate him more. - P.R.

Redbone Childish Gambino

Gambino's 360 turn away from rap on psychedelic album Awaken, My Love! wasn't an
entirely successful experiment, but it was all worth it for yielding this
electrifying soul jam. "Stay woke," he reminds us in piercing falsetto on the
chorus, backed by a gospel choir and oozing bass line. It's six minutes of
vintage '70s groove that isn't nearly long enough. - P.R.

Sorry Beyoncé

After the grown-woman

meditations on marital bliss that filled her previous two albums, petty Beyoncé
makes her grand return on Sorry, middle fingers aloft. With a loaded backstory
involving a maybe-unfaithful Jay Z and the infamous "Becky With The Good Hair,"
Sorry's misbehaving villain joins the bad boyfriends of Say My Name and
Irreplaceable in the dog pound of Beyoncé's catalog. - M.M.

Love on the Brain Rihanna

Work may be the theme song of Rihanna's slightly-unhinged, wickedly-fun ANTI
era, but it's Love on the Brain where she achieves her peak-diva moment.
Slipping in and out of an Erykah Badu impression, Rih spends the song
alternately slurring, cursing and belting her face off over high-drama
orchestral arrangements, as she honors the decidedly-unhealthy relationship she
can't seem to quit. - M.M.

Solange by Donna Ward, filmmagic; Bowie by Jimmy King; Staples by Frazer
Harrison; Misty by Ben Gabbe, getty images; Ocean by Jordan Strauss, AP; Gambino
by Tim Rue

for USA Today

Real Love Baby Father John Misty

Before making headlines for his anti-Trump declarations and profanity-laced
walk-off at XPoNential festival in July, Misty quietly released this feel-good
summer anthem on SoundCloud, with the unassuming caption, "Why not." Equal parts
schmaltzy and sincere, it's a folk-rock rumination on love that's bound to be a
hipster wedding staple for years to come. - P.R.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Daniela Vesco, Invision, for Parkwood Entertainment

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             291 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Caught in the act

BYLINE: Maeve McDermott

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 178 words


It was beginning to look a lot like Christmas at the Children's Hospital Los
Angeles when Katy Perry and Orlando Bloom visited in festive holiday garb. The
'Rise' singer and her actor boyfriend dressed like the Clauses to join families
in a holiday sing-along, hand out gifts and snap photos with excited fans.

MAKING WAVES

Beloved director Wes Anderson, who brought us The Grand Budapest Hotel, The
Royal Tenenbaums and so much more, revealed that he's working on a new animated
film, Isle of Dogs. And beyond Anderson's involvement, the cast is made up of
approximately half of Hollywood, with Scarlett Johansson, Greta Gerwig and Bryan
Cranston joining Anderson favorites Bill Murray, Tilda Swinton, Frances
McDormand and Jeff Goldblum.

ROYALS REPORT

HOME FOR CHRISTMAS

Six decades of royal routine were interrupted Wednesday when Buckingham Palace
suddenly announced Queen Elizabeth II, 90, and her husband, 95-year-old Prince
Philip, have caught "heavy colds" and would not be boarding their usual train to
Sandringham estate in Norfolk for their annual Christmas break.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Children's Hospital Los Angeles

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LIFELINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             292 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

IN BRIEF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 333 words


World's largest lottery  is $2.4 billion in Spain

El Gordo has arrived, and it's a lot more fun than El Niño or El Chapo.

El Gordo, Spanish for "The Fat One," is Spain's annual Christmas lottery taking
place Thursday. The world's richest sweepstakes, this year's prizes will total a
fat $2.4 billion, give or take a hundred million.

There is a catch, though. No one walks away with billions -- the grand prize is
about $4 million before taxes. The good news is there are scores of grand
prizes, and almost 15,000 people cash in some kind of winning ticket. Many
people buy several tickets with the same number, hoping to multiply their good
fortune.

--John Bacon

Congress passes bill to protect non-believers

In updating an 18-year-old religious freedom law, Congress this year decided for
the first time to expressly protect the rights of people around the world who
practice no religion at all.

President Obama signed the International Religious Freedom Act on Friday, hailed
by Republicans and Democrats as a way to strengthen the ability of the United
States to call out countries that oppress or persecute people for their
religious beliefs.

But now the law includes a reference to non-believers as well.

"The freedom of thought, conscience, and religion is understood to protect
theistic and non-theistic beliefs and the right not to profess or practice any
religion," according to the new law governing international programs, which
passed the House and Senate unanimously, without controversy.--Mary Troyan

Also...

About 400,000 more people signed up for insurance on the federal health care
exchange before the deadline Monday than at the same point last year, a sign
that fears of losing insurance may be eclipsing concerns that rates are too
high.

The United States population this year showed the slowest growth since the Great
Depression, as three of the biggest states lost residents, according to the 2016
U.S. Census Bureau report.

Nationally, the U.S. population grew by only 0.7% to 323.1 million.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo TOSHIFUMI KITAMURA, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             293 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Rousey might be WWE-bound;
UFC standout is longtime fan of pro wrestling

BYLINE: Martin Rogers, @mrogersUSAT, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 857 words


Even before Ronda Rousey fights for the chance to regain her Ultimate Fighting
Championship bantamweight title Dec. 30, her future inside the octagon is the
subject of much discussion.

Win or lose against Amanda Nunes at T-Mobile Arena in Las Vegas, few would be
surprised to see the mixed martial arts superstar exit the sport sooner rather
than later.

When she does so, expect WWE to come calling.

The most dominant franchise in sports entertainment has made little secret of
the fact that it covets Rousey after she made a well-received and cleverly
scripted cameo appearance alongside Dwayne Johnson (aka The Rock) at
WrestleMania in 2015.

"Our fans love Ronda," said Stephanie McMahon, WWE's chief brand officer and
television personality. "Ronda has this cross-platform appeal in terms of all
forms of entertainment. We would welcome her with open arms. She is the total
package."

The 13 months that have elapsed since she was knocked out by Holly Holm and
relinquished the bantamweight belt and her MMA unbeaten record were tough for
Rousey.

She admitted on The Ellen Degeneres Show that the defeat and its aftermath
caused her to have suicidal thoughts. Speculation that her UFC career might not
span much longer has been fueled by her own remarks indicating that she does not
envision many more fights, as well as the possibility of a future in the film
industry.

In terms of finances, though, the WWE could potentially bring as much clout to
the table as anyone. Enough, perhaps, to hasten the end of Rousey's UFC stint,
especially if she loses to titleholder Nunes.

According to Forbes, seven members of the WWE roster made more than $2 million
last year, topped by John Cena at $9.5million. None of those was a woman, but
Rousey brings a level of fame that would significantly boost her earning power.

With the bouts scripted -- WWE prefers the term "sports entertainment" rather
than "pro wrestling" -- there is not the inherent MMA danger of the physical
perils of a knockout and the psychological struggle that comes with it. WWE
does, however, demand a high level of physical strength, dexterity and
conditioning -- not to mention pain thresholds.

McMahon is a savvy entrepreneur who is part of a family dynasty that turned the
organization from a wrestling circuit previously concentrated on a regional
approach into a global juggernaut worth an estimated $1.5 billion.

With many of the story lines built around big characters and well-known
crossover personalities, Rousey checks a number of boxes. The fact that she has
been a fan of the organization since childhood doesn't hurt, either.

"It was like a dream come true to take part in WrestleMania," Rousey said. "It
was such a special atmosphere, something I have loved since I was a kid."

Before she lost to Holm, Rousey also said she wished to one day claim the WWE
women's championship.

McMahon's husband, Paul "Triple H" Levesque, a senior WWE executive vice
president, told reporters on a recent trip to England that WWE and Rousey had
"talked about doing things in the future."

The idea that Rousey could switch to WWE has been discussed by fans ever since
WrestleMania 31, held at Levi's Stadium in Santa Clara, Calif., last year and
effectively WWE's version of the Super Bowl.

McMahon and Levesque frequently play the part of villainous corporate bullies on
television and were involved in a tense staredown with Rousey and Johnson in the
plot line. Rousey thrilled the crowd by hip-tossing Levesque to the canvas,
before locking her signature armbar onto McMahon. Despite that element to the
show, McMahon and Rousey have  become firm friends.

"The moment was awe-inspiring," McMahon said. "Our business works the best when
there is magic and energy in the air, and Ronda's presence brought that.

"With a guest appearance like Ronda's, to work best it has to be genuine and
authentic. Pop culture is a huge strategy for WWE, our story lines are
reflective of what's happening in the world and what's popular. In sports, it
doesn't get much more popular than Ronda."

To the uninitiated, WWE and the UFC might seem to be at opposite ends of the
fight spectrum. The octagon offers no place to hide, one of the most punishing
and brutal of all sports. Outcomes of WWE bouts, meanwhile, are preordained by
company scriptwriters. However, there is a huge crossover following, and UFC
President Dana White borrowed heavily from the WWE's knack for promotion as he
built the UFC into a major brand. WWE stars such as Brock Lesnar and CM Punk
have fought in the UFC with varying degrees of success.

Rousey's uncompromising persona would appear to make her an ideal fit. She even
took her nickname "Rowdy" from former wrestler "Rowdy" Roddy Piper, who died in
2015.

"Muhammad Ali credited pro wrestling for where he got his trash-talking skills
and persona," McMahon said. "I would like to think there is a bit of 'Rowdy' and
wrestling history in Ronda and the way she carries herself, but she is
definitely her own individual brand."

It is a brand that is synonymous with the UFC and the fight game. When that
changes, don't be shocked if WWE swiftly presents itself as an alternative
option.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Don Feria, ap

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             294 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Cranston, Franco on building lasting relationships;
'Why Him?' stars take time out from holiday home- building to offer dating
advice, talk about new film

BYLINE: Andrea Mandell, @andreamandell, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 499 words


Call it Gingerbread Wars: Celebrity Edition.

On a Saturday morning, Bryan Cranston and James Franco are gamely decorating
gingerbread houses, each schmearing  white icing and dotting gumdrops onto
individual cookie homes.

"If you look, this is a gingerbread trap," says Cranston, skeptically eyeing his
house before picking up a tube of white icing. "There are no doors to this
whatsoever."

In the R-rated holiday comedy Why Him? (in theaters Friday), the trap is all
Franco's. Cranston plays Ned, a straight-laced Midwestern dad who reluctantly
flies to Palo Alto, Calif., with his wife (Megan Mullally) and teen son to meet
daughter (Zoey Deutch) Stephanie's new beau, Laird.

In short, Laird is every father's nightmare. When he welcomes Ned into his
modern mansion, Laird debuts a fresh tattoo of his girlfriend's family on his
back. It gets worse: The thirty-something billionaire routinely overshares about
his sexcapades, throws drug-friendly raves and employs a quirky executive
assistant (Keegan-Michael Key) to jump him as a method of schooling in the art
of self-defense.

Franco embraced his coarse video game designer character with gusto (even
hand-designing his  plentiful fake tattoos). "He's very crude, he didn't really
have much parental guidance growing up and now, he's very successful and so
there's no one really to tell him to be any one way," says the star.

Meanwhile, "Ned is the salt of the Earth," Cranston says. "He is the dad you
want: Midwestern values, loves his family, good businessman and just wants to do
the right thing. And he has designs on the perfect person who his daughter, who
is the apple of his eye, will eventually be with -- and it's not James Franco."
Franco laughs. "It's not!" Cranston exclaims.

But Cranston, who has a 23-year-old daughter with his wife, Robin Dearden, knows
dating norms have shifted over time.

"It's different. When I was a kid I used to have to go to the house of the girl
you want to take out and I'd have to meet her parents. It was, 'Hello, nice to
meet you, how are you, (we'll) be back at 12!' (Now) it's like the kids all hang
out together, and they'll separate and hook up on their own."

And yes, even movie stars follow dating formalities.

"My longer relationships, yeah, I get to know the parents," Franco says. " There
have been parents that I like, and parents that like me, and then others that I
just do not get along with. If you're in a long-term relationship, it can be a
major factor." He chuckles. "So it's much better when you get along."

Cranston's meet-the-parents advice is simple. "You need to get the mom to like
you, if you're a guy. That's the target. Just give up on the dad, he's not going
to like you anyway."

The stars put final touches on their gingerbread houses, which both sport candy
cane doors and gum drop-lined rooftops. "James copied my roof line," Cranston
announces. "I did that first!" Franco says.

There goes Cranston's eyebrow. "I don't think you did!"

The judges are still reviewing the tape.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Robert Hanashiro, USA Today

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             295 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

FIRST WORD

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 233 words


RIGHT NOW, I HAVE NO INTENTIONS OF COACHING. I REALLY ENJOY WHAT I'M DOING AND
FEEL LIKE I'M REALLY CLOSE TO THE FIRE."

"Monday Night Football" analyst Jon Gruden to ESPN's "Mike and Mike" show.

MAGIC NUMBER

5

Active NHL players who have played in 1,400 games, including Sharks center Joe
Thornton, who reached the milestone Tuesday.

TWEET OF THE DAY

@franfraschilla

Didn't see Coach McCaffrey overreact one single time to a foul late in game.
He's a good man & competitor. I would've let it go.

ESPN's Fran Fraschilla, a former basketball coach at Manhattan, St. John's and
New Mexico, reacting to Iowa coach Fran McCaffery pulling his team off the court
after a victory without shaking hands with North Dakota staff and players.

LAST WORD

"I WOULDN'T WANT ANYONE TO JOIN ME IN THAT MISERY WHATSOEVER."

Former Lions defensive end Dewayne White, who was a member of the 2008 team that
went 0-16. White and many of his former teammates are hoping this year's Browns
(0-14) can avoid the same fate.

Sports Weekly

Amid some doubt, rookie quarterback Dak Prescott proves he can lead the Cowboys'
playoff charge; plus Week 16 NFL previews and picks.  In baseball,  offseason
reports on the Angels, Phillies and Brewers. Available on newsstands. To
subscribe, go to mysportsweekly

.com or call 800-872-0001. The digital edition is available in the Apple, Google
Play and Amazon Kindle stores.

Compiled by USA TODAY Sports

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Kirby Lee, USA TODAY Sports

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SPORTSLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             296 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

In 2016, sports were there when we needed them most

BYLINE: Christine Brennan, cbrennan@usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 662 words


For decades, the sports section was known as the "toy department" of the
newspaper, partially because not everyone held sports journalism in the highest
esteem (shocking, I know), and partially because the sports pages were filled
with entertaining stories of fun and games.

Then came performance-enhancing drugs, free agency, player strikes, owner greed,
Munich, Jerry Sandusky, Ray Rice and so much more, and the sports section wasn't
always fun anymore. It no longer was an escape from the real world. It had
become the real world.

Enter 2016. In this year of all years, when sports escapism seems most
necessary, the sports world came through big league. Or is that bigly? Whatever.
It returned to its old self at just the right time.

We begin not on Jan.1, but on the evening of Nov.2, passing over to the morning
of Nov.3 Eastern time. For 108 years, Chicago Cubs fans had been waiting for
this day to arrive, so of course it took two days.

In a majestic Game 7 of the World Series with the Cleveland Indians, the Cubs
went up 5-1 in the fifth inning, then lost the lead when the Indians tied it 6-6
in the eighth, then there was a rain delay, then finally, there was victory for
the Cubs in the 10th.

For all the joy in Chicago, there was sadness in Cleveland, which is on a
68-season World Series title drought of its own. However, Cleveland already was
a winner. The Cavaliers, led by hometown hero LeBron James, won the NBA
championship four months earlier to bring Cleveland its first major sports title
in 52 years.

In a unique twist, both of these massive victories were as much triumphs for the
long-suffering fans in those two cities as they were for the players on those
winning teams.

Speaking of sports cities that won against all odds, how about Rio de Janeiro?
Seriously, who saw that coming? There were fits and starts, for sure, but the
2016 Summer Olympics were anything but a failure.

A few friends from the United States pitched in to help: swimmers Michael Phelps
and Katie Ledecky and gymnast Simone Biles. Each in his or her own way triumphed
far beyond our wildest dreams -- and perhaps theirs, too. There's always a rush
to pick the athlete of the year, the Olympian of the year, the sportsman of the
year, the sportswoman of the year. Those three? They all were terrific. Let's
just leave it at that.

One of the few discordant notes in this sports year grew louder as the Rio Games
approached. That was Russian cheating. The depth and breadth of Russia's
diabolical plan to win world and Olympic medals while covering up the use of
performance-enhancing drugs by its athletes was breathtaking.

It remains the travesty of the year in sports that the International Olympic
Committee did not ban the entire Russian Olympic team from the 2016 Games.

But because two-thirds of the Russian team were allowed to compete in Rio, we
also were treated to a rare sports profile in courage. It happened rather
unexpectedly early in the Olympic swimming competition, when 19-year-old
American Lilly King refused to back down from the gamesmanship of twice-banned
Russian swimmer Yulia Efimova -- calling her out one day, then beating her for
the gold medal in the 100-meter breaststroke the next.

Back at home, winners dotted the landscape. Alabama football was unstoppable. So
was Connecticut women's basketball. Villanova's men's team won when it mattered
most, on the buzzer-beater of the year.

There were epic retirements that were fitting of this memorable year, led by
Kobe Bryant and Peyton Manning, who went out with one last, unexpected Super
Bowl title. One of their peers showed up at the very end of the year to remind
us he's not done yet. We see you out there on the driving range, Tiger Woods.

It's hard to believe one year contained all this: the Cubs and the Cavaliers,
the Broncos and the Penguins, the Crimson Tide, the Huskies, the U.S. Ryder
Cuppers and Ledecky, Phelps, Biles and the rest of Rio's winners.

But it did. Thanks, 2016. We needed that.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Tommy Gilligan, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             297 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Cranston not exactly ready to reconcile with the Rams

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 5C

LENGTH: 320 words


When it comes to the Los Angeles Rams, actor Bryan Cranston isn't ready to open
his heart again.

At least not yet. He remembers when the Rams left Los Angeles for St. Louis
after the 1994 season, breaking his heart.

"I was born and raised in Southern California, and the L.A. Rams were my team,"
Cranston told USA TODAY Sports' For The Win. "And all of a sudden 20years ago
they get up and leave. It's like a girlfriend breaking up with you and saying
they're going to sleep with another city. And then they do. And then 20 years
later they want to come back and say, 'I made a mistake. I want to be with you
again.'

"And it's like, 'Well not so fast, football team,'" he said. "So now we're
beginning. I'm willing to go out on a date with the L.A. Rams, but I'm not that
kind of girl anymore. You have to go slow, woo me. And right now their offense
is terrible, they can't score."

He turned to James Franco, his co-star in the upcoming movie Why Him?, to
continue with an analogy.

"Like James Franco, when he had pimples and he couldn't score, either. But now
look at him. Look at his handsome face."

Franco laughed.

"There's hope, Rams," he said.

Instead of rooting for his hometown team, Cranston is hoping for the Pittsburgh
Steelers to beat the New England Patriots to set up a Super Bowl matchup between
Pittsburgh and the Dallas Cowboys this season.

"That would be great. That would be great to see," he said. "And then I'd be
rooting for the Steelers."

One more thing he's rooting for? A rule change that would penalize players for
having lame touchdown celebrations.

"It's like, 'Fifteen yards, bad celebration dance, penalty will be taken on the
kickoff,'" he said, raising his voice to imitate an announcer. "I think that
would be great. And then they replay it and they go, 'Yeah, look at him. That
looks terrible. He should have been penalized for that.'"

To see Cranston's NFL picks for Week16, go to ftw.usatoday.com

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Richard Shotwell, Invision/AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             298 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Outlandish opinions ingrained in sports

BYLINE: Andrew Joseph, @AndyJ0seph, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 349 words


It's almost impossible to watch or play sports without having an opinion about
them. While many of these are totally reasonable, there are times they morph
into straight-fire takes and make everybody angry.

This year had no shortage of hot takes, but none brought more heat in 2016 than
these seven.

1. Hope Solo's shameless postgame comments after losing to Sweden in the
Olympics

Solo was suspended for six months and had her national team contract terminated
after her shocking post-elimination comments. The goalkeeper called Sweden
"cowards" and said the "best team did not win."

2. Charles Barkley saying LeBron James will never be a top-five NBA great

Bill Simmons' Any Given Wednesday on HBO didn't make it past its first season,
but it did give Barkley the platform to dish out his hottest take on the year.
Barkley said there was nothing James could do to get into his list of top-five
NBA greats.

3. Ayesha Curry asserting that the NBA is "absolutely rigged for money"

It was Game 6 of the NBA Finals. Stephen Curry was ejected. The Warriors were
one game away from blowing a 3-1 lead. Curry's wife was not happy and shredded
the NBA with a now-deleted tweet that will live on forever in our hearts (and in
screenshots).

4. Adam Jones saying Antonio Brown flopped after a hit to the head

There was absolutely nothing fake about Vontaze Burfict's violent hit on the
Pittsburgh Steelers wide receiver in last season's playoff meeting. Brown was
nearly knocked unconscious. Jones apologized to Brown.

5. Stephen A. Smith calling Colin Kaepernick a "flaming hypocrite" for not
voting in the election

Smith, an ESPN analyst, has quite a few takes, but he brought the most heat on
this rant about Kaepernick.

6. Barkley calling Klay Thompson the NBA's second-best player

The fact that Barkley said this with a straight face and it wasn't even his
hottest take of the year was simply astounding.

7. Phil Jackson comparing Curry to Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf

Jackson actually wrote this tweet: Never seen anything like SCurry? Remind you
of Chris Jackson/ Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf, who had a short but brilliant run in NBA?


LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Erich Schlegel, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             299 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 22, 2016 Thursday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Coke buying Africa bottling operation

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 136 words


The Coca-Cola Co. will pay about $3.2 billion for Anheuser-Busch InBev's 54.5%
stake in a joint bottling venture operating in Africa. The Coca-Cola Beverages
Africa unit, formed in 2014 with SABMiller and South Africa's Coca-Cola Sabco,
is among the holdings AB InBev is shedding to gain regulatory approval for its
acquisition of SABMiller. Countries in which Coca-Cola Beverages Africa operates
include South Africa, Namibia, Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania and Ethiopia.

2 more executives signing out of Twitter

Two more Twitter executives are leaving.  Chief Technology Officer Adam
Messenger and Josh McFarland, vice president of product, add to a growing list
of former execs from the micro-blogging service.  Their exits follow several
other upper-management farewells, including former Twitter CEO Adam Bain last
month.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: MONEYLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             300 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Firms to create an industrial gas giant;
As part of merger, Praxair to move its tax home to Europe

BYLINE: Nathan Bomey, @NathanBomey, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 530 words


U.S. industrial gas giant Praxair will switch its tax headquarters to Europe in
a tie-up with German gas giant Linde, marking the latest example of a major
American corporation flipping its tax home overseas through the mechanism of a
merger.

Praxair and Linde said Tuesday that they had agreed to a "merger of equals" that
would create a combined global entity with 2015 revenues of about $30billion.
Each company will control half of the board seats on the new entity, which will
be called Linde, and their respective shareholders will each hold 50% of the
stock.

The companies did not cite tax savings as a primary driver of the accord, but
said the combined entity would be "domiciled in a neutral member state of
European Economic Area," which includes the European Union countries and a few
others that have agreed to free trade with each other.

Linde has more than double as many employees as Praxair -- 65,000 to Praxair's
26,700 as of the end of 2015 -- and roughly 70% more revenue.

The new company would retain the name Linde and would be listed on both the New
York Stock Exchange and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange.

The deal comes at the tail end of a year of heightened scrutiny over U.S.
companies executing foreign mergers to avoid U.S. taxes.

The Obama administration has sought to crack down on such deals, and
President-elect Trump has also criticized them, citing a need to overhaul the
American tax system to keep companies in the U.S.

Asked to comment on the tax implications, Praxair did not immediately have a
statement. But Linde cited competitive advantages as the overriding reason for
the merger.

"The driving force behind the transaction is the highly compelling strategic and
industrial logic, which will enable both companies to enter the next phase of
profitability and growth in a highly competitive global market," it said in a
statement. "In any case, the joint company will pay taxes where the value is
generated."

Praxair shares traded in New York fell 3.7% to $118.50 in early trading. Linde
shares traded in Frankfurt declined 1.7% to 160.85 euros.

Praxair CEO and Chairman Steve Angel would lead the new company as CEO and join
the board. Linde Chairman Wolfgang Reitzle would become chairman of the new
company.

Together, Praxair and Linde had market value of about $65billion before the deal
was announced.

They estimated they would reap $1billion in annual "synergies," which often
comes from cost cuts, combined purchasing power and new revenue opportunities.

The companies had held discussions earlier this year but they briefly collapsed
because "Linde labor representatives weren't comfortable with plans to move the
combined company's European headquarters to the U.S.," the Wall Street Journal
reported.

But corporate operations will be "appropriately split" between Praxair's
hometown of Danbury, Conn., and Linde's base in Munich, with the CEO based in
Connecticut, the companies said.

"The strategic combination between Linde and Praxair would leverage the
complementary strengths of each across a larger global footprint and create a
more resilient portfolio with increased exposure to long-term macro growth
trends," Angel said in a statement.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             301 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Rock Hall taps Tupac, Journey, Pearl Jam;
Joan Baez, ELO and Yes also will be inducted in April

BYLINE: Bill Keveney, @billkev, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 509 words


The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame's Class of 2017 appears to have a little
something for everyone.

The six performer inductees announced Tuesday reflect a wide reach in time and
style, ranging from Joan Baez, who began her folk career in the early 1960s, to
Pearl Jam, a leader of the Seattle grunge sound, and the late rapper Tupac
Shakur, who released hit albums in the 1990s.

The three other inductees include two English bands, Electric Light Orchestra
(ELO) and Yes, which broke through in the early 1970s, and San Francisco-based
Journey, which scored its biggest hits, including the anthemic Don't Stop
Believin', in the 1980s.

Producer, songwriter and guitarist Nile Rodgers will receive the Award for
Musical Excellence. Chic, the pioneering disco group he co-founded, was
nominated for the 11th time in the performer category, but wasn't admitted.

A special exhibit featuring the inductees will open March 30 at the Rock and
Roll Hall of Fame in Cleveland, with the new hall members being honored at the
32nd annual induction ceremony on April 7 at Barclays Center in New York.

The 2017 class signifies a broad definition of rock 'n'  roll music, Hall of
Fame CEO Joel Peresman tells USA TODAY. "Rock 'n'  roll means so many things to
so many different people," he says. "To have a class that has everything from
Joan Baez to Tupac Shakur, from Pearl Jam to Yes, is terrific."

Some fans have criticized performers they consider to be outside the genre.
Shakur's nomination drew such a response, as did earlier hip-hop inductees, such
as N.W.A, Public Enemy and Grandmaster Flash. Peresman disagrees. "It's a broad
definition and we consider hip-hop an important part of the whole genre."

The group is filled almost entirely with first-time nominees. Shakur and Pearl
Jam became eligible just this year, as the hall of fame will only consider
performers 25 years after the release of their first single or album (1991, for
this group). Baez, Journey and ELO also are first-time nominees.

The inductees are part of a group of 19 nominees. More than 900 voters from the
Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Foundation were eligible to vote for their choices.
Fans voted online, too, at a variety of sites, including USATODAY.com. The
aggregate of the fan vote counted as a ballot in the official voting.

Foundation voters and fans appear to be singing the same tune for the most part,
with inductees Journey, ELO, Yes and Pearl Jam taking the first four spots,
respectively, in the online vote. Journey, the top vote recipient, received 13%
of the nearly 1.9 million fan ballots cast, indicating how spread out the vote
was among the nominees. The Cars  was No. 5 in the fan voting, but did not make
the induction list.

Peresman says Hall of Fame voters look at more than a performer's popularity.

"We don't want to make it a popularity contest of who sold the most records or
tickets. We try to look at who's really influential in their own part of rock
'n'  roll," he says.

Shakur by Kevin Larkin, AP;

Baez by Fred Tanneau, Getty Images;

Vedder by Jeff Kravitz, filmmagic

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             302 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

New charges in Flint investigation

BYLINE: Paul Egan, and Elisha Anderson, Detroit Free Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 442 words


Michigan's attorney general announced new criminal charges against four
defendants Tuesday -- including two former emergency managers appointed by the
state -- in his ongoing criminal investigation of the Flint drinking water
crisis and lead poisoning of city residents.

Attorney General Bill Schuette brought felonies that could result in 20 years in
prison against defendants he alleged conspired to operate the Flint Water
Treatment Plant when it wasn't safe to do so and used a phony environmental
order to allow the city to borrow money to proceed with the Karegnondi Water
Authority pipeline while tying Flint to the Flint River for its drinking water
in the interim.

Officials pushed ahead in April 2014 with taking the city's drinking water from
the Flint River despite knowing that the Flint Water Treatment Plant was not
ready to deliver safe drinking water, Schuette and his investigators alleged at
a news conference.

"So many people knew that that plant was not ready -- and yet it was done," said
Andrew Arena, former special agent in charge of the FBI in Detroit, and now
Schuette's lead investigator. "That's the thing that shocked me."

In 67th District Court, a judge authorized charges against former Flint
emergency managers Darnell Earley and Gerald Ambrose and city officials Howard
Croft, who was public works superintendent, and Daugherty Johnson, the utilities
administrator.

Flint Mayor Karen Weaver said she sees the charges as a broader indictment of
the state's emergency-manager system for financially distressed cities, in which
an appointed official from outside takes powers stripped from the elected mayor
and council.

"It's taken the voice of the people and taken our democracy," Weaver told
reporters after the charges were announced.

Jeff Seipenko, a special agent with the Attorney General's Office, told Judge
William Crawford II that his office's investigation showed that the former
emergency managers conspired with Croft and Johnson to enter a contract based on
false pretenses that bound the city of Flint to use the Flint River as its
drinking water source, "knowing that the Flint Water Treatment Plant was unable
to produce safe water."

After being advised to switch back to water that the Detroit Water and Sewerage
Department treated, Earley and Ambrose failed to reconnect to the city's former
water supply, Seipenko said. The result: Flint residents had prolonged exposure
to lead and Legionella bacteria.

All four defendants face felony charges of false pretenses and conspiracy to
commit false pretenses. In addition, Earley and Ambrose also were charged with
willful neglect of duty and misconduct in office.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Carlos Osorio, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             303 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Calipari supporting rival? Look again

BYLINE: Fletcher Page, @FletcherPage, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 674 words


A few years ago, a group of casual college basketball fans lost their minds when
they walked by Kentucky coach John Calipari while aboard a vacation cruise ship.

They worked up the nerve, approached and asked for a picture. The Wildcats were
really good that season. They reached the Final Four and were playing for a spot
in the national title game that day. The game was on a nearby TV.

Calipari was coaching that game -- not on the cruise ship.

When the group asked David Winkler for a photo, it was not an isolated incident.
It happens all the time. Winkler was born, raised and lives in Louisville. He
loves the Cardinals. He looks like Calipari.

"It's all right," said Winkler, who maintains a healthy sense of humor about the
mistaken identity. "He's not a bad-looking guy, so I'll take it as a compliment.

"For every one person that walks up and says something, there's at least 10 or
15 more that are double-taking. I can feel them watching me. I've watched guys
elbow their buddies as they're walking by. They all try to be cool about it, but
I can feel it. It's gotten to that point."

At least that group on the cruise ship didn't boo or hiss at Winkler. That's
what happens during football games at Papa John's Cardinal Stadium. Winkler, a
land surveyor by trade, has season tickets. There's a camera operator who knows
where he sits and gets in position once or twice a season to broadcast Winkler
and his wife, Linda, on the kiss cam.

"If they keep me on there long enough, then they all start booing," Winkler
said. "If I was Calipari, I would be up in a box somewhere. I wouldn't be in the
seats. People don't think about those things. They don't think. They react."

Winkler turned 56 on Tuesday. Calipari is 57. They both have slicked-back hair
with a little gray at the temples. And here's a twist -- Winkler attended UK in
the early 1980s and studied engineering. He was in school when Kenny Walker and
Sam Bowie were just getting started.

But he remained loyal to Louisville.

Now, Kentucky fans approach while Winkler is eating dinner and wish him good
luck and tell him to have a good season. He never signs an autograph or poses
for a photo without telling the truth, but sometimes he simply says thanks and
shakes hands.

"They thought they met somebody, and I didn't want to hurt their feelings," he
said. "I try to be respectful for it."

Calipari said he recently upset a lady at a restaurant when he declined to pose
for a photo because he was eating with his wife.

"My wife looked at me like, 'She's mad at you,'" Calipari said on his podcast
last week. "I went up to her later and said, 'Do you want to take the picture?'
She said, 'No, I'm good.' 'OK, thank you. I'm fine.'"

One year, Winkler and his wife attended a Halloween party dressed as Coach Cal
and Kentucky superfan Ashley Judd. He wore a blue UK tracksuit, and she was
dressed in a Wildcats T-shirt and hat and carried a large blue foam finger. They
won the prize for best costume and took pictures with people all night.

"We might as well have fun with it, right?" Linda said.

Might as well. Because there's no avoiding the attention. Last week, when the
Winklers were shopping, three female Kentucky fans "had a conniption fit" when
they saw who they believed to be Calipari.

Winkler, as he often does, was wearing a Louisville sweatshirt. He has pointed
that out to people that approach -- why would Calipari dress in red and display
the Cardinals logo?

"They're like, 'That would be something he would do to hide from everybody,'"
Winkler said.

For Winkler, there is no hiding. Eating dinner recently at Old Chicago in
Louisville, Linda noticed a man at the bar looking at David. Word spread, and
right down the row, everybody turned and looked to see for themselves.

Such is life for the man who looks like the most polarizing figure in the state.

"Sometimes it's a pain, but it's funny," Winkler said. "I don't try to profit
off it, either, although people keep telling me I could."

Page covers Kentucky for The (Louisville) Courier-Journal, part of the USA TODAY
Network.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo The (Louisville) Courier-Journal

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             304 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

CBS will capture drama, pain of Toughest Mudder;
Reporter recounts satisfaction event provides participants

BYLINE: A.J. Perez, @byajperez, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 584 words


CBS Sports executive Emilie Deutsch lists "The Cliff" as one of the qualities
that made the World's Toughest Mudder "just gorgeous" to capture.

This was my third attempt at the 24-hour obstacle race, and a few other words
came to mind, mainly "terror" and "ouch."

Two years ago, I caught my foot on a banner after I leaped off the platform
erected 35 feet above Lake Las Vegas. That sent me careening facefirst into the
water. But I was lucky. I wasn't hurt, and only a couple of hundred spectators
gathered around the lake could laugh at my blunder.

This November's race, the sixth overall put on by the popular mud run series
Tough Mudder, was the first captured by CBS as part of a two-year deal announced
in August. Camera crews captured 50 hours of footage as more than 1,200 people
took to the 5-mile course filled with about 20 obstacles and 800 feet of
elevation gain per lap.

CBS' coverage of the race will air Christmas Day at 2p.m. ET. After the one-hour
recap, an aftershow will be broadcast at 3p.m. on CBS Sports Network.

"It's been easier than I thought to put it all together," Deutsch, CBS Sports
vice president of original programming, told USA TODAY Sports. "We have so much
good footage. The challenge really is balancing telling the stories of both the
elite runners and those really personal experiences of the non-elite competitors
in the race."

I'm one of those non-elite competitors. I didn't have a masseuse, any sponsors
or multiple people in the pit area to keep me on track. I had my dad, who
graciously drove several hours to help me, and a tent that cost $30.

"This is a community of more than a thousand people, and 90% are just out there
to push themselves and reach for personal goals," said Jesse Bull, Tough
Mudder's senior vice president of brand creative. "Then you have 10% who are the
contenders trying to run 105 miles and win the prize money."

Ryan Atkins and Jon Albon, two of the biggest names in the sport, covered 105
miles to win the $100,000 team prize. The men's individual winner, Trevor
Cichosz, also reached 105 miles, and the women's winner, Stefanie Bishop, made
it 85 miles, each securing $10,000 in prize money.

My goal was simple: Do double the distance of a marathon (52.4 miles). My prize?
Another 50-mile bib. It doesn't seem like much, but when I made it exactly 50
miles in 2014, I grabbed that bib and broke down in tears. I wasn't in much
better shape at the airport the next day as I needed a wheelchair to get on the
plane home.

I held it together much better this year and grabbed the bib with two hours to
spare, so it was time to hang out with my dad and my new buddy, Greg Crooks, a
fellow beer league hockey player from Britain.

I hadn't entered my tent for more than a few seconds. I limited my time in my
pit to grabbing a snack, downing electrolytes and changing into and out of my
wetsuit, attire that is needed as the temperatures dip in the desert when you
are repeatedly hopping in and out of the water each lap.

After a lengthy rest in the pit area, I went out on the course and stopped after
the 3-mile mark for 53 miles, good enough for 344th out of 1,235 competitors.
Just over the ridge were the final 2 miles and "The Cliff," a couple hundred
feet before the finish line. Having met my goal, I was fine with not taking
another spill that actually could've been broadcast to a national TV audience.

"I think the broadcast will show how epic the event has become," Bull said. "It
was bigger and better than anything we've done before."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Tough Mudder

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             305 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Trans girl graces 'National Geographic'

BYLINE: Susan Miller@susmillerUSA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 1036 words


In 1985, an Afghan girl with piercing green eyes stared into the world's soul
from the cover of National Geographic in an iconic and mesmerizing
photo.Thirty-one years later, another young girl peers out from the magazine's
glossy front in an equally compelling portrait. A girl with tangles of
pink-streaked hair, comfy pink leggings and a resolute gaze -- a girl who until
2012 lived as a boy.

Meet Avery Jackson, 9, the first transgender individual to grace the cover of
the 128-year-old magazine, which is rolling out to subscribers this week in a
special edition devoted solely to gender issues around the globe.

Avery never intended to be a trailblazer for gender identity, a topic that is
front and center in a rapid-fire evolution of how people define themselves.

Growing up, "I really just wanted to be myself," Avery told USA TODAY. "I'm just
a girl."

But the Kansas City fourth-grader knows the significance of the magazine's
cover. "By putting myself more out there, people will be able to know that I am
transgender and proud and learn more about transgender issues."

From the Supreme Court to statehouses, fashion pages to Facebook, the question
of "who we are" is complicated and fluid, and never more relevant.

That is why National Geographic decided to devote its January issue to the
"gender revolution," said Susan Goldberg, the magazine's editor in chief. "It
seems that the discussion about gender is really at the center of our national
conversation. It is playing out in our education system, legal system, the
military. Everywhere you look there is this conversation."

An accompanying broadcast documentary, Gender Revolution, A Journey With Katie
Couric, will air Feb. 6 on National Geographic Channel.

What started out as a story about girl empowerment a year ago soon took flight
in a deeper direction. "Editors said it's really complicated to be a boy, too,"
Goldberg said. The magazine decided to examine all facets of gender through
culture, society and science and "humanize" the stories of everyday people, she
said.

The choice of a petite pioneer for the cover seemed natural, Goldberg added. "We
thought Avery was so strong, so proud ... and confident about her decisions that
she was a good person to symbolize the new discussions about gender. She seems
to sum up the complexity of the issue."

AVERY'S STORY

Avery's mother, Debi Jackson, 42, said her child went from being a "happy,
outgoing 2-year-old boy to becoming sullen and depressed" between the ages of 3
and 4. Avery became angry and withdrawn and hated going to preschool, Jackson
said. "She started talking about death a lot."

When Avery dressed up in a princess dress, the darkness lifted, said Jackson,
who also has a son Anson, 11, with husband Tom, 41. The couple thought she was a
gay boy and "it would be OK."

One day when they were walking through Target on a holiday shopping trip,
Jackson said Avery turned to her and said: "You call me a boy, you think I'm a
boy, but you know I'm a girl on the inside, right?"

What followed were pediatrician visits, sessions with a genetic therapist and
the decision to let Avery dress as a girl on the weekends.

And then came another pivotal moment, Jackson said. Avery was going to a
birthday party on a Sunday afternoon and her mom asked her to put on boy clothes
for a few hours. "No," Avery said. "I don't want to pretend to be a boy." Avery
dressed as a girl and none of her friends "batted an eye," Jackson said.

On Monday morning, she dressed for school "in pink head to toe," Jackson said.
"And she was excited about going to school for the first time in months."

BEYOND TRANSGENDER

The January special edition, which includes a glossary of more than 20 terms
redefining gender, is landing at a time when the political landscape is shifting
and some fear a rollback in rights.

Jackson, who calls her home-schooled daughter "smart, fearless and a natural
entertainer," was hit by the magnitude of the magazine cover photo and how
confident and secure Avery seemed.

Yet there already has been a backlash in conservative circles, she acknowledged.
"We still have a chance to change hearts and minds," said Jackson, who has
become an advocate for transgender rights. "We are just trying to put a face to
a word that people don't understand."

Georgiann Davis, 36, also has powerful insight into gender identity, one
delivered in a gut-kicking revelation. Davis, whose story is told in the
magazine, was born with an intersex trait known as CAIS (complete androgyn
insensitivity syndrome) that wasn't identified until her adolescence. She was
born with a vagina, internal and undescended testes and XY chromosomes.

At 13, she was blissfully playing outside when she felt abdominal pains. A trip
to the doctor didn't reveal anything wrong. Except that she had testes, not
ovaries.

Her parents and doctors decided to keep Davis in the dark and concoct a cover
story: "They told me I had early onset cancer of ovaries and would need surgery
before I turned 18," she said. The "cancer" surgery at 17 -- which forced Davis
into early menopause as a teen -- in fact  removed her testes.

It wasn't until Davis was stepping into adulthood in her 20s and looking for a
new physician that reality came crashing down in the form of her medical
records.

"I expected to read about cancer. But I held them up to the light on a really
bright day in Chicago and saw the words 'testicular feminization syndrome,'"
Davis said. "I felt like a freak at that moment. I was just so confused. ... I
was lied to."

Davis, who initially threw out her records, said it took about seven more years
for her to share her story and feel comfortable as someone who is intersex, a
term for those who have a combination of male and female sex traits.

GENDER AND THE FUTURE

Goldberg hopes people will look at the magazine in its entirety to see how
gender is playing out across the world. "We have come a long way to talk about
gender but have a long, long way to go on this topic," she said.

Davis, an assistant professor of sociology at University of Nevada-Las Vegas,
sees hope in the  younger generation.

"When I was 25 I didn't even talk about it. I was so ashamed of it," she said.
"Today's youth are forcing society to change."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo National Geographic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             306 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. cities step up security efforts;
American officials say there are no specific threats; ISIL claims responsibility
for Berlin attack

BYLINE: Aamer Madhani, Kim Hjelmgaard, and Jane Onyanga-OmaraUSA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 905 words


Cities around the USA on Tuesday bolstered security around holiday events after
a deadly attack on a crowded Berlin Christmas market that the Islamic State
claimed one of its followers carried out.

The terror group claimed responsibility for the attack that killed 12 and
injured 50 as German authorities resumed searching for the truck driver who
plowed into revelers at the Christmas market.

Authorities released a suspect late Tuesday whom law enforcement officials had
detained shortly after the attack a day earlier. Prosecutors said there was
insufficient evidence tying the suspect to the "act of terrorism."

In a statement through its Amaq News Agency, the militant group -- also known as
ISIL or ISIS -- called the attacker a "soldier of the Islamic State."

The attack on the Christmas market had similarities to vehicular assaults the
Islamic State claimed responsibility for on the campus of Ohio State University
last month and in Nice, France, in July, raising concerns of some U.S. and
European police departments.

In New York and Chicago, law enforcement officials said they had no intelligence
that indicates specific threats to their cities, but they have increased police
presence around Christmas-related events after the Berlin incident.

NYPD Deputy Commissioner John Miller said the department dispatched 500
uniformed counterterrorism officers on the streets of the nation's largest city.
The Chicago Police Department stepped up foot and bike patrols around the
city's downtown Daley Plaza.

In Boston, Mayor Martin Walsh said the city deployed police and put barriers in
place around the "Boston Holiday" market. Walsh said police are monitoring
social media to keep an eye out for potential attacks.

"Our police are always on high alert," Walsh said. "Part of what we want to try
to do with technology -- that we're being criticized for -- is being able to
look on Twitter and look on Facebook just to make sure something like this that
might be planned, that we can break it up."

Investigators in Berlin said the truck, which carried steel beams, was stolen in
Poland. It has Polish license plates, and a man found dead in the passenger seat
was a Polish national.

The dead passenger may have been the truck's original driver, and the truck's
owner said he feared the vehicle could have been hijacked.

The Polish victim was identified as Lukasz Urban, 37.

"I believe he would not give up the vehicle and would defend it to the end if he
were attacked," Lukasz Wasik, the manager of the trucking company where Urban
worked, told Poland's state broadcaster TVP.

In the incident at Ohio State last month, a young Somali refugee rammed his car
into a group of people on campus, then got out of his vehicle and attacked
victims with a knife.

The attacker, who had posted a rant on a Facebook page about the treatment of
Muslims around the world shortly before the incident, was fatally shot by a
police officer but injured 11 people in the attack.

In the Nice attack, a truck driver ran over dozens of people, killing 86, on the
city's promenade during Bastille Day celebrations.

The Islamic State claimed responsibility for both the Nice and Columbus attacks.

Last week, German media reported that a 12-year-old boy tried to set off a nail
bomb at a Christmas market in the southern German city of Ludwigshafen. That
bomb failed to work, so the boy allegedly left explosives in a backpack near a
building housing a shopping center and government office. Those explosives also
failed.

Nobody was injured in either incident. Focus magazine reported the boy was born
in Germany to Iraqi parents and was "religiously radicalized." It said the boy
was being held by German social workers while an investigation takes place.

The State Department warned last month of a "heightened risk" of terrorist
attacks in Europe, especially during the holiday season. It said it had
"credible information" that the Islamic State and its affiliates planned
assaults focusing on the holidays.

German Interior Minister Thomas de Maizière said the suspect in custody  was
from Pakistan and had applied for asylum in Germany. Tuesday, prosecutors said
there was no proof tying the man to the attack, and he was released.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel said it would be particularly troubling if the
attacker was an asylum seeker.

"This would be especially despicable toward the many Germans who are daily
engaged in helping refugees, and toward the many people who truly need this
protection," she said.

Miller, the NYPD deputy commissioner, said in an interview on MSNBC Tuesday that
law enforcement officials are increasingly seeing a "shorter flash to bang" for
terror suspects, referring to the period from when suspects radicalize to when
they attempt to carry out an attack.

European law enforcement agencies said they were on high alert after the Berlin
incident.

In London, the police department announced it was changing its road closures in
the area surrounding Buckingham Palace during the Changing of the Guard military
ceremony, an event that draws large crowds of tourists. New barriers were to be
installed near the palace by Wednesday.

France increased security at its Christmas markets after the attack.

In Italy, Sen. Giacomo Stucchi, the head of Parliament's intelligence
commission, told Sky TG24 TV Tuesday that he expects an increase in the number
of people Italian authorities deem necessary to be closely watched as possible
extremists.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Markus Schreiber, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             307 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Vandal to robber to ex-convict;
Former Idaho player gets life together after prison

BYLINE: Martin Rogers, @mrogersUSAT, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1086 words


Anthony Curcio once dreamed of being a major part of the kind of season the
University of Idaho is completing this week.

A standout wide receiver at Monroe (Wash.) High School, Curcio arrived on the
Vandals' Moscow, Idaho, campus in 1999 with aspirations of making a name for
himself.

He did, but not on the football field, and a few years later, as the architect
of one of the most ingenious bank heists in modern American history.

With the Idaho program preparing for only its second bowl appearance this
century when it takes on Colorado State in Thursday's Famous Idaho Potato Bowl,
Curcio sometimes reflects on what might have been.

"I wanted to be known as a football player and an athlete and all that comes
with it," Curcio told USA TODAY Sports. "Instead, for the rest of my life, no
matter what I try to do to put it right, I am going to be known for some of the
mistakes I made."

No telling of Curcio's story is complete without rewinding to the remarkable
events of Sept. 30, 2008. In a parking lot outside of a Bank of America branch
in Monroe, a group of 15 would-be workers assembled, all clad in matching safety
vests, caps and protective glasses. They had been lured there by a Craigslist
advertisement promising $28.50 per hour for laborers willing to assist in the
Clean Monroe Beautification Project.

The ad was a fake. It had been placed by Curcio and was a crucial part of his
plot.

At 11:05 a.m., a Brinks armored truck pulled up outside the bank and bags
stuffed with money began to be unloaded. At that point one of the workers --
actually Curcio in disguise, including a painter's mask and fake mustache --
sprinted to the vehicle, pepper-sprayed a guard and charged into the woods with
two bags full of cash.

While police launched a manhunt, the culprit was nowhere to be found, evading
capture by avoiding roads and using an inflatable tube to paddle his way along
the river to safety, with $400,000 in his possession.

"It sounds kind of ridiculous when you hear about someone who robbed a bank and
had a tube as their getaway, but on the inside it didn't feel like that," Curcio
said. "For me it was like, 'This is the problem. How do I find a solution that
works?' and that was how I did it."

It was the height of the financial crisis, and banks were highly unpopular at
the time. That, combined with the fact that Curcio had not used a gun or caused
serious harm to anyone, meant he gained a somewhat sympathetic following from a
local public fascinated by his ingenuity. One radio listener calling into a talk
show christened him "D.B. Tuber," a reference to mysterious 1970s airplane
hijacker D.B. Cooper, and the name stuck.

Curcio's liberty did not. He was caught in similarly unusual circumstances,
having been spotted doing a practice run of the heist by a homeless man who
found Curcio's behavior unusual. The man, who had recorded Curcio's license
plate number, handed gear Curcio had left behind to police, enabling them to
make a DNA match.

In one sense, it was bad luck. In another, it might have saved his life.

"As embarrassing as it is to my family, if I had gotten away with it I would
have lived like that to the grave," said Curcio, who says he robbed the bank to
feed his drug habit. "It takes a real big snowball to be rolling to get to the
point where you think about stealing from an armored truck. Even once I was
thrown into jail it took a long time for me to wake up."

It was a downward spiral that had begun in college. Curcio found the campus
party lifestyle to his liking and was suspended during his redshirt year. Idaho
had been running hot before his arrival, having beaten 16-point favorite
Southern Mississippi to win the Humanitarian Bowl.

Curcio got a clean slate when coach Tom Cable, who later became head coach of
Oakland Raiders, came in during his second year and was living right and
training hard. However, Curcio suffered a torn anterior cruciate ligament while
returning a punt in practice. He was prescribed Vicodin for the pain, and he
never played football again.

"I was depressed that my whole identity wrapped around sports was gone," he
said. "Now I was just a student. I latched on to the painkillers, and within a
few prescriptions, my dream of football was gone. The pills had me.

"I blame myself for everything that has happened, not football, but it
definitely played into it. I was stupid. I had no life wisdom because I had been
a good athlete and a big fish in a small pond, so I got praised no matter what.
Now it was gone."

Curcio married his high school sweetheart, and they had two children, and after
college he was making solid money flipping houses. However, his addictions never
left him, and when the financial bubble burst  his asset base was swiftly
rendered worthless. Hence, the bank job.

After being apprehended, Curcio spent five years of a six-year sentence in
medium- to low-security prisons in Texas and Florida.

After his release, Curcio and his wife saved their marriage and he set about
rebuilding his life. He has found success with self-published children's books
revolving around sports themes, including stories about LeBron James and Stephen
Curry.

He also speaks regularly to youngsters about the pitfalls of addiction and did a
TED talk at Idaho. While keen to avoid glamorizing his criminal past, he admits
that the words "prison" and "bank robbery" are a good way to get teenagers to
pay attention.

"I tell young athletes that they have come this far," he said. "Why throw it all
away now like I did?

"I look back now and I had to come to terms with the fact that I was a liar. At
my lowest point, with the drugs, I had no integrity. I had nothing of true
value. After that I started to take account of myself. It sucked to start to
tell the truth because the truth of what I had done and how I was living was so
hard and horrible. But it got me back on track and brought my relationship
back."

Curcio and his family have been back to the Kibbie Dome in Idaho, and he is
delighted for the Vandals, who impressed with an 8-4 season under Paul Petrino
that landed them the bowl bid.

It also makes him wonder how things could have turned out different.

"I would have loved to have given it a real shot," he said. "Here was something
I was good at, that I had talent for and didn't give myself a chance to fulfill
it. I am so thankful that my life has gotten better and I am living the right
way. But I've got a lot of work to do, otherwise people will just remember me as
a guy who stole a bunch of money and got away on a tube."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Anthony Curcio

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             308 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Given time, Wash. could upset

BYLINE: Dan Wolken, dwolken@usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 968 words


Between the road game environment they'll face at the Georgia Dome, the
questions about their schedule and the overall dominance of the team they're
facing, there are plenty of reasons to dismiss the Washington Huskies' chances
of upsetting top-ranked Alabama in the College Football Playoff semifinals.

They're new on the national scene, a team that has been completely remade in
three short years and delivered a Pac-12 title ahead of schedule.

But as good as No. 4 Washington has been this season, it is a decided and
deserved underdog, the kind of program that made a quick leap from 7-6 to 12-1
and might need to take one or two swings at this Playoff deal before being able
to fight in Alabama's weight class.

But Washington seemingly has one factor in its favor. Starting with his very
first team at Boise State, which upset Oklahoma in a legendary Fiesta Bowl, head
coach Chris Petersen's reputation for getting teams to peak after a long layoff
has reached almost mythical proportions.

In addition to the Oklahoma win, Boise State under Petersen beat TCU in the 2010
Fiesta Bowl as 71/2-point underdogs and scored season-opening victories against
three ranked teams in Oregon, Virginia Tech and Georgia.

Though Boise State's success against those teams wasn't much of a surprise after
a while, it was a program that relished playing the name-brand programs and
beating them regularly when Petersen had multiple weeks to prepare.

"He's just really good -- three days, two days, one day, six months -- I think
he's just really good," said Washington receivers coach Bush Hamdan, who was a
backup quarterback at Boise State for the Oklahoma upset. "We felt we belonged
in the big game, and we were just ecstatic to get an opportunity to showcase who
we were on a national stage."

Spend a few days around the Huskies, and that rallying cry sounds familiar,
particularly in this situation against college football's gold-standard program.

Washington players and coaches readily admit they have never faced anything like
what they will see in Atlanta. But they also believe they belong in this game
and will do what is necessary to give themselves a chance.

"It's not so much about Alabama," receiver John Ross said. "It's about who we
are and how well we prepare and the things we've been doing because we've
created something special this whole season."

Much of that  focus goes back to Petersen, whose reputation for being taciturn
and evasive in  public comments around big games plays into the narrative that
there's something mysterious behind the curtain.

More than likely, that's just what Petersen wants his opponents to think. Maybe
the special sauce is simply an amplification of what his staff does anyway:
grinding through tape, fine-tuning game plans, working on fundamentals.

"It comes back to our preparation, and everybody knows Coach Pete is a very
disciplined, detailed coach," co-defensive coordinator and defensive backs coach
Jimmy Lake said. "So now when you have more time to be detailed and prepared,
that's probably right in his wheelhouse."

But the idea that Washington will come out against Alabama with a totally
different offense and a bag full of gadget plays? That seems unlikely; in fact,
Petersen's reputation for trickery is somewhat overwrought.

There's no doubt the Oklahoma game is largely remembered for three creative
plays that helped Boise State win: a hook-and-lateral that tied the score on
fourth-and-18 with 18 seconds left, a halfback pass for a touchdown in overtime
and a Statue of Liberty for the winning two-point conversion.

Thus, Petersen's renown for always having something up his sleeve was born and
became part of every subsequent opponent's scouting report over the last decade.

"I don't think we've run that many this year compared to some other years, but
they get all the attention," offensive coordinator Jonathan Smith said. "When
they work, they're great; when they don't, people feel like we're wasting time.
It's part of our package, but we run regular plays way more than trick plays.

"We've had them in each game; we just haven't called all that many of them.
We've gotten to some some later in the year that had some success, but probably
on average we're talking one a game this year."

And Washington is adamant that its success against Alabama largely will be based
on the same sort of balanced approach that worked so well the entire season.

"We'll probably have some tweaks here and there like we do every other week,"
quarterback Jake Browning said. "But you can't let a good team get you out of
your rhythm that got you there."

For Petersen, though, there are undeniable advantages to having nearly a month
to prepare for Alabama. But it's less about making huge changes, more about
getting healthy, stressing the fundamentals and sharpening edges of what
Washington already does well.

"You don't have to rush to make decisions like you would normally on a game week
where you have a day and a half to say, 'OK, this is what we're doing and we're
going with it,'" Lake said. "Now you can sit back and go, 'You know what, let's
really think about this.'"

For Washington's staff, which has largely been together since Boise State, the
approach has stood the test of time. Petersen is 6-3 in bowls and 9-3 in season
openers.

Washington might not have the same amount of elite talent or physical size as
Alabama, but its preparation will be second to none, which is enough to engender
hope around here that the Peach Bowl can indeed be won in the face of
significant odds, the kind of odds this staff has faced -- and beaten -- before.

"I think Coach Pete always has a good plan," Smith said. "We do have a little
more time to prepare, but so do they. I don't know the exact science on why
we've had some success (off long layoffs), but it's been working."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jennifer Buchanan, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             309 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

One choice alters Colorado's course;
After QB says no to Buffs, stage set for dramatic rise

BYLINE: Brent Schrotenboer, @Schrotenboer, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 1258 words


The rise of the Colorado football program this year almost seemed to come out of
nowhere.

After nearly a decade of futility, it happened so suddenly that a slogan soon
spread to reassure any doubters.

"The rise is real," says a T-shirt sold at the University of Colorado Book
Store.

Even airplane passengers who arrived in Denver this fall were informed about it
after boarding the airport's subway train:

"The rise is real," says the audio greeting -- a public service announcement
recorded by Colorado coach Mike MacIntyre.

In the five previous football seasons, Colorado had a combined record of 5-40 in
the Pac-12 Conference. This year, Colorado (10-3) finished 8-2 in the Pac-12 and
will play in its first bowl game since 2007 on Dec.29 when it faces Oklahoma
State in the Alamo Bowl.

But it all could have turned out much differently, if not for a single player's
decision in May to not join the rise.

Fateful decision

Davis Webb was an off-and-on starter at quarterback for Texas Tech from 2013 to
2015 but was looking to join a new team for his final college season in 2016.
After being recruited by Colorado coaches, Webb announced in January that he
would play for the Buffaloes before changing his mind in May to instead join the
University of California.

His decision to not attend Colorado changed the Buffs' future by changing the
outlook of the team's quarterback position, not just for this year but for
future years, too.

Consider what could have happened if Webb had gone to Colorado:

Sefo Liufau, Colorado's senior starting quarterback, might have sat out this
season as a redshirt instead of leading the Buffaloes to the brink of the Pac-12
championship.

Steven Montez, Colorado's freshman backup quarterback, might have been stuck
farther down the bench instead of developing into the team's quarterback of the
future. He started three games when Liufau was injured this year and won two.

"Probably for our program, it's probably the best thing that Davis Webb did not
come," MacIntyre told USA TODAY Sports.

MacIntyre cites two reasons for this: because of what Liufau did this season and
because Montez was able to get lots of experience that he wouldn't have gotten
with Webb and Liufau above him in the pecking order.

Webb also told USA TODAY Sports his decision worked out for everybody, including
himself. At Cal, Webb started every game for the Bears, who finished 5-7. He
served as a team captain and led the Pac-12 in total offense with 348.8 yards
per game. Along with Liufau and others, he has been invited to the Senior Bowl
next month to work out in front of pro scouts.

Webb said he wishes Cal won more games this season but otherwise, "It was
exactly what I wanted it to be."

"I'm really excited to be a Golden Bear," Webb said. "At the same time, I was
very happy to see Colorado be very successful. ... I loved Colorado, my visit. I
loved the coaches. I loved the teammates. I thought they could be a great
football team, and they were."

Balancing act

No one will ever know if the Buffaloes would have improved as much this year
with Webb as they did with Liufau. Webb finished fourth in the Pac-12 in pass
efficiency (135.6), just ahead of Liufau, who finished fifth (134.0).

What is certain is that Lifuau represents the guts of this team, this year, this
rise. He's a three-year captain who led Colorado through some of its darkest
hours. Asked what Liufau meant to Colorado's rise, MacIntyre summed it up in two
words.

"Everything," he said. "Everything."

His teammates "saw what he did, how he worked, his toughness, his ability to do
things," MacIntyre said. "I knew once our team caught up with Sefo, our team
would win this many games."

Earlier this year, MacIntyre didn't know if Liufau would be available to play
this season because of a Lisfranc foot injury he suffered in the 11th game of
2015. That's why CU coaches pursued Webb. They wanted an insurance policy at
quarterback in case Liufau wasn't healthy enough after missing the final two
games of 2015 and all of spring practice.

"They were needing a quarterback," Webb said. "That's what the coaches told me."

If Liufau wasn't ready, Liufau could have redshirted this year and saved his
final season at CU for 2017.

As Colorado prepared to pursue Webb, MacIntyre said he sat down with Liufau and
explained the situation.

"I said, 'If you don't want me to bring him in, I won't even talk to him, OK?'"
MacIntyre said. "And he looked at me dead in the eye, and he said, 'We've got a
really good football team next year, and I've got a broke Lisfranc. And I
believe I'll be back. If I'm not, if I was you and I was in your shoes, I'd try
to go get him, because I'm not well. But if I'm well, I'll just beat him out.'"

As it turned out, Liufau worked hard to rehabilitate and was ready to play in
the summer. If Webb had stuck with Colorado, Liufau said he would have competed
with him in the preseason to become the starter. And if Webb would have beaten
him for the job, Liufau likely would not have played this year.

"I guess I would redshirt," Liufau told USA TODAY Sports. "Just because it gives
you another opportunity to look at things and another opportunity to play
again."

Webb changed his mind about Colorado after Cal hired an offensive coordinator,
Jake Spavital, who ran an offense similar to the one he played in at Texas Tech.

"Obviously it worked out for him over at Cal, and it worked out for us, having a
really good year with Sefo and Montez and being able to develop a young
quarterback in Steven," said Colorado co-offensive coordinator Darrin
Chiaverini, who was on staff at Texas Tech when Webb was there and helped pursue
him for the Buffs. "If Davis comes, we don't get a chance to really develop
Steven the way we had this year. I think it was good for all parties involved,
and there's no hard feelings."

Ideal ending

It's hard to imagine the Buffs rallying this year without Liufau. The only times
they lost were when Liufau was knocked out of the game with an ankle injury (vs.
Michigan and Washington) or didn't start because of it (at Southern California).
Liufau's ability to throw and make gutsy runs helped the Buffs finally rise over
the hump, two years after they finished 2-10, including 0-9 in the Pac-12. Last
year, the Buffs finished 4-9 overall and 1-8 in the Pac-12. This year, they were
a win away from a berth in the Rose Bowl.

Liufau, who is from Tacoma, Wash., finishes his college career as the 2016
Polynesian College Football Player of the Year and the owner of 98 school
records, including  total yards in a career (10,509).

He has more career starts (39) than any other quarterback in Colorado history
and is the first Colorado player in more than 120 years to serve as team captain
for three seasons.

"It means everything, just to be able to have success with these guys," Liufau
said. "I've been here four years now, haven't quit, haven't given up, haven't
transferred. For it to all finally come together in the final year, it's just a
blessing and just makes us all happy that our hard work is finally paying off."

That's what his coach says he wanted when he tried to bring in another
quarterback last winter. MacIntyre wanted to save Liufau's senior season for
2017, if necessary. The rise became real this year instead.

"I didn't want him to limp through his senior year and not go out like he should
when he's been our guy that has led our team, a three-time captain, our
warrior," MacIntyre said. "He's taken the brunt of everything. I wanted him to
go out like he's going out. That was my dream, and the dream came true."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo James Snook, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             310 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Redskins offense in deep trouble;
Panthers show way to stop vertical game

BYLINE: Lorenzo Reyes, @LorenzoGReyes, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 591 words


Slow starts, an inept rushing game, a one-dimensional offense and an abysmal
third-down conversion rate -- all those defects have put the Washington Redskins
on the outside looking in in the NFC playoff picture.

In Monday night's 26-15 loss to the Carolina Panthers, Washington's problems
could be traced to another particular flaw.

Carolina's defense put out a blueprint of how to keep Washington basic: take
away the deep pass. When the Panthers did that, the Redskins couldn't adjust.

"First off, we were outcoached today," Washington coach Jay Gruden said after
the loss. "There's no question about that. And I think they played better than
us today."

This season, quarterback Kirk Cousins has proved himself capable on deep throws,
an element that has opened up the rest of the offense. In the previous four
games before Monday, Cousins' longest completion in each went for 80, 59, 67 and
70 yards. His biggest gain Monday went for 23 yards.

Panthers safeties Kurt Coleman and Tre Boston helped erase the threat of
Washington's explosive passing plays.

"We tried to take a couple of shots," Gruden said. "Their safeties were playing
pretty high on occasion, and we didn't have down-the-field shots. They were too
deep. We couldn't get them out there."

With the deep passing game ineffective, the rest of the offense sputtered.

Washington entered the game having gone three-and-out only 15 times this season.
Against the Panthers, the offense did it five times, including on the opening
drive. The run game was held to 29yards on 13 carries.

The most significant casualty of Carolina's denial of the deep ball, though,
came on third down.

Washington converted two of 12 conversion attempts, limiting Cousins' chances to
launch passes downfield.

"It's not just one thing," Cousins said in his postgame news conference. "It was
a missed throw, a missed catch. It was a breakdown in different ways each time.
But there were certainly some makable third downs where the past several weeks I
would say we've been much better on those third-and-mediums than we were
tonight.

"If we hadn't converted those third-and-mediums in other games, we wouldn't have
been able to do what we did offensively."

Cousins was 32-for-47 for 315 yards, but he threw a debilitating interception
after Coleman jumped a route. Cousins also fumbled on a sack that gave Carolina
the ball at the 1-yard line to start the second half. The Panthers' ensuing
touchdown pushed their lead to 20-9.

Washington was held to a season-low 15 points Monday. That the output came
against the NFL's worst-ranked passing defense only further underscores how much
Washington's reliance on the deep ball hurt the team against the Panthers.

To reach the playoffs, Washington (7-6-1) needs help from the Green Bay Packers
and Tampa Bay Buccaneers, who are tied at 8-6 and a half-game ahead in the
wild-card race. And with games remaining at the Chicago Bears (3-11) and against
the New York Giants (10-4), Washington's quest to make the postseason in
consecutive years for the first time since 1992 is in serious danger.

"Everyone wants to talk about the playoffs, but you know there's no point in
talking about it if we can't win the games we are supposed to win," defensive
end Chris Baker said Monday. "We can't come out and have a turnover on the first
play of the second half and give up a touchdown and continue to let them
continue drives when we should be off the field.

"It's very frustrating to continue to see teams who shouldn't be playing with us
beat us, so (we) have to find a way to be better."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Geoff Burke, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             311 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Don't fret about 'bid' or 'ask';
Q: What is the difference between the two?

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 191 words


A: Stocks have two prices: The bid and ask. The difference goes to specialized
traders who facilitate trading and is a cost to you. But luckily, the difference
is usually tiny.

When you buy a stock, you pay the ask. When you sell, you get the bid.

It's similar to other auction markets. Car dealers have one price they'll buy
your car for, but another very different price at which they will sell that car
to someone else. Typically, the ask is higher than the bid price.

The difference between the bid and the ask is a cost to you as an investor, but
not one to get too concerned with when talking about most actively traded
securities.

General Electric this week, for instance, was trading at a bid of $32.32 a share
and ask of $32.33, or just a penny different. Actively traded exchange-traded
funds are similar, such as the SPDR S&P 500 fund where the ask per share is just
a penny more than the bid. The spread can get much larger with less-traded
securities, but most of those aren't appropriate for most investors anyway. If
you see a big spread between the bid and the ask, you might want to see if
there's a more actively traded version first.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             312 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Beyond the numbers

BYLINE: Bill Keveney

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 175 words


MAKING AN ENTRANCE

Star, the latest music-focused offering from Empire creator Lee Daniels, had a
decent sneak peek turnout, attracting 6.7 million viewers Wednesday. (It returns
Jan. 4 at 9 ET/PT.) That's just a 12% drop from Empire's fall finale (7.6
million) earlier in the evening.

SAME CITY, NEW HOME

Nashville, which is moving to CMT after being canceled by ABC, had its own
one-hour sneak peek of Season 5 that drew 1.7million viewers Thursday in
broadcasts on five Viacom cable networks: CMT (423,000), Nick at Nite (644,000),
TV Land (403,000), MTV (180,000) and VH1 (93,000). The show's May finale on ABC
attracted 4.2 million. The full, two-hour opener premieres Jan. 5 (9 ET/PT) on
CMT.

REALITY FINALES

NBC's The Voice closed Season 11 Tuesday with 12.1 million viewers, after
drawing 11.2 million for the performance finale that preceded it  Monday. On
CBS, Survivor: Millennials Vs. Gen X -- the

competition show's 33rd edition -- closed its

season Wednesday with 9.1million viewers.

BEYOND THE NUMBERS

The news behind the ratings

BY Bill Keveney

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             313 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Rogue One' end had the Force, but went wrong;
Easter eggs and CGI cameos weigh down a very good original story

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 667 words


Spoiler alert! The following includes spoilers from Rogue One: A Star Wars
Story.

It was never going to be a "happily ever after" ending.

Rogue One was  set up to be uncategorizable. Part prequel, part spinoff, Rogue
One had to create a story and a cast of characters that were  engaging enough to
sustain a movie but not so important or independent  that they confused the
existing Star Wars films.

Rogue One chose to focus on the group of rebels responsible for stealing the
plans to the Death Star. And it gave a rather good reason for these rebels never
to be  involved in another mission for the Alliance: They all died.

Every  main character in Rogue One, from Jyn (Felicity Jones) to the comic
relief droid K-2SO (Alan Tudyk), dies. Most of our heroes (and the main villain)
are killed in a harrowing, visually spectacular  battle sequence that comprises
much of the film's third act. Each member of the team is given an individual
moment to say goodbye, including Chirrut becoming "one with the Force"  and
Bodhi facing his fear before a grenade takes out his ship. Jyn and Cassian die
in each others' arms on the beach of Scarif after transmitting the plans to the
Rebel fleet above the planet, as the blast from the Death Star overwhelms them.

Star Wars has gone to dark places before, but Rogue One's coda is an unexpected
and emotional tragedy. In many ways, the film highlights the cost, both in lives
and morals, it  would take to rebel against an all-powerful, fascist regime.
It's a story the original trilogy never  had the time to tell.

It was a truly beautiful sequence. It's just too bad it's almost ruined minutes
later.

After every main character has perished, the movie cuts to the transmitted plans
being moved through the Rebel fleet as they are pursued by Darth Vader. The
plans eventually land on a familiar-looking ship that escapes Vader's clutches,
and they are given to a woman in a certain white dress. The movie could have
ended there. But instead, the shot cuts up to the distinctly fake face of a
young Princess Leia.

It's unclear exactly how this uncanny valley of a young Leia was created (in the
credits, Carrie Fisher given  "special thanks"), but it's clear that CGI was
involved. She's not the only CGI character in the film: A New Hope's  Grand Moff
Tarkin appears sporting the face of actor Peter Cushing, who died in 1994. But
while Tarkin is merely unnerving, the Leia cameo is so jarring as to take the
audience completely out of the film at its most emotional moment. Leia's
appearance was meant to help the film end on a hopeful note, but instead it ends
on a weird and unsettling one.

Rogue One was a Star Wars movie unlike any other. It was at its strongest when
it leaned into this fact, striking its own story beats and tone, creating
characters that explore new themes. Each reference to the existing films became
more jarring  than the last. Jimmy Smits'  cameo as Bail Organa, a character
introduced in Attack of the Clones, isn't necessary with Mon Mothma (herself a
character from Return of the Jedi) leading up the rebellion. A cut to R2-D2 and
C-3PO near the film's climax stops the entire scene in its tracks, as the droids
make a joke dissonant with Rogue One's serious tone. Even including the Red and
Gold squadron leaders from A New Hope in the final battle is awkward,
considering the young actors' faces were somehow re-created, perhaps through CGI
or archival footage. The biggest sin of them all is Leia, a computer-generated
spoiler that jerks a viewer harshly back to reality after the fantasy of that
final tragic battle.  Fans less familiar with the saga might  enjoy Rogue One
more, when all these in-jokes and references fly over their heads, while a
super-fan cringes with each  one.

Inevitably, Rogue One was not ruined by the appearance of Leia, but its legacy
(and its Rotten Tomatoes score) is certainly marred. The forthcoming stand-alone
Star Wars films could  learn from Rogue's mistakes. Let a young Han Solo stand
on his own.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo photos by Lucasfilm

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             314 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Corrections & Clarifications

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 18 words


Ginger Rogers starred with Fred Allen in the movie We're Not Married! A story
Monday misidentified her co-star.


LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             315 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

walgreens, rite aid to sell stores to fred's

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 166 words


walgreens, rite aid  to sell stores to fred's

Walgreens Boots Alliance and Rite Aid said Tuesday they plan to sell hundreds of
Rite Aid locations to rival Fred's for $950 million. If the sale of 865 stores
gets the green light from regulators, Fred's would instantly become one of the
biggest U.S. pharmacy chains, and Walgreens' year-long quest to combine with
Rite Aid would move closer to the companies' goal of closing the estimated $9.5
billion deal at the start of next year.

pulse victims' families sue social networks

Facebook, Google and Twitter have been sued by the families of three victims
slain in the mass shooting at Orlando nightclub Pulse for allegedly providing
"material support" to the Islamic State. The lawsuit is the latest to target
popular Internet services for purportedly making it  easy for the Islamic State
to spread its message.  Facebook has said its  standards bar groups from
engaging in terrorist activity. Google and Twitter did not respond to requests
for comment.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             316 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Supporting a trans child isn't abuse

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 230 words


Facebook

For those saying the girl on the "National Geographic" cover is an example of
child abuse: Child abuse is when you force a child to live the life you think
they should based on your predefined notions of gender.

When you do, the rate of suicide increases. When parents come to accept and
support the child after proper counseling, that percentage drops. Seems to me
actions that lead to death in high rates are child abuse.

Edward Read

If someone is a good and decent person, obeys the law and is empathetic and
caring toward others, who am I to judge them for a lifestyle or gender
identification that makes them happy? Who am I to cast the first stone?

Steve Evets

Nine-year-olds are too young to make gender decisions. Given the body changes
yet to come, at least wait until puberty.

Sal Maggiore

Twitter

We asked followers what they thought of "National Geographic" issue, which
featured a trans girl on the cover, on gender.

Child exploitation for money is not spreading awareness for a cause. It's child
abuse.

@ann_boger

Huge but important venture by "National Geographic." Cultural and social issues
getting worldwide reach.

@PlumbbobGreen

How about a geography magazine that focuses on, say, geography?

@clevelandbob58

Promoting equality? Educating on diversity? Embracing uniqueness and
individualism? Yeah, we dig it.

@LeonFornelli

For more, follow @USATOpinion or #tellusatoday.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             317 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

News in brief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 375 words


MH370 search teams may be looking in wrong area

The doomed Malaysian Airlines jet that disappeared over the Indian Ocean almost
three years ago probably isn't anywhere in the vast area designated as the
primary search zone, experts said Tuesday.

Flight 370 was bound for Beijing from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, with 239 people
aboard when it slammed into the ocean. Analysis of hourly signals from the
Boeing 777's satellite communications suggested the plane spiraled into the
water about 1,000 miles west of Australia.

A deep-sea search of almost 50,000 square miles has thus far failed to locate
the fuselage.

That leaves an area north of the search zone as the most likely resting place
for the airliner, the report says. That would be another 10,000 square miles.

--John Bacon

Man accused of bombings in N.Y., N.J. arraigned

A New Jersey man accused of planting bombs in September in New York and New
Jersey that injured more than 30 people pleaded not guilty Tuesday to state
charges that included five counts of attempted murder.

Ahmad Khan Rahimi of Elizabeth, N.J., was arraigned in Union County Superior
Court  after being indicted in connection with shooting at five officers Sept.
19 as he was being captured after the bombings.

In November, a federal grand jury in Manhattan indicted Rahimi in connection
with detonating a bomb Sept. 17 in New York City's Chelsea neighborhood. He also
has been charged in New Jersey in connection with pipe bomb blasts Sept. 16 in
Seaside Park and undetonated explosives found near a New Jersey Transit station
Sept. 18 in Elizabeth.

--Katie Sobko, The Record

White Christmas dreams dashed for the East

The Polar Vortex may have been a week early. If you thought the recent Arctic
blasts increased your chances for a white Christmas, you may be sorely
disappointed.

After a frigid couple of weeks across the eastern half of the U.S., a warmer
shift is anticipated this week and into the upcoming holiday weekend, said
AccuWeather meteorologist Brett Rossio.

Still, it will remain cold enough in much of the western mountains, northern
Plains, Upper Midwest, Great Lakes and interior sections of the Northeast to
retain snow cover through the weekend, thereby securing a white Christmas, the
Weather Channel said.

--Doyle Rice

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo HOLGER HOLLEMANN, european pressphoto agency

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             318 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

USA TODAY SUPER 25

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 7C

LENGTH: 791 words


High school boys basketball

1. La Lumiere,  La Porte, Ind. (10-0)

Previous (PR): 1. Result: Jaren Jackson had nine points and 18 rebounds in an
85-63 defeat of New Albany, Ind.

2. Sierra Canyon, Chatsworth, Calif. (6-0)

PR: 3. Result: Marvin BagleyIII had 28 points in an 83-79 defeat of then-No. 2
Oak Hill Academy (Mouth of Wilson, Va.).

3. IMG Academy, Bradenton, Fla. (9-0)

PR: 5. Results: Trevon Duval had 17 points and six rebounds in a 71-56 win
Monday vs. No.17 Neumann-Goretti (Philadelphia) in the City of Palms Classic in
Fort Myers, Fla. Emmitt Williams had 19 points in a 62-59 defeat of then-No. 15
Norcross, Ga., in the City of Palms Classic.

4. Montverde (Fla.) Academy (10-0)

PR: 4. Result: R.J. Barrett had 21 points in a 76-45 win Monday vs. Jonesboro,
Ga., in the City of Palms Classic.

5. Oak Hill, Mouth of Wilson, Va. (15-1)

PR: 2. Result: Billy Preston had 19 points and 13 rebounds in an 89-48 defeat of
Dr.Phillips (Orlando) on Monday in the Iolani Classic in Honolulu.

6. Chino Hills, Calif. (10-0)

PR: 6. Result: LiAngelo Ball had 22 points in a 76-68 win Monday vs. Roosevelt
(Eastvale) in the Tarkanian Classic in Las Vegas.

7. Mater Dei,  Santa Ana, Calif. (11-0)

PR: 7. Result: Spencer Freedman had 26 points in an 86-79 defeat of Bishop
Gorman (Las Vegas) on Monday in the Tarkanian Classic.

8. Findlay Prep, Henderson, Nev. (15-0)

PR: 8. Result: Lamine Diane had 18 points in a 95-37 win Monday vs. Iolani
(Honolulu) in the Iolani Classic.

9. Simeon, Chicago (6-0)

PR: 9. Result: Evan Gilyard hit the winning free throws in a 59-57 defeat of
Morgan Park (Chicago).

10. The Patrick School, Hillside, N.J. (2-0)

PR: 10. Result: Nick Richards had 15 points and nine rebounds in a 65-53 defeat
of then-No. 19 Hudson Catholic (Jersey City) in the City of Palms Classic.

11. DeMatha Catholic, Hyattsville, Md. (5-0)

PR: 11. Result: Ryan Allen had 17 points in a 68-58 defeat of St.John's College
(Washington, D.C.).

12. Curie, Chicago (9-0)

PR: 12. Result: Defeated Hyde Park (Chicago) 79-56 as Elijah Joiner had 23
points.

13. Nathan Hale, Seattle (5-0)

PR: 13. Results: Defeated Ingraham (Seattle) 92-50 and Cleveland (Seattle)
86-52.

14. Norcross, Ga. (9-1)

PR: 15. Results: Rayshaun Hammonds had 22 points in a 53-44 defeat of Pace
Academy (Atlanta) in the City of Palms Classic on Monday. Lost 62-59 to
then-No.5 IMG Academy (Bradenton, Fla.) in the City of Palms Classic.

15. Roselle (N.J.) Catholic (2-0)

PR: Not ranked. Results: Nazreon Reid had 15 points and seven rebounds in a
79-49 defeat of Trenton Catholic. Nathaniel Pierre Louis had 15 points in a
71-58 defeat of Pope John (Sparta).

16. Shadow Mountain, Phoenix (11-0)

PR: 16. Result: Jaelen House had 19 points in an 87-78 defeat of Pinnacle
(Phoenix).

17. Neumann-Goretti, Philadelphia (2-1)

PR: 17. Results: Lost 71-56 Monday to then-No. 5 IMG Academy in the City of
Palms Classic. Quade Green had 37 points in an 87-73 defeat of Imhotep Charter
(Philadelphia).

18. Sunrise Christian Academy, Wichita (11-2)

PR: 18. Result: Isaiah Jasey had 12 points, 10 rebounds and five blocked shots
in a 68-37 defeat of Creating Young Minds (Irving, Texas) in the National
Hoopfest in Dallas.

19. Wasatch Academy, Mount Pleasant, Utah (12-2)

PR: Not ranked. Result: Josip Vrankic and Emmanuel Akot each had 16 points in a
74-41 defeat of Saugus (Santa Clarita, Calif.) on Monday.

20. Bishop Montgomery, Torrance, Calif. (6-1)

PR: 20. Results: Defeated BC Christian Academy (Port Coquitlam, British
Columbia) 57-26 in the Mission Prep Classic in San Luis Obispo. Ethan Thompson
had 25 points in a 77-61 defeat of Kingwood Christian Life Center (Kingwood,
Texas) in the Mission Prep Classic.

21. Hudson Catholic, Jersey City (1-1)

PR: 19. Results: Lost 65-53 to No. 10 The Patrick School (Hillside) in the City
of Palms Classic. Jahvon Quinerly had 17 points in a 65-51 defeat of the Maret
School (Washington, D.C.) in the City of Palms Classic.

22. Lincoln,  Brooklyn, N.Y. (7-0)

PR: 23. Result: Michael Reid had 19 points in a 63-53 defeat of South Shore
(Brooklyn) on Sunday.

23. Klein Forest, Houston (15-0)

PR: 24. Result: Cedric Alley had 25 points in a 66-57 defeat of The Woodlands.

24. Westerville (Ohio) South (7-0)

PR: 25. Result: Kaleb Wesson had 18 points in an 83-74 defeat of Garfield
Heights on Sunday.

25. Edmond (Okla.) North (6-0)

PR: Not ranked. Result: Marques Wilson set his school's career scoring record
with his 1,111th point in a 77-43 defeat of Deer Creek (Edmond).

Dropped out: No. 14 Paul VI (Fairfax, Va.); No. 21 George Washington, (Denver);
and No. 22 El Dorado, Ark.

The Super 25 rankings are compiled by USA TODAY Sports' Jim Halley, based on
results, tradition, quality of players and strength of schedule. For regional
rankings, go to usatodayhss.com. The next rankings are Jan. 11.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             319 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

USA TODAY WOMEN COACHE'S POLL

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 5C

LENGTH: 586 words


Women's basketball (times p.m. Eastern)

1. Connecticut (10-0)

Points: 775 (31 first-place votes). Previous ranking: 1. Upcoming game:
Wednesday at Nebraska (BTN, 9).

2. Notre Dame (11-1)

Points: 733. Previous ranking: 2. Tuesday's result: Beat Michigan State 79-61.
Next game: Dec. 27 at Chattanooga.

3. Maryland (11-0)

Points: 704. Previous ranking: 3. Upcoming game: Wednesday at Duquesne.

4. Baylor (11-1)

Points: 692. Previous ranking: 4. Next game: Dec. 29 vs. Kansas State.

5. Mississippi State (13-0)

Points: 636. Previous ranking: 5. Tuesday's result: Beat Alabama State 90-47.
Next game: Dec. 28 vs. Northwestern State.

6. South Carolina (9-1)

Points: 630. Previous ranking: 6. Upcoming game: Wednesday at Savannah State.

7. Florida State (11-1)

Points: 592. Previous ranking: 7. Upcoming game: Wednesday at Mercer.

8. Louisville (11-2)

Points: 558. Previous ranking: 8. Upcoming game: Wednesday at Vanderbilt.

9. Washington (11-1)

Points: 512. Previous ranking: 11. Upcoming game: Thursday at Brigham Young.

10. UCLA (9-2)

Points: 473. Previous ranking: 9. Tuesday's result: Beat North Carolina A&T
83-42. Next game: Dec. 30 vs. Utah.

11. Miami (Fla.) (11-1)

Points: 452. Previous ranking: 12. Tuesday's result: Beat Maine 76-51. Next
game: Dec. 29 vs. No. 7 Florida State.

12. West Virginia (11-0)

Points: 415. Previous ranking: 14. Upcoming game: Wednesday vs. Mount Saint
Mary's.

13. Ohio State (9-4)

Points: 388. Previous ranking: 13. Upcoming game: Wednesday vs. Winthrop.

14. Stanford (8-2)

Points: 387. Previous ranking: 10. Upcoming game: Wednesday at George
Washington.

15. Oregon State (8-1)

Points: 301. Previous ranking: 15. Tuesday's result: Played Quinnipiac. Upcoming
game: Wednesday vs. TBD in Play4Kay Shootout in Las Vegas.

16. Syracuse (9-3)

Points: 251. Previous ranking: 18. Tuesday's result: Beat Old Dominion 92-66.
Upcoming game: Wednesday vs. TexasA&M in the Florida Sunshine Classic in Winter
Park, Fla.

17. Texas (6-4)

Points: 237. Previous ranking: 17. Tuesday's result: Beat New Orleans 80-48.
Next game: Dec. 29 vs. Texas Tech.

18. Duke (10-1)

Points: 209. Previous ranking: 20. Upcoming game: Wednesday vs. Villanova.

19. Arizona State (8-2)

Points: 197. Previous ranking: 21. Upcoming game: Wednesday vs. Holy Cross.

20. California (11-0)

Points: 145. Previous ranking: 24. Tuesday's result: Beat No. 21 Oklahoma 82-74.
Upcoming game: Wednesday vs. Arkansas State in Las Vegas.

21. Oklahoma (8-3)

Points: 141. Previous ranking: 22. Tuesday's result: Lost to No. 20 California
82-74. Upcoming game: Wednesday vs. Portland State in Las Vegas.

22. DePaul (7-4)

Points: 138. Previous ranking: 16. Tuesday's result: Played Tennessee-Martin.
Next game: Dec. 28 at Georgetown.

23. Virginia Tech (11-0)

Points: 134. Previous ranking: 25. Upcoming game: Wednesday vs. Radford.

24. Kentucky (8-3)

Points: 98. Previous ranking: 23. Upcoming game: Wednesday vs. Washington State.

25. South Florida (9-1)

Points: 68. Previous ranking: 19. Tuesday's result: Beat Santa Clara 63-54.
Upcoming games: Wednesday vs. UNLV.

Dropped out: None.

Others receiving votes: Colorado (10-0) 67; Oklahoma State (9-0) 40; Michigan
State (10-2) 34; Texas A&M (8-2) 11; Michigan (10-3) 9; Wisconsin-Green Bay
(8-2) 9; Northwestern (10-2) 8; Oregon (9-2) 7; Gonzaga (8-2) 6; Florida (7-3)
5; Kansas State (10-1) 4; Tennessee (6-4) 3; Temple (7-3) 2; Utah (10-0) 2; Penn
State (9-2) 1; Tulane (6-4) 1.

The USA TODAY Sports board of coaches is made up of 32 head coaches at Division
I institutions. All are members of the Women's Basketball Coaches Association.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             320 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

USA TODAY Sports/MMAJunkie MMA rankings

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 7C

LENGTH: 696 words


The rankings take into account a fighter's wins/losses, quality of competition,
finishing rate/dominance and frequency of fights. Fighters are ineligible to be
ranked after they've been inactive for 24 months, either because of injuries,
drug/conduct suspensions, contract disputes or self-imposed hiatuses. Fighters
will be ranked in their primary weight class. Catchweight fights and bouts
outside of the fighter's primary weight class can have a positive or negative
impact on the ranking. However, non-titleholders can be ranked in only one
weight class and, in most cases, they won't be ranked in a new weight class
until they've had their first fight at that weight.

POUND-FOR-POUND

1. Demetrious Johnson (25-2-1) UFC

2. Jon Jones (22-1-0) UFC

3. Dominick Cruz (22-1-0) UFC

4. Daniel Cormier (18-1-0) UFC

5. Conor McGregor (21-3-0) UFC

6. Jose Aldo (26-2-0) UFC

7. Stipe Miocic (16-2-0) UFC

8. Tyron Woodley (16-3-1) UFC

9. Anthony Johnson (22-5-0) UFC

10. Khabib Nurmagomedov (24-0-0) UFC

HEAVYWEIGHT

1. Stipe Miocic (16-2-0) UFC

2. Fabricio Werdum (21-6-1) UFC

3. Cain Velasquez (14-2-0) UFC

4. Junior Dos Santos (18-4-0) UFC

5. Ben Rothwell (36-10-0) UFC

6. Alistair Overeem (41-15-0) UFC

7. Vitaly Minakov (18-0-0) Bellator

8. Josh Barnett (35-8-0) UFC

9. Andrei Arlovski (25-13-0) UFC

10. Derrick Lewis (17-4-0) UFC

LIGHT HEAVYWEIGHT

1. Jon Jones (22-1-0) UFC

2. Daniel Cormier (18-1-0) UFC

3. Anthony Johnson (22-5-0) UFC

4. Phil Davis (17-3-0) Bellator

5. Ryan Bader (22-5-0) UFC

6. Glover Teixeira (25-5-0) UFC

7. Alexander Gustafsson (17-4-0) UFC

8. Jimi Manuwa (16-2-0) UFC

9. Ovince Saint Preux (19-9-0) UFC

10. Liam McGeary (11-1-0) Bellator

MIDDLEWEIGHT

1. Michael Bisping (30-7-0) UFC

2. Yoel Romero (12-1-0) UFC

3. Luke Rockhold (15-3-0) UFC

4. Ronaldo Souza (23-4-0) UFC

5. Chris Weidman (13-2-0) UFC

6. Robert Whittaker (17-4-0) UFC

7. Gegard Mousasi (41-6-2) UFC

8. Derek Brunson (16-4-0) UFC

9. David Branch (19-3-0) WSOF

10. Vitor Belfort (25-13-0) UFC

WELTERWEIGHT

1. Tyron Woodley (16-3-1) UFC

2. Stephen Thompson (13-1-1) UFC

3. Robbie Lawler (27-11-0) UFC

4. Rory MacDonald (18-4-0) Bellator

5. Demian Maia (24-6-0) UFC

6. Ben Askren (15-0-0) One

7. Donald Cerrone (32-7-0) UFC

8. Johny Hendricks (17-5-0) UFC

9. Dong Hyun Kim (21-3-1) UFC

10. Jake Shields (31-8-1) WSOF

LIGHTWEIGHT

1. Conor McGregor (21-3-0) UFC

2. Khabib Nurmagomedov (24-0-0) UFC

3. Tony Ferguson (22-3-0) UFC

4. Eddie Alvarez (28-5-0) UFC

5. Rafael dos Anjos (25-8-0) UFC

6. Edson Barboza (18-4-0) UFC

7. Nate Diaz (19-11-0) UFC

8. Justin Gaethje (16-0-0) WSOF

9. Michael Chiesa (14-2-0) UFC

10. Beneil Dariush (14-2-0) UFC

FEATHERWEIGHT

1. Jose Aldo (26-2-0) UFC

2. Max Holloway (17-3-0) UFC

3. Frankie Edgar (21-5-1) UFC

4. Chad Mendes (17-4-0) UFC

5. Ricardo Lamas (17-5-0) UFC

6. Cub Swanson (24-7-0) UFC

7. Daniel Straus (24-6-0) Bellator

8. Patricio Freire (25-4-0) Bellator

9. Anthony Pettis (19-6-0) UFC

10. Charles Oliveira (21-7-0) UFC

BANTAMWEIGHT

1. Dominick Cruz (22-1-0) UFC

2. T.J. Dillashaw (13-3-0) UFC

3. Raphael Assuncao (23-5-0) UFC

4. Bibiano Fernandes (20-3-0) One

5. Marlon Moraes (17-4-1) WSOF

6. Eduardo Dantas (19-4-0) Bellator

7. Cody Garbrandt (10-0-0) UFC

8. John Lineker (29-7-0) UFC

9. Jimmie Rivera (20-1-0) UFC

10. Bryan Caraway (21-7-0) UFC

FLYWEIGHT

1. Demetrious Johnson (25-2-1) UFC

2. Joseph Benavidez (25-4-0) UFC

3. Henry Cejudo (10-2-0) UFC

4. Kyoji Horiguchi (18-2-0) UFC

5. Jussier Formiga (19-4-0) UFC

6. Ali Bagautinov (14-5-0) UFC

7. Wilson Reis (21-6-0) UFC

8. Ian McCall (13-5-1) UFC

9. John Moraga (16-5-0) UFC

10. Dustin Ortiz (16-6-0) UFC

WOMEN'S POUND-FOR-POUND

1. Joanna Jedrzejczyk (13-0-0) UFC

2. Cristiane Justino (17-1-0) UFC

3. Claudia Gadelha (14-2-0) UFC

4. Amanda Nunes (13-4-0) UFC

5. Ronda Rousey (12-1-0) UFC

6. Barb Honchak (10-2-0) Invicta

7. Julianna Pena (8-2-0) UFC

8. Jessica Aguilar (19-5-0) UFC

9. Ayaka Hamasaki (13-1-0) Invicta

10. Valentina Shevchenko (13-2-0) UFC

WOMEN'S BANTAMWEIGHT

1. Amanda Nunes (13-4-0) UFC

2. Ronda Rousey (12-1-0) UFC

3. Julianna Pena (8-2-0) UFC

4. Valentina Shevchenko (13-2-0) UFC

5. Holly Holm (10-2-0) UFC

WOMEN'S STRAWWEIGHT

1. Joanna Jedrzejczyk (13-0-0) UFC

2. Claudia Gadelha (14-2-0) UFC

3. Jessica Aguilar (19-5-0) UFC

4. Karolina Kowalkiewicz (10-1-0) UFC

5. Carla Esparza (11-3-0) UFC

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             321 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

VW will buy back another 20,000 cars;
Latest deal covers larger diesel vehicles from Audi, Porsche

BYLINE: Nathan Bomey, @NathanBomey, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 571 words


Volkswagen Group has agreed to yet another compensation and buyback package to
buyers of its polluting diesel-powered vehicles, this time involving owners of
VW, Audi and Porsche cars and SUVs with six-cylinder engines.

Under the agreement announced Tuesday, the automaker will buy back another
20,000 polluting diesel vehicles with 3-liter, six-cylinder diesel engines in
the U.S., fix about 63,000 vehicles and pay $225 million in environmental
remediation.

The company agreed to the sweeping settlement with the U.S. government and
California regulators, having already agreed this fall to a nearly $15 billion
deal pertaining to almost half a million 2-liter diesel cars.

The latest accord covers bigger vehicles, including Audi and Porsche crossovers,
that like their smaller cousins were fitted with software to cheat U.S.
standards on emissions.

The settlement with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, California Air
Resources Board and Justice Department is expected to cost VW about $1 billion,
said Cynthia Giles, EPA's assistant administrator for enforcement and compliance
assurance.

But that figure does not include what U.S. District Judge Charles Breyer said is
likely to be additional "substantial compensation" for consumers. Breyer is set
to receive updates on that aspect in a hearing Thursday.

"When an automaker does business in the United States, it has a duty to meet the
laws of the United States," John Cruden, assistant attorney general, told
reporters.

It also has a "duty to play fairly with its competitors and to deal honestly
with its customers."

In the deal revealed Tuesday, owners of 20,000 of the oldest crossovers in the
3-liter group -- diesel versions of the 2009-12 Volkswagen Touareg and 2009-12
Audi Q7 -- will qualify for a buyback at retail value because they cannot be
feasibly retrofitted into compliance.

Amounts were not available, but the 2-liter buybacks ranged from $12,500 to
$44,000, adjusted for mileage, and the 3-liter crossovers may be worth more.
Owners of 2-liter models who qualify for and receive a free repair will also
receive $5,100 to $9,852 in payouts.

Owners of the newest 63,000 vehicles in the group will qualify for free repairs
to bring the vehicles back into compliance with U.S. clean-air standards.

Those models are the diesel versions of the 2013-16 Volkswagen Touareg, 2013-15
Audi Q7, 2013-16 Porsche Cayenne and 2014-16 Audi A6 quattro, A7 quattro, A8,
A8L and Q5.

If VW can't come up with an EPA-authorized repair for the second group, it will
be required to offer a buyback to those customers, as well.

The deal is "another important step forward in our efforts to make things right
for our customers," VW said in a statement. "We are committed to earning back
the trust of all our stakeholders and thank our customers and dealers for their
patience as the process moves forward."

The settlement includes an additional payment of $25 million to California to
promote environmentally friendly cars and an agreement by VW to introduce
several electric models in the state.

"This settlement highlights the fact that cheating to get a car certified has
consequences for air quality and the public's health -- and that cheaters will
be caught and held accountable," California Air Resources Board executive
officer Richard Corey said in a statement.

"The mitigation in this settlement will now help California address its serious
air quality and climate challenges."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             322 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

'There are too many illegal guns'

BYLINE: Eddie Johnson

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 355 words


Like too many cities across the country, the violence some communities in
Chicago are contending with is unacceptable. Just two years ago, crime in
Chicago had been reduced to the lowest levels in decades. Today, that trend has
been reversed. To meet this rising tide of violence, the Chicago Police
Department is joining forces with partners across the city in a coordinated,
concerted effort to stop the violence. But we can't do it alone. No one can.

Police officers are the backbone of any public safety strategy, but we all have
a role to play, and that's why Mayor Rahm Emanuel outlined a comprehensive
strategy to improve the safety of our city. Under that plan, we will grow the
police department by nearly 1,000 new officers, all of whom will partner with
residents. Community policing must be the cornerstone of our strategy to reduce
crime, and so we are also implementing needed reforms to rebuild the bonds of
trust with the residents of Chicago, especially in communities of color.

The mayor is driving economic opportunities in our most struggling
neighborhoods. He is also investing $36 million over the next three years to
make mentoring universal for young men in our 20 most violent neighborhoods
because too many young men suffer from a lack of positive role models in their
lives.

But at the end of the day, our violence problem is an illegal gun problem. The
biggest difference between Chicago, New York and Los Angeles are the gun laws of
our states and the areas immediately surrounding our cities.

There are too many illegal guns on the south and west sides, and part of any
solution to Chicago's crime problem must be to strengthen penalties for the
repeat violent offenders carrying those guns. We are working with our allies in
the state legislature to accomplish that.

Gun violence is an issue President Obama has elevated on the national stage, and
it is something we are confronting head-on here in Chicago. There is no single
solution to the complex challenge of gun violence. Chicago's strategy is
holistic, comprehensive and collaborative.

Eddie Johnson is superintendent of the Chicago Police Department.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             323 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Study: Largest U.S. banks still charge high overdraft fees

BYLINE: Kevin McCoy, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 350 words


Most major U.S. banks continue to charge high fees when customers overdraft
their accounts, according to a new report issued Tuesday.

More than two out of five banks also rearrange their processing of account
holders' transactions with a procedure that maximizes overdraft fees, said the
report by The Pew Charitable Trusts, an independent, non-profit organization.

A separate review of overdraft programs at a selection of smaller U.S. banks
found many practices are largely comparable to those of larger banks, the report
also concluded.

Some of the findings echo previous studies of the issue, including a 2008
analysis by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and a Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau study in 2013.

The new results show a need for banks to institute new policies that prevent
their widely-offered "courtesy" overdraft programs "from being costly and
unsustainable forms of short-term credit for many financially vulnerable
consumers, said Nick Bourke, director of Pew's consumer finance project.

"Regulators should set reasonable limits on overdraft fees and help banks create
new small-credit options for those who want them," added Bourke.

The Pew findings stem from a review of disclosures from the 50 largest banks by
domestic deposit volume and revenue data they reported to the Federal Deposition
Insurance Corp. Key findings include:

The banks' collective revenue from service charges on banks' deposit accounts,
including overdraft and insufficient fund fees, has more than doubled during the
past three decades. Interest income paid to account holders, meanwhile, has
declined.

Most of the largest banks continue to charge at least $35 for each overdraft.

More than 40% of the biggest banks process transactions from largest to smaller
by dollar value. That can reduce the account balance more quickly and generate
more overdrafts than other protocols.

Pew's review of financial disclosures from 45 smaller banks, those with up to $1
billion in deposits and generally no more than 30 branches, found similar
results. The median fee charged by those banks is $32, the report said.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo 2009 photo by Lisa Poole, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             324 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

TV documentary series explores secret world of the Ku Klux Klan;
A&E Network offers an "unprecedented look" at hate group

BYLINE: Maria Puente, @usatmpuente, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 916 words


The Ku Klux Klan is on the march again, set to star on TV screens soon.

Having scored ratings success with a critical documentary series on the Church
of Scientology, the A&E Network turns attention to a new series on the KKK as
"America's most infamous hate group."

The network announced Monday the first of eight hour-long episodes of a
"compelling" documentary, Generation KKK, will begin airing Jan. 10 (10 p.m. ET)

Why now? Because hate groups are trending.

The series signals a surge of interest in spotlighting extremists on TV, and
there are plenty to choose from in  the U.S. these days. From neo-Nazi groups to
the Internet-era of "alt-right" white-nationalist organizations, extremists in
general were given the oxygen of attention by the campaigns of Hillary Clinton,
who denounced the alt-right and lost, and Donald Trump, who embraced some
alt-right voices  and won. (While Trump eventually rejected support from Klan
leader David Duke, he regularly retweeted white supremacists throughout his
campaign.)

But the Klan is not only infamous, it's one of the nation's  oldest hate groups,
spreading its doctrine of bigotry and violence against blacks, Jews and other
minorities for more than a century. A&E, which has been working on the series
for more than 18 months, touts it as an exposé of the Klan's alleged new
recruitment efforts targeting families and "indoctrinating children."

Klan membership is on the rise, the network asserts, citing statistics from the
Southern Poverty Law Center showing the number of independent Klan chapters grew
from 72 to 190 between 2014 and 2015. The trend reflects  the country's sharp
divisions, made sharper following an often toxic presidential election in which
hate groups like the Klan openly played a role for the first time in decades.

A&E's partner in the series, the Anti-Defamation League, calls it "a laudable
effort to understand and expose the Ku Klux Klan from the inside out," said
league CEO Jonathan Greenblatt in a statement. "Generation KKK explores crucial
questions, such as why people get lured into joining racist movements in the
first place, and how difficult it can be for them to find a pathway out."

The series is not the only recent effort by the media to focus on the Klan and
white nationalist groups, says Mark Potok, senior fellow at the Southern Poverty
Law Center.

"There's a plethora, a remarkable number of documentaries in production and
efforts in various TV venues to portray the extreme right. I've been here nearly
20 years and I've never seen such a rash of these things," Potok says.

He says he can't betray confidences about forthcoming projects. But The
Hollywood Reporter also says there are documentaries, movies, online TV  and
radio shows in the works, including a movie about one of the alt-right stars to
emerge in recent months, Milo Yiannopoulos of alt-right platform Breitbart.com,
who told THR he's filming his appearances for a documentary.

A&E may be looking to replicate the  ratings of its Scientology series:  Last
month, Leah Remini: Scientology and the Aftermath, a documentary series hosted
by the actress who's become the leading ex-Scientologist dedicated to exposing
the religion as a fraud, premiered to 2.1 million viewers, making it the
network's No. 1 new  launch in more than two years.

The Klan series follows four  families who each have a family member trying to
escape Klan clutches, A&E says. Featured will be an Imperial Wizard grooming his
teenage daughter to take his place; an Iraq war veteran and  member determined
to raise his 4-year-old son in the Klan; a young man who sees his Klan leader as
the father he never had; and a fifth-generation Klan family struggling to keep
up the legacy.

"This series gives viewers an unprecedented look at what it is like to be born
into hate," said Rob Sharenow, general manager of A&E and Lifetime. "Our
producers gained access to Klan families, allowing for full immersion into this
secret world and its impact on the next generation. Generation KKK brings
viewers inside the places where hatred and prejudice are born and bred, and
carried forward or not."

Potok says news organizations and entertainment networks are "trying to grab on
to the Trump phenomenon and ride it," pointing to the "metastasizing" volume of
calls to the SPLC since before the election from the media aiming to focus more
attention on the radical right in the U.S.  today.

"Everyone is doing a documentary on the alt-right or the Klan or neo-Nazis,"
Potok says. In general, he says, that's a good thing, as long as the coverage is
accurate and full, and doesn't romanticize or normalize bigotry. The idea is
such coverage should inoculate the audience from embracing and spreading hate,
he says.

"On the one hand, it is wise to humanize these people; they're not aliens from
outer space, they're human beings who have gone wildly off the tracks," Potok
says. "On the other hand, there's a real danger of making these people look
(merely) like regular folks with slightly odd opinions."

The series will also follow a network of anti-hate and peace activists working
to convince members to leave the Klan.

"Generation KKK is a documentary series that exposes the ugly truth about how
the hate group attempts to indoctrinate children," Sharenow said in a statement
to USA TODAY. "The series focuses on a team of activists working to prevent the
next generation from continuing the cycle of hate. The documentary series takes
a clear stance against hatred of any kind."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo A&E

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             325 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

What Trump could learn from Nixon;
The 37th president was a realist on Russia, China and the limits of war

BYLINE: Barry M. Blechman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 658 words


Democrats beyond a certain age, reeling from the recent president election,
might recall the enmity and contempt with which they viewed another polarizing
president, Richard Nixon. And perhaps they take some solace from the fact that
after they suffered under his rule for more than five years, Nixon was driven
from office -- forced to resign in 1974 because of his wanton disregard for
basic principles of America's democracy.

Now they have another reason to be angry at him: Surprisingly, Nixon was an
early booster of Donald Trump's career in politics. Back in 1987, in a
personally addressed and signed note, the disgraced former president lauded a
Trump TV performance and cited his wife's belief that whenever Trump decided to
run for office, he'd win.

Did this note put the idea that he could be president into Trump's head?
Probably not -- but it certainly must have reinforced whatever notions might
already have been brewing there. And Trump prizes the letter. He recently told
friends he plans to hang it in the Oval Office.

Trump would be wise to eschew Nixon's flagrant disregard for the Constitution,
and to steer away from the racism evident on the Nixon tapes and the racial
elements of Nixon's "Southern strategy." Nonetheless, he could draw some
positive lessons from this Republican president's foreign policy choices.

Though Nixon built his career through fervent anti-communism, he was a realist
when it came to foreign affairs. Recognizing that communist China was here to
stay, and a potential strategic ally in the Cold War with the Soviet Union,
Nixon's decision to open relations with "Red China" was a masterstroke.

unwinnable wars

During Trump's campaign, he spoke harshly, to put it politely, about China. But
China isn't going away; it will only get stronger over the years. Far better to
work out our economic and political differences with Chinese leaders than to
drive them back into close alliance with Russia.

Nixon also was realistic about the limits of U.S. military power. He tried
desperately to win the Vietnam War or negotiate a favorable peace during his
early years in office. When it became clear that the war was unwinnable on the
battlefield and at the negotiating table in Paris, however, he drew down U.S.
troops and negotiated a peace that at best allowed a "decent interval" before
the U.S. ally's defeat became inevitable.

Trump has generally been cautious about U.S. involvement in the many conflicts
in the Middle East: That's not the case with many of the individuals who appear
slated for high positions in his administration. The new president would be wise
to follow his own instincts and avoid new or deeper involvements in the region.
Most important, he should not allow his aides to draw the U.S. into a war with
Iran.

The existential threat of nuclear war provides another example of Nixon's
realism. Even while confronting the Soviet Union, he was willing to talk with
Soviet leaders about ways to reduce nuclear dangers. This led not only to
understandings between the two nations' armed forces about protocols to avoid
inadvertent conflict, but also to the first U.S.-Russia arms control agreements.
He negotiated Strategic Arms Limitation Talks I, which for the first time placed
numerical limits on the two countries' long-range nuclear forces, as well as the
Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty, which put tight limits on both countries' missile
defenses.

evil genie

Trump has stated that he believes he can "deal" with Russian President Vladimir
Putin. One good place to start would be with nuclear issues, as that evil genie
seems to have been creeping out of its bottle in recent years.

Trump might have drawn political inspiration from the late Richard Nixon. He
should definitely draw on the 37th president's good instincts in foreign policy.
His place in history, to say nothing of the United States, would be far better
for it.

Barry M. Blechman is co-founder of the non-partisan Stimson Center.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             326 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Women of 'Hidden Figures' stand together as one;
Their story of the race to space has a lofty lesson: 'When we stick together, we
can change the world'

BYLINE: Brian Truitt, @briantruitt, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1408 words


The three talented mathematicians at the heart of the historical drama Hidden
Figures helped take America into space. Their carpool cruise home in a 1957
Chevrolet after work, however, was their time to vent about not going anywhere
in their jobs.

Filming a scene for the movie (in theaters Christmas Day in 14 cities, including
New York, Los Angeles, Atlanta, Chicago and Washington; expands nationwide Jan.
6) in an old ice cream warehouse on a warm April day, Taraji P. Henson is seated
in the back as Katherine G. Johnson, the woman whose calculations would
ultimately help John Glenn orbit Earth. Yet Katherine's first day working with
NASA scientists in 1961 hasn't gone so well.

Her colleagues are similarly irked: Octavia Spencer's  Dorothy Vaughan is angry
that she leads the "colored computers" -- a group of black women crunching
numbers every day -- but doesn't get  a supervisor's pay, and Janelle Monáe's
Mary Jackson isn't having any luck in her dream of becoming an engineer.

"Truth be told, Dorothy, I don't even know if I can keep up in that room,"
Henson says, giving Katherine's tone a worrisome edge. "I'll be back with the
computers within the week or out of a job entirely."

"Oh, please," Spencer responds. "You're better with the numbers than anyone in
that room, Katherine, and you know it. Just make that pencil move as fast as
your mind does, you'll be fine."

That mind would be key to America staying competitive with the Russians in the
1960s space race, though Hidden Figures (based on the Margot Lee Shetterly book)
explores the obstacles facing the country as well as the three main characters
-- not only racial but also gender inequality, involving white men in a
workplace who didn't know what to make of a black woman being the smartest
person in the room. The movie pairs a strong female-empowerment message with
heady themes and feel-good vibes.

"It just says that when we stick together, we can change the world," says Monáe,
a Grammy-winning musician whose first Hollywood audition was for Hidden Figures.
"It wasn't just because of Katherine or Mary or Dorothy, it was because they all
stuck together. They leaned on each other's shoulders, they cried, they laughed,
they loved, they encouraged each other.

"It's because (Katherine) had her sisters there to encourage her that history
was made."

The work has proven fruitful. Hidden Figures was nominated for three Critics'
Choice Awards -- including best picture and best supporting actress for Monáe --
and Spencer is up for supporting actress at both the Golden Globes and Screen
Actors Guild ceremonies. The movie also snagged a SAG nomination for best cast.

With its roots in the civil rights movement, Hidden Figures "reminds us how far
we've come and respecting each other no matter what we look like, the color of
our skin or where we come from," says Erik Davis, managing editor for
Fandango.com and Movies.com. He adds that the film could be a strong Oscar
contender.

As the movie starts out, things aren't peachy keen for the core trio. A West
Virginia native who graduated high school at 14 and college by 18, Katherine is
assigned to a group at the Langley Research Center in Hampton, Va. The outfit is
led by NASA head honcho Al Harrison (Kevin Costner), who wants Katherine to look
"beyond the math" to help figure out how to get Glenn (Glen Powell) to space and
back safely. But she's looked down upon by other men, and she has to run to the
other side of the campus just to use the colored restrooms.

"They're engineers and they're scientists, but they allowed some of that
(prejudice) to creep over, and the net effect was the cream wasn't necessarily
rising to the top," Costner says. "Human nature has pettiness and insecurity in
it, and that crosses all racial boundaries."

Meanwhile, Mary is a bright young woman who specializes in aircraft data and
wind-tunnel experiments and wants to become the first female engineer at NASA of
any race. And Dorothy is stonewalled  by her boss (Kirsten Dunst) when it comes
to getting properly paid for the work she does, all while NASA is installing a
huge IBM computer that threatens to make Dorothy and her charges obsolete.

The women are there for one another on the job and in their personal lives, and
it mirrors the chemistry the trio of actresses found with each other. "When we
come together, you see all our superpowers working seamlessly together," Monáe
says. "And we have a real sisterhood."

In the car scene, Mary -- who can be saucy when speaking her mind -- gets a
little too comfortable for her co-worker, and Dorothy takes a moment from
driving to smack her passenger's legs. "Have some respect. Get your damn feet
off my dashboard! This isn't your living room."

After the camera stops, the actresses keep going, riffing on their dialogue and
having fun with their characters.

"How do I make them give me more money?" Spencer says. Henson allows a moment of
silence before responding, "Set it off!" Everyone  cackles with delight.

Spencer figures Monáe is like "if Lena Horne and Diahann Carroll had a
daughter," and she brings a definite spark to Mary, "a mathematician on fire."
And for Dorothy, Spencer wanted to give her  a motherly approach with her
friends and children and an authoritative side at work. "She's a no-guff lady,"
Spencer says. "She's not going to come in and give you warm hugs and cookies."

The friendship between the real women got them through the issues of the day,
and co-writer and director Theodore Melfi believes most of the themes in Hidden
Figures are still a part of our world and have even been magnified decades
later. Equal pay and equal rights for women are ongoing fights, he says, and
black Americans continue to struggle for justice in the workplace and beyond.

"We seem to be in another Cold War with Russia all of a sudden, which is
remarkable to me how that happened, and we're in a Cold War with ISIS and in a
constant state of battling forces we can't understand or predict," the director
says. "This movie for me is all about that."

Making this kind of film is why Powell got in the business, he says. "We're in
this time of division right now where it doesn't really feel like the United
States of America. ...  And this is a movie about people coming together to
accomplish something that seemed impossible and doing it in the name of freedom
and togetherness.

"The basic premise of math is about efficiency," Powell adds. "And when you've
got racism, sexism and bigotry, that's just standing in the way of efficiency in
our own progress. This is a movie that just says: 'Hey, why are we making this
harder than it has to be? We can be united and wonderful and love each other.'"

Powell sees a lot of chatter about women's equality and "the glass ceiling," yet
what Hidden Figures does well is having men supporting women in all facets.
Costner's character is a champion for Katherine, and so is Powell's astronaut
Glenn. Powell says one scene comes straight from the real Johnson's memories:
Glenn (who died Dec. 8 at age 95) broke from the pack, much to the chagrin of
some,  during training in Langley in 1961 to  chat with Katherine and her
colleagues.

In a scene filmed at an Atlanta middle school, where the halls and rooms were
turned into the inner workings of a 1960s NASA complex,  Glenn gets a call from
Al right before the 1962 launch of Friendship 7 at Cape Canaveral. The landing
coordinates spit out by the high-tech IBM seem off, which makes Glenn feel a
little iffy about the mission that will become his historic three orbits.

"When I fly, I fly the machine, and right now it seems like this machine is
flying me," Glenn says. "I mean, this is just coming from the guy riding the top
of a rocket." He then thinks of Katherine: "Let's get the girl to check the
numbers. If she says they're good, then I'm ready to go."

Powell wants Hidden Figures to  "encourage the conversation for men to stand up
for women and the amazing things we can do as a collective species when we work
together."

For Costner, our history involving minorities and women is a complex one, and
the story of Hidden Figures mirrors America's as a whole.

"The contributions are heavy and the injustices are great and the victories are
thrilling," the actor says. "This country tries really hard -- it's trying right
now in its own way, and it's being tested. But people are trying, and we should
tell our own story, and we shouldn't be afraid of where the chips fall."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Photos by Hopper Stone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             327 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Prisma app striving to be its own social network;
Russian app wins accolades by turning photos into artwork

BYLINE: Graham, @jeffersongraham, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 525 words


The young Russians who created the Prisma app had an amazing 2016: Both Google
and Apple called their tool to turn photos into artwork the app of the year.
With 85million downloads in less than six months, and the top nod from the
digital giants, how do you follow that up?

By getting more people to use their app, consistently.

Prisma was set to release an update Tuesday that brings in community features.
Folks can now share their works with other Prisma members on the  free app,
rather than confining the sharing to  social networks like Instagram and
Facebook.

"It will make our users come back to the app more often," says co-founder Aram
Airapetyan, 22, who is known online in his LinkedIn and Facebook profiles as
Aram Hardy.

Before, "we had no feed," he adds. "You had to make it and share to Instagram or
Facebook."

With Prisma, you take a photo or video with your Apple or Android smartphone,
and then use the app to paint over in the style of the masters, with one of
20-plus filters that range from the looks of a graphic novel to black and white
line drawings and watercolor effects. With the update, the finished work goes
directly into the Prisma feed, and "the more likes the post gets, the further
the post gets, it could cover the whole world," says Airapetyan, in a Facebook
Messenger chat with USA TODAY from his Moscow apartment.

The new update also opens up finished photos to a larger aspect ratio.
Previously photos were only as square, like the original Instagram images.

The last update for Prisma didn't go as well as Airapetyan had wanted. It
brought the ability to put on artistic filters in live videos on Facebook, but
Facebook immediately shut it down.

"They don't let third-party apps stream to Facebook," says Airapetyan. "We
respect their policy."

He vows to find another platform for the live feed.

In giving the award to Prisma, Apple called the app and its use of artificial
intelligence "too cool for words."

There have been other apps that turned your photo into artwork, like Pikazo and
Malevich, but "they were too slow," says Airapetyan.

"We managed to speed it up -- we could repaint a picture in less than a second.
That was the breakthrough." (Videos take considerably longer -- up to as much as
a minute.)

Neural networks are used to extract the information from the photo, and create a
new image, in the style of the masters.

Meanwhile, from Russia, the recent university graduate says he works through the
evening (we did our interview at 3a.m. Moscow time) so that he can be on the
same time zone as the United States, which is a 11-hour time difference with
California.

Most picks for app of the year (like last year's Periscope, or Duolingo in 2014)
are based in the United States.

So this is a big win for the Russian tech community, which hasn't exactly been
garnering positive headlines of late.

Instead, they usually concern hackers thought to have meddled with the U.S.
presidential campaign on behalf of the Russian government.

What does Airapetyan want us to know about the Russian tech scene?

"We're just normal, kind people, just trying to bring some cool features to the
tech industry worldwide," he says.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Aram Airapetyan

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             328 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Probe opened on Chrysler vehicles that may roll away

BYLINE: Nathan Bomey, @NathanBomey, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 268 words


U.S. auto-safety regulators have launched a probe into a potential Fiat Chrysler
defect after receiving reports of rollaway vehicles bearing a strong resemblance
to the flaw that allegedly killed actor Anton Yelchin in June.

The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration is now investigating the
automaker's 2013-16 Ram 1500 pickup truck and 2014-16 Dodge Durango SUV over
transmissions that are shifted electronically using a rotary control on the
center console.

The probe centers on reports of nine injuries and 25 crashes in which the
vehicles allegedly rolled away after drivers thought they had shifted into park.

NHTSA's Office of Defects Investigation launched the inquiry after 43 vehicle
owners complained about rollaways. The investigation came to light Tuesday in a
document posted to NHTSA's website.

Fiat Chrysler is "cooperating fully with NHTSA's investigation, the scope of
which is limited," spokesman Eric Mayne said in an email. He said it remains
"prudent practice" for "all drivers to use their vehicles' parking brakes,"
which is also NHTSA's recommendation.

NHTSA noted that none of the people who complained about their vehicles rolling
away had activated the parking brake.

Fiat Chrysler recalled 1.1 million vehicles in April to force vehicles into park
when the driver opens the door. That recall included Yelchin's 2015 Jeep Grand
Cherokee, as well as the 2014 Grand Cherokee and the 2012-14 Dodge Charger and
Chrysler 300.

Yelchin was found dead, pinned between the back of his car and his front gate as
he left his home in Studio City, Calif., according to the Los Angeles Police.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             329 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Smart financial resolutions for;
Five smart ways to achieve, sustain success in new year

BYLINE: , ,

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 689 words


Each and every December for the past umpteen years you've resolved to pay down
debt, spend less and save more. And, if you're like most people, have broken
most, if not all, of those promises by February. Despair no more. Behavioral
experts say there are ways - tricks of the trade or mind, if you will - to make
sure you set and achieve your 2017 financial goals.

1. Start small

"Start with simple and small financial goals as a way to build confidence and
momentum in order to achieve more difficult and long-term objectives," says
Victor Ricciardi, a finance professor at Goucher College  and co-editor of
Investor Behavior: The Psychology of Financial Planning and Investing.

Starting small is smart, says Michael Liersch, head of behavioral finance and
goals-based consulting for Merrill Lynch Wealth Management.

"Taking small, incremental steps toward goals can often yield bigger results
than ever anticipated," he says. It is unlikely that change will "stick" if
someone plans large, dramatic actions, he adds. One suggestion: Plan a single
financial behavior to start, he says. For instance, it could be setting
quarterly meetings to talk about money decisions with family or a financial
professional.

2. Visualize clear objectives.

Research shows that writing down goals and thinking of them daily helps to spur
success, says Ricciardi. With goals in mind -- be it a dream vacation or more
frequent golfing -- "we are more likely to spend less today and save for
tomorrow," he says.

Envision specific details, as well as consider why that goal is important to
you, says Benjamin Cummings, an associate professor of behavioral finance at The
American College of Financial Services. It's fine to "visualize" those goals in
any way that feels comfortable, he says. "Some people are visual, some are
auditory, and some are kinesthetic," he says. "For visual people, drawing a mind
map can be an engaging way for a couple -- or a financial adviser -- to help
visualize what it will be like. For auditory people, they may just want to talk
about it. For kinesthetic folks, they might want to use modeling clay to sculpt
what sorts of things they might do in retirement."

3. Think of the future you.

Stretch your short- and long-term goal setting a little longer. If you generally
plan a month out, think two. If you have a five-year plan, think about seven or
10 years, advises Sarah Newcomb, a behavioral economist with Morningstar and
author of Loaded: Money, Psychology, and How to Get Ahead without Leaving Your
Values Behind.

Thinking far into the future is associated with more financial joy, higher
savings balances, better cash management habits and less financial anxiety,
according Newcomb's research.

4. Set reminders.

When you have decided on a few goals, think of creative ways to remember those
objectives, as well as to monitor progress, says Ricciardi. "For example, place
a reminder on your electronic calendar for one day of the month to always pay
your bills and evaluate your retirement account on the 25th day of each month,"
he says.

5. WOOP it up.

WOOP -- an acronym for wish, outcome, obstacle and plan -- is a process
developed by Gabrielle Oettingen, a psychology professor at New York University.

Also known as "mental contrasting with implementation intentions," the WOOP
strategy helps people to set goals, as well as to identify and overcome
potential roadblocks. The steps:

1. Identify a specific, important wish that is challenging but can be fulfilled.

2. Determine the best outcome. Think about how you will feel after getting the
desired results.

3. Make note of obstacles. Determine what might hold you back from fulfilling
your wish. It could be an emotion, a bad habit or an irrational belief.

4. Create a plan. It can be highly beneficial to identify one effective action
you can take or one effective thought you can think to overcome your obstacle.
Use if-then thinking, such as: if this happens, then I will do this.

Robert Powell is editor of Retirement Weekly, contributes regularly to USA
TODAY, The Wall Street Journal and MarketWatch. Got questions about money? Email
Bob at rpowell@allthingsretirement.com

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Getty Images/iStockphoto

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             330 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Can Trump's Wall Street honeymoon last?;
Don't count on it, say several stock market strategists

BYLINE: Adam Shell, @adamshell, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 656 words


Since Election Day, Donald Trump and Wall Street have enjoyed a honeymoon-like
romance, with U.S. stocks surging in celebration of the president-elect's
business-friendly agenda.

The question is whether the money-making dalliance will last through
Inauguration Day and beyond.

The 6.1% gain for the Standard & Poor's 500 stock since Election Day puts the
"Trump bump" on track for the fifth-best advance between Election Day and
Inauguration Day since the 1928 presidential election, according to data from
money management firm Gluskin Sheff.

In the past 22 presidential elections, stocks have moved higher 65% of the time
from the day voters go to the polls to the new president taking power. Herbert
Hoover enjoyed a best-ever post-election jump of 13.3% in 1928.

The worst performances were a 19.9% plunge after President Obama's 2008 election
at the height of the financial crisis and a 19.3% drop under Franklin D.
Roosevelt in 1932 during the Great Depression.

The case for the "Trump rally" challenging the Hoover advance or gains enjoyed
by Dwight Eisenhower in 1952 (+6.3%), John F. Kennedy in 1960 (+8.8%) and Bill
Clinton in 1996 (+8.8%) is a bet that the ebullience surrounding Trump's plans
to jump-start economic growth extends beyond Inauguration Day.

The Trump-inspired rally has also catapulted the Dow Jones industrial average
within striking distance of 20,000 for the first time in its 120-year history.
On Tuesday, the Dow, which has surged more than 1,600 points since Election Day,
rose as high as 19,987.63 -- or less than 13 points from the major milestone --
creating a day of drama and Dow-watching. The Dow closed at 19,974.62.

Indeed, any downshifting of expectations isn't expected to occur until after
Jan. 20 when Trump takes the oath of office. The reason: Details of what Trump
may or may not get done will not be available until after he moves into the
White House.

"Investors are now fixated on changes in tax policies, regulatory policies and
government entities that are all pro-business, and I don't see that changing
from now until Inauguration Day, so the trend is your friend," says Nick Sargen,
senior investment adviser at Fort Washington Investment Advisors.

The risk is if there's any whiff of Trump's market-friendly initiatives running
into roadblocks on Capitol Hill, says Quincy Krosby, market strategist at
Prudential Financial.

"A meaningful (fall in stock prices) will come if there's any sense that Trump's
pro-growth program is at risk or not going to get enacted quickly," Krosby says.
"All honeymoons come to an end when reality kicks in."

Scott Wren, senior global equity strategist at Wells Fargo Investment Institute,
is not looking for "meaningful pullbacks" in stocks between now and Jan 20.

If any market dips do occur, buyers will swoop in and continue to support the
market, he predicts. After Trump takes office, the market's emphasis will shift
from "hope" of change to a sharper focus on the odds of real legislation getting
done.

"Typically, the stock market only trades off the election result for a few
weeks," Wren explains.

"Then, quickly, the market gets back to trading off what the (business outlook)
looks like over the next six to twelve months. Investors only pay attention to
what 'might' or 'could' happen two or four years down the road for a brief
period of time."

The problem is that history says Trump won't be able to change things overnight.

"New presidents," Wren says, "have only a slim chance of changing the trajectory
of the economy over their first 12 months in office."

Another market trait that could keep the Trump Bump alive is the fact that,
despite the market being ahead of itself, there's a belief among money managers
that not being invested in stocks will lead to poor performance against their
peers, adds Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist at Janney. "Therefore,
any stock market pullback is likely to be shallow and brief," Luschini predicts.


LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo President-Elect Donald Trump by JIM WATSON, AFP/Getty Images
heart by getty images/istockphoto

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             331 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Online sales rise as temps take dive;
Last full shopping weekend a 'perfect storm' for retailers

BYLINE: Charisse Jones, @charissejones, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 451 words


As temperatures plummeted, retailers' online traffic soared this past weekend as
they entered the home stretch of the holiday shopping season.

The last full weekend before Christmas and the start of Hanukkah proved to be a
big winner for online shopping, with online traffic up 11% on Saturday and 16%
on Sunday, according to Verizon, which tracked traffic on home-based Internet
connections to the 25 largest U.S. online retailers.

Jessica Williams, 31, a psychologist living in South San Francisco, was one of
those shoppers who preferred browsing online to visiting the mall.

"I love the convenience of online shopping and not having to deal with lines,
parking and limited items," she said. "I feel that I got better deals online
than going inside the stores."

And given the wintry blast that gripped much of the nation, buyers were loading
up on seasonal clothing, says Planalytics, a firm that measures the impact of
weather on consumer behavior.

It forecasts that shoppers will spend at least $350million more than last year
on cold weather gear during December.

"This weekend was the perfect storm,'' says Michele Dupré, Verizon Enterprise
Solutions' group vice president for retail, distribution and hospitality.

"Weather plays a factor," she said, and retailers "certainly played up the fact
it was the last weekend (before the holidays) and were touting that shipping
deadlines were quickly approaching."

Retailers made it clear that the cutoff to get  gifts delivered on time was just
around the corner. And the Arctic freeze that engulfed the Northeast and Midwest
also  raised the  likelihood that caps, gloves and jackets had become a hot gift
item.

Still, many sought refuge in shopping centers and malls.

"It was not bad enough to keep people away," said Planalytics President Scott
Bernhardt.

This past weekend may be the capstone to a holiday season that some retail
watchers now predict could exceed initial expectations, due in part to
record-breaking online sales and a dramatic shift by consumers to shopping on
smartphones and tablets.

The National Retail Federation, relying on U.S. Census data, says that retail
sales increased 5% last month compared to November 2015.

Meanwhile, online sales jumped 15.3% in November vs. last year. Those statistics
did not count gas stations, cars or restaurants.

The picture at brick-and mortar locations has been a bit less rosy. In-store
sales dipped 4.2%, while traffic dropped 4.4% over Thanksgiving weekend, the
traditional kickoff to the holiday shopping season, according to the analytics
firm RetailNext.

The NRF reported that 3.7% fewer consumers shopped at an actual store over that
holiday weekend, vs. a 4.2% increase in those who shopped online.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Getty Images/iStockphoto

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             332 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

U.S. cranks up sanctions on Russia over Crimea;
Trump team on policy: 'Wait and see'

BYLINE: Gregory Korte, @gregorykorte, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 314 words


The United States updated and tightened its sanctions against Russia on Tuesday
as part of a three-year effort to punish it for its annexation of Crimea in
2014.

The sanctions -- targeting seven individuals, eight companies and 26
subsidiaries -- were authorized by two executive orders signed by President
Obama in 2014. They come a month before President-elect Donald Trump will bring
a more Russia-friendly foreign policy to the White House.

Asked last week whether sanctions against Russia would continue in the Trump
administration, Trump chief of staff Reince Priebus told MSNBC to "just wait and
see."

The White House said the sanctions were not related to Obama's threat in a radio
interview to retaliate against Russia for malicious cyberactivity that he said
was designed to interfere in the presidential election. Obama has declined to be
specific about his response, saying it will come "at a time and date of our own
choosing."

"Today's action is in response to Russia's unlawful occupation of Crimea and
continued aggression in Ukraine," said John E. Smith, the acting director of the
Office of Foreign Asset Control, in a statement. "These targeted sanctions aim
to maintain pressure on Russia by sustaining the costs of its occupation of
Crimea and disrupting the activities of those who support the violence and
instability in Ukraine."

The new sanctions target eight Russian companies. Four work on the Kerch Bridge
and other transportation projects linking Russia with the Crimean Peninsula,
which Russia annexed from Ukraine in 2014. Another four are accused of providing
shipping and fuel supplies to OJSC Sovfracht, a shipping company sanctioned for
operating in Crimea.

Added to the sanctions list were seven  men with links to sanctioned Russian
banks and defense industries. They're accused of helping those institutions to
evade previous Ukraine-related sanctions.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Adam Berry, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             333 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Russia sends team to investigate shooting in Turkey;
Attack on diplomat will fail to drive countries apart, Kremlin official says

BYLINE: John Bacon, @jmbacon, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 332 words


The gunman who fatally shot the Russian ambassador to Turkey was trying to
"drive a wedge" between the two countries and derail efforts toward a peaceful
solution of the civil war in Syria, the Kremlin said Tuesday.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov spoke to reporters in Moscow as 18 investigators
from Russia arrived in Turkey to investigate the death of Andrei Karlov, who was
shot multiple times by a Turkish police officer Monday while making a speech in
Ankara. Gunman Mevlüt Mert Altintas, 22, shouted slogans related to the Syrian
crisis before he was shot and killed by police.

Peskov said he expects the attack will bring Turkey and Russia closer.

"Most likely the murder was aiming to derail the efforts toward a peaceful
Syrian resolution," Peskov said. "However, it will not impede this process in
any way."

Peskov said the investigators will determine whether the attack was the work of
Altintas alone or a more complex conspiracy. Turkish authorities have detained
seven people, including six family members and a roommate of Altintas.

Altintas had taken a leave from his job with Ankara police days before the
attack and had a hotel reservation near the Contemporary Arts Center where
Karlov was slain. He refused to walk through a metal detector when he arrived at
the center but was granted entry after showing his police ID, the Hurriyet Daily
News reported.

Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said a street near the Russian Embassy
will be renamed for Karlov. Turkey and Russia will work together on the
investigation, he said.

"It is known how important the relations with Russia are for the region -- and
not only for two countries," Cavusoglu said.

Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Russian President Vladimir Putin
pledged their nations will continue cooperating in efforts to bring peace to
Syria and on other issues.

Putin said the attack shows why the fight against terrorism must be vigorous.

"The killers will feel it," Putin said.

Contributing: Jane Onyanga-Omara

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo VASILY MAXIMOV, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             334 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Weapons firms accused of misusing public funds;
Nuclear contractors improperly use federal dollars to get continued
government-backed work

BYLINE: Patrick M. Malone, Center for Public Integrity

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 816 words


A $67.5 million payment by a major nuclear weapons contractor to settle claims
that it illegally spent federal funds is the latest in a series of settlements
involving allegations that firms making bombs and cleaning up the resulting
debris are using federal dollars improperly to win government support for
continued weapons-related work.

Altogether, the three companies making these settlement payments since 2013 are
involved in the operation of six of the eight active sites in the Energy
Department's nuclear weapons program.

The latest case emerged from a civil lawsuit that accused two companies of both
performing substandard work at a nuclear weapons-related waste site. In
addition, the case said one of them had improperly spent government funds to
lobby for more. The companies declared on Nov.23 they would settle the
allegations by making the payment, mostly to the federal government, for  $125
million, an unusually  large sum for alleged Energy Department-related
malfeasance.

The settlement involves work by Bechtel National Inc. and its parent Bechtel
Corp., and URS Corp. and its subsidiary URS Energy and Construction Inc., which
together have been trying to clean up the Hanford Nuclear Reservation near
Richland, Wash.

The firms have denied doing anything improper. But the settlement is part of a
pattern.

Lockheed Martin Corp. operates one of three U.S. nuclear weapons laboratories.
Sandia agreed in August 2015 to pay $4.7million to settle a complaint by the
Justice Department that it used federal funds to lobby for a no-bid contract
extension, while Fluor Corp. paid $1.1 million in April 2013 to settle
accusations that it used federal funds to lobby government agencies.

Besides overseeing the Hanford cleanup, Bechtel and URS (now owned by AECOM)
help operate the other two U.S. nuclear weapons labs -- Los Alamos and Lawrence
Livermore. Altogether, the firms that have reached the settlements since 2013
are involved with operations at Los Alamos and Sandia in New Mexico, Livermore
in California, the Pantex Plant in Texas, the Savannah River Site in South
Carolina, and the Y-12 National Security Complex in Tennessee.

The recent settlement "demonstrates that the Justice Department will work to
ensure that public funds are used for the important purposes for which they are
intended," Benjamin Mizer, principal deputy assistant attorney general in the
Justice Department's civil division, said.

Money allocated by Congress for Hanford "is intended to fund the Department of
Energy's important mission to clean up the contaminated Hanford nuclear site,
and this mission is undermined if funds are wasted on goods or services that are
not nuclear compliant or to further lobbying activities," Mizer said.

Both Bechtel and AECOM  said the settlements were made to avoid litigation and
keep the waste plant project moving. "We have performed our work ... ethically
and professionally," Bechtel National Inc. spokesman Fred deSousa said.

AECOM complained that the Department of Justice joined the whistleblowers'
"unwarranted lawsuit against URS" based on events that preceded AECOM's
acquisition of the company.

The Justice Department's involvement originated in civil allegations of
mismanagement and wrongdoing in Hanford's Waste Treatment and Isolation Plant
project, commonly called "WTP." Under its contract with the Energy Department,
Bechtel is constructing machinery to convert nuclear wastes  into a substance
suitable for safe disposal.

Walt Tamosaitis, Donna Busche and Gary Brunson filed a lawsuit on Feb. 4, 2013,
accusing Bechtel and URS bosses of  misappropriation of funds over a dozen years
that together cost the government more than $1 billion.

The complaint triggered an investigation by the Energy Department's Office of
Inspector General. The Justice Department, in turn, used the complaint as the
basis for its own investigation of Bechtel and URS.

In the complaint, the whistleblowers said Bechtel project leaders launched a
coordinated lobbying campaign to collect new revenues for additional work on the
waste treatment plant project then billed the department for the lobbying, the
complaint said.

In January 2010, it said, a Bechtel manager sent the company's lobbyist a letter
to deliver to Congress to "determine their 'anxiety' level" about criticisms of
the company's performance.  The company later had $45 million added to its
contract.

Lobbying Congress for new work isn't against the law. But billing the government
for lobbying is. Court records state that Bechtel will pay $67.5 million and
AECOM will pay $57.5 million.

Charles Curtis, who oversaw the Energy Department's nuclear weapons work from
1994 to 1997,  expressed surprise that multiple contractors have been caught.
"These are for-profit enterprises. ... to use congressionally appropriated money
(is) a diversion of funds," Curtis said. "It's not only unethical ... it's
illegal."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo File photo by H. Darr Beiser, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             335 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Two Cowboys rookies earn Pro Bowl honors;
Raiders lead AFC with seven picks; Falcons have six

BYLINE: Lindsay H. Jones, @bylindsayhjones, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 361 words


The Dallas Cowboys rookie duo of quarterback Dak Prescott and running back
Ezekiel Elliott are MVP candidates, and now they are Pro Bowl selections.

Three Dallas offensive linemen -- center Travis Frederick, tackle Tyron Smith
and guard Zack Martin -- joined Prescott and Elliott on the NFC's Pro Bowl
roster announced Tuesday evening.

But it's the upstart Oakland Raiders who lead the NFL in Pro Bowl selections
with seven players, including quarterback Derek Carr and defensive end Khalil
Mack. It's the most Pro Bowl nods for the Raiders since the franchise had eight
players selected in 1991.

New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady joins Carr and the Pittsburgh
Steelers' Ben Roethlisberger as the top AFC quarterbacks, despite serving a
four-game suspension to start the season. Cleveland Browns left tackle Joe
Thomas made his 10th consecutive Pro Bowl team.

The Atlanta Falcons led the NFC with six selections, including quarterback Matt
Ryan, who joins Prescott and Aaron Rodgers of the Green Bay Packers as the NFC's
quarterbacks.

That leads to perhaps the biggest snub: Detroit Lions quarterback Matthew
Stafford, who has played his way into the MVP conversation.

The NFL announced the initial Pro Bowl rosters Tuesday as voted on by players,
coaches and fans.

The actual lineup will inevitably be markedly different, as players from the
Super Bowl teams are removed and others drop out because of injuries or personal
reasons.

Those who choose to play will participate in the inaugural Pro Bowl at Camping
World Stadium in Orlando after the league decided to move game away from
Honolulu. The NFL has also experimented previously with holding the Pro Bowl in
the Super Bowl city.

The league is trying to increase interest in the Pro Bowl with the addition of a
skills competition that will be televised on Thursday, Jan. 26, three days
before the game.

The new competitions include a game of dodgeball, a relay race, a precision
passing test and a best hands catching event with a quarterback-wide receiver
duo.

The game will return to a traditional AFC vs. NFC format. Recent games featured
rosters assembled with a playground-style pick 'em by NFL alumni coaches.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Matthew Emmons, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             336 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Americans split on Obama's legacy;
Depending on whom you ask, Obamacare is a triumph or debacle

BYLINE: Susan Page, @susanpage, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 398 words


Americans in a new USA TODAY/Suffolk University Poll rate the Affordable Care
Act as President Obama's greatest achievement in the White House. Also as his
biggest failure.

In yet another sign of how polarized the USA remains, the signature initiative
known as Obamacare draws the strongest praise from his supporters and the
sharpest rebuke from his critics as Americans begin to consider how history will
judge the nation's 44th president.

On one thing there is agreement across partisan lines: Six in 10 predict
incoming President Donald Trump will significantly dismantle Obama's legacy.
Three-fourths of Democrats call that a bad thing; three-fourths of Republicans
call it a good one.

"The impression he pushed was that he wanted to undo everything on Day One,
somehow, miraculously," says Megan Glidewell, 37, a college counselor from
Waconia, Minn., who voted for Hillary Clinton. She was among those called in the
poll. "I know that's not how it works, but it certainly felt like what he wanted
and what the people who voted for him wanted."

About a third of those surveyed say Obama ultimately will be seen as a "good"
president; 18% say he'll be a "great" one. One in four say history will rate him
as only "fair," and another one in four say he'll be seen as a "failed"
president.

The split by party is predictably stark: 86% of Democrats say Obama will be
judged to have been a good or great president; 83% of Republicans say he will be
seen as a fair or failed one.

"There was a lot of hope but a lot of under-delivery with him," says David
Ockrim, 30, who operates a Yankee Doodle Dandy food truck in New York City.

"A total failure," scoffs Stephen Spence, 69, of Mesa, Ariz. "On the economy, on
immigration, on helping people from other countries that are fighting ISIS."

"I think history would judge him well, but it's probably going to take a while,"
says Queen Jones, 73, a retired teacher's assistant from Mount Pleasant, N.C. "I
think he'll be judged well because of what he inherited when he came in and
where the economy is right now."

Obama is leaving office with healthy ratings. By 55%-40%, Americans have a
favorable opinion of him. That's much better than Trump's ratings -- 41%
favorable, 46% unfavorable -- although the president-elect's standing has been
improving. Just before Election Day, in late October, Trump was at 31%
favorable, 61% unfavorable in the poll.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             337 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

VA reverses course, releases health care data

BYLINE: Donovan Slack, @donovanslack, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 350 words


The Department of Veterans Affairs quietly released quality-of-care ratings for
its medical centers across the country, despite years of refusing to share them
with the public.

The move follows a USA TODAY investigation that revealed ratings for 146 VA
centers for the first time this month. VA Secretary Bob McDonald complained
that their publication across the USA TODAY Network caused "unwarranted
distress" to veterans and could dissuade them from getting care.

Last week, according to an internal memo obtained by USA TODAY, the agency
posted updated ratings on its website and included indicators of whether
hospitals were improving or declining. This allows members of the public to see
for the first time how their VA medical centers have fared over time.

The VA rates centers on a scale of one to five stars, five being the best and
one being the worst. It bases the ratings on dozens of factors, including death
and infection rates and wait times.

The newly posted ratings show VA hospitals in Albuquerque, Detroit and Los
Angeles received one star as of June 30, down from two stars on Dec. 31, 2015.

The VA medical center in Fayetteville, Ark., jumped from three stars to five,
and the VA in Orlando went from two stars to four.

Rep. Debbie Dingell, D-Mich., who wrote to the VA demanding the release of five
years' worth of ratings after USA TODAY's story, said, "It shouldn't take news
reports and public pressure for the VA to make these ratings available to the
public.

"These are important tools for veterans and the community to see quality of care
at the hospitals they depend on, and I hope this transparency continues," she
said.

Until USA TODAY's story, Dingell did not know the Detroit VA --  named after her
husband, former congressman John Dingell -- was among the worst-rated.

The VA did not immediately respond to a message seeking comment Tuesday. VA
officials have said the star ratings were an internal improvement tool and not
intended for the public because  hospitals with one star could be unfairly
tarnished.

The VA said  120 of the 146  centers showed improvement since 2015.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             338 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Critic's corner

BYLINE: Robert Bianco, @BiancoRobert, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 224 words


Disney Treasures TCM, 8 ET/5 PT

Old Yeller (9:30 ET/6:30 PT) is the big hit here, but for some, the bigger draws
may be the chance to see some of the less familiar titles, including The
Littlest Outlaw (11:15 ET/8:15 PT), The Ugly Duckling (12:45 a.m. ET/9:45 p.m.
PT), and one of the best of Disney's anthropomorphized nature documentaries,
Perri (8 ET/5 PT). Though how you feel about Perri is entirely dependent on how
you feel about squirrels.

Elf: Buddy's Musical Christmas NBC, 8 ET/PT

Jim Parsons stars in this sweet animated adaptation of the Broadway musical
based on Will Ferrell's Elf. Parsons does a fine job, singing and speaking, and
the songs are unfailingly pleasant. Just keep in mind that much of the humor of
the live-action film came from the incongruous sight of a grown man dressed up
as (and behaving like) an elf -- an incongruity that's lost when Buddy is a
stop-motion creature just like everyone else.

Star Fox, 9 ET/PT

Fox repeats the special preview

of this new, music-infused

star-is-born series from Empire's Lee Daniels and The Whole Truth's Tom Donaghy.
And perhaps one of the show's three young girl-group newcomers will indeed
become a star in time, though Beyoncé herself might have trouble breaking out of
the ramshackle house Daniels and Donaghy have constructed out of a thousand
mismatched scraps of melodrama.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Annette Brown, FOX

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             339 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

This would-be, misfit spy wasn't exactly James Bond

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 513 words


We like to think of spies and other traffickers in secret as suave and exciting,
like Bond or Bourne, but the reality is often more like Brian Patrick Regan.

Regan, as we learn in Yudhijit Bhattacharjee's The Spy Who Couldn't Spell (NAL,
304 pp., *** out of four),  was a misfit who coordinated military exercises and
data in the ultra-secret National Reconnaissance Office (NRO).  Dyslexic, sloppy
and overweight, Regan was often mocked by his colleagues.

He reacted as people like him often do: He lashed out at his tormentors, and the
method he chose turned him into a traitor.

Regan was not content with the typical and petty strikes against authority --
expense account chiseling or exaggerating on time sheets. Instead, in 2000, he
created a personal code to send messages to foreign governments, hoping to sell
U.S. secrets.

He also picked a curious way to contact potential clients.

"This letter is confidential and directed to your President or Intelligence
Chief," Regan's letter to the Libyan government said.

He included a "four-page letter with 149 lines of typed text consisting of
alphabetical characters and numbers. The second envelope included instructions
on how to decode the letter. The third envelope included two sets of code
sheets. One set contained a list of ciphers. The other, running to six pages,
listed dozens of words along with their encoded abbreviations: a system commonly
known as brevity codes."

Regan never got the chance to sell anything to anyone. He never even got a
meeting with an official from any government he considered a likely buyer for
the reconnaissance photos and manuals he stole from the NRO, which manages the
nation's network of spy satellites. That, in equal measures, is the appeal and
drawback of The Spy Who Couldn't Spell.

Bhattacharjee, a staff writer for Science magazine, has done an excellent job
explaining codes and ciphers. He makes that arcane world come alive,
particularly as he shows the chief investigators, led by the late Steve Carr of
the FBI, as they piece together the various clues that led them to Regan.

He also shows the dangers posed by a misfit working inside an intelligence
agency, a potential problem that security analysts call an insider threat.

These employees can tote their accumulated grievances for years and then strike
out, often with ruinous consequences. Too often, their managers fail to
recognize the problem in their midst, and then it's too late. For proof of that,
see Edward Snowden and the NSA.

The downside here, however, is that despite the lengthy sentence meted out to
Regan after he was convicted of espionage, his actions don't rise to the level
of a Snowden, Aldrich Ames or Kim Philby. The documents and photos never reached
a foreign government, nor were they ever linked to damage to U.S. interests or
troops. They eventually were recovered after extensive sleuthing. For all his
trying, Regan failed at being a spy.

U.S. intelligence  officers got lucky when a confidential informant tipped them
off, which turned the spy who couldn't spell into the spy who couldn't deliver.


LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             340 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Stars belt out their secrets to musical success and animal magnetism in 'Sing';

Matthew McConaughey, Reese Witherspoon and Scarlett Johansson really did burst
into songs for (in theaters Wednesday). Director Garth Jennings says it had to
be the A-list actors' own vocals for the animated movie about animals who
compete in a singing competition: "There's much more rooting interest knowing
the actors are really doing this." USA TODAY's and reveal the stories behind the
performances:

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 475 words


MATTHEW McCONAUGHEY (as Buster Moon)

Voicing the gung-ho koala who hosts a singing competition to save his struggling
theater, McConaughey tears into Carly Rae Jepsen's Call Me Maybe. Not pretty,
but fun.

"I said, 'Look, nothing's written for me to sing, but if you come up with
something, I'd love to give it a shot,'" McConaughey says. In the recording
booth, Jennings asked about Call Me Maybe. "I'd heard the song, obviously,"
McConaughey says. "So I said, 'Leave the recording (going) and I'll do it over
and over 20 times and we'll pick one out of there.'"

REESE WITHERSPOON (as Rosita)

As the overstressed housewife with 25 piglets, Witherspoon belts out three pop
showstoppers: Katy Perry's Firework, Bananarama's Venus and Taylor Swift's Shake
It Off. But the actress wasn't entirely confident in her singing, despite
winning an Oscar as June Carter Cash in Walk the Line.

"I ran into Katy when I was recording Firework and Taylor when I was recording
Shake It Off, and explained to both of them that they should brace themselves
for my version," Witherspoon says. "You sound really good in your car or your
shower, but then you have to actually go into the recording booth and it's hard
to sing those songs."

Her trick to nailing the vocals? M&M's. "It just gives me a sugar rush."

SCARLETT JOHANSSON (as Ash)

Johansson is a recording pro, having released two alternative-rock albums. But
she went hard core as the punk porcupine, especially on the original anthem Set
It All Free. "That may be a musical departure for me, personally, but it's the
perfect representation of Ash's experience." Her studio secret was "lots of
Throat Coat (tea) and gusto and letting go of my inhibitions."

Johansson also gave the full version of Call Me Maybe: "I mean, it's certainly
catchy."

TORI KELLY (as Meena)

The American Idol star surprised herself as the shy elephant with killer pipes
who does a stunning version of Leonard Cohen's Hallelujah and a breathy Happy
Birthday. But Kelly reached personal vocal heights for Stevie Wonder's classic
Don't You Worry 'Bout A Thing. "I didn't think I could hit those notes. I was
stretching my vocal ability."

Chalk it up to studio coaching, technique and lots of car practicing. ("I feel
hidden from people there.") It paid off: "When I found out Stevie Wonder heard
it and loved it, I freaked out."

TARON EGERTON (as Johnny)

Egerton, the Welsh star of

Kingsman: The Secret Service, showed surprising vocal ability, earning the part
of soulful gorilla Johnny after an Otis Redding-filled audition for Jennings.

Singing Stay With Me "really stretched me," Egerton says. "Sam Smith's falsetto
is really insane, but I gave it a go."

Johnny brings the house

down with I'm Still Standing by Egerton's hero Elton John. Like Johnny, Egerton
doesn't play the piano ("I wish"), but he can nail Can't Help Falling In Love on
his ukulele.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Sing photos by Norman Jean Roy/Illumination Entertainment

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             341 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'There are too many illegal guns'

BYLINE: Eddie Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 355 words


Like too many cities across the country, the violence some communities in
Chicago are contending with is unacceptable. Just two years ago, crime in
Chicago had been reduced to the lowest levels in decades. Today, that trend has
been reversed. To meet this rising tide of violence, the Chicago Police
Department is joining forces with partners across the city in a coordinated,
concerted effort to stop the violence. But we can't do it alone. No one can.

Police officers are the backbone of any public safety strategy, but we all have
a role to play, and that's why Mayor Rahm Emanuel outlined a comprehensive
strategy to improve the safety of our city. Under that plan, we will grow the
police department by nearly 1,000 new officers, all of whom will partner with
residents. Community policing must be the cornerstone of our strategy to reduce
crime, and so we are also implementing needed reforms to rebuild the bonds of
trust with the residents of Chicago, especially in communities of color.

The mayor is driving economic opportunities in our most struggling
neighborhoods. He is also investing $36 million over the next three years to
make mentoring universal for young men in our 20 most violent neighborhoods
because too many young men suffer from a lack of positive role models in their
lives.

But at the end of the day, our violence problem is an illegal gun problem. The
biggest difference between Chicago, New York and Los Angeles are the gun laws of
our states and the areas immediately surrounding our cities.

There are too many illegal guns on the south and west sides, and part of any
solution to Chicago's crime problem must be to strengthen penalties for the
repeat violent offenders carrying those guns. We are working with our allies in
the state legislature to accomplish that.

Gun violence is an issue President Obama has elevated on the national stage, and
it is something we are confronting head-on here in Chicago. There is no single
solution to the complex challenge of gun violence. Chicago's strategy is
holistic, comprehensive and collaborative.

Eddie Johnson is superintendent of the Chicago Police Department.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             342 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Movement to alter voting system misplaced?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 341 words


Facebook

Despite calls for members of the Electoral College to "vote their conscience"
and "dump Trump," the president-elect got more than the 270 electoral votes
needed to take office.

These were electors with no soul.

Thomas Laurie Felts

The electors took a pledge and followed the rules. God bless President-elect
Donald Trump.

Dwayne Landry

Both political parties are corrupt, that's why Trump won. He is beholden to
neither party, nor donors.

We're sick of crooked established politicians on both sides. Quit defending
them. I'm a Democrat. That party left me.

Randy Slodysko

Trump has talked out of both sides of his mouth constantly. I hate to see what
the next four years will bring. Are we going to come out of this ahead of the
game, or will this be another Bush-like administration after which a different
president will have to clean up the mess?

Eldo Moeller

This movement to alter the Electoral College should scare everyone to their
core. Our voting system is what makes our country. To alter that would be a
disgrace.

Scott Smart

Letters

The 2016 presidential election is very similar to the 2000 election.

Republicans stole that election through fraud and installed George W. Bush as
president.

Donald Trump lost this election by almost 3 million votes. Some media outlets
are turning a blind eye to this GOP heist.

If media outlets aren't more vigilant, nothing will deter Republicans from
gaming the system again in 2020, 2024 and 2028.

Ron Lowe

Nevada City, Calif.

Could someone explain to me why Democrats feel it is wrong for anyone to hack
into their Democratic National Committee's computers, but it is OK for their
party to try and steal Republican Electoral College votes with protests and
thousands of letters, emails and even threats directed at Republican electors?

This is a prime example of the hypocrisy of the liberals, despite their cries
for tolerance.

They don't have the foggiest idea what the word tolerant means. What would have
happened if the Republicans had done the same when President Obama was elected?

Jim Olsen

Hobe Sound, Fla.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             343 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Pomp and protests: Inauguration may be accompanied by uproar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 443 words


Trump Tower it's not. The Presidential Inaugural Committee works out of a
nondescript General Services Administration building in southwest Washington.
Boris Epshteyn, 34, a Republican activist from New Jersey who became one of
Donald Trump's most vigorous defenders on cable TV during the campaign, is
communication director for the operation planning for the festivities Jan. 20.
Questions and answers have been edited for length and clarity.

Q: A big Inauguration Day on Jan. 20 -- and an unprecedented number of
protesters expected. Are you concerned?

A: Americans have First Amendment rights, and we are very honored that people
will come to celebrate this inauguration, and we understand that some will come
and protest, and that's fully within their rights as long as they do it
peacefully.

Q: What's the message President-elect Trump wants to convey on that day?

A: It's all about unity. It's about the country coming together, being one
America, America uniting, and him being the president for all Americans.

Q: He's reduced the number of inaugural balls, from the 10 that President Obama
had to three. Why?

A: This is not a coronation. It's an inauguration. It's a day to work and a day
to get to work. And the  ... incoming president, is someone who's eager to get
to work, who's eager to make sure Americans are safe, to make sure Americans are
employed.

Q: There have been reports you've had trouble lining up A-list celebrities.
True?

A: Absolutely not. We've had celebrities from all over the world reaching out,
wanting to perform. But this inauguration is of the people, it's by the people,
it's for the people. It's not about celebrities; it's not about entertainers.

Q: You were one of Trump's most loyal surrogates during the campaign.  ... Did
you ever have a point when you thought, "I can't defend him anymore"?

A: Absolutely not. Because I always firmly believed that it was a binary choice
between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump, who was effective, who was pragmatic,
who was smart and who truly leads. And I always believed that he was the right
person for this job, and nothing made me waver from that.

Q: You were born in the Soviet Union; your family immigrated to the United
States when you were 11.

A: We were Jewish refugees, and we came to this country in the early '90s, and
(New Jersey Sen.) Frank Lautenberg was part of this legislation, the Lautenberg
Amendment, that allowed for Russian Jews to come to the United States and to go
through the specific processes, to follow the laws, rules and regulations. ...
My folks took the test, and we became citizens -- so proud to follow the law and
to be citizens of this beautiful country.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo David Baratz, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             344 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

first word

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 190 words


first word

I DON'T WANT TO TALK ABOUT NUMBERS REALLY. IF HE'S THE BEST PLAYER IN THE WORLD,
THOUGH, THEN HE SHOULD BE THE BEST PLAYER IN THE WORLD IN ALL ASPECTS, EVEN
ECONOMICALLY. THAT'S ALL I WILL SAY ON NUMBERS."

FC Barcelona President Josep Maria Bartomeu on superstar Lionel Messi, whose
contract runs through 2018.

TWEET OF THE DAY

@marshallfaulk

If a RB can't play in a bowl game vs college competition without getting hurt.
How in the hell is he going to play 16+ games in the NFL?

Hall of Famer Marshall Faulk, seemingly criticizing LSU's Leonard Fournette and
Stanford's Christian McCaffrey for skipping their teams' bowl games.

MAGIC NUMBER

12

Times that Michael Phelps has been on the cover of "Sports Illustrated,"
including the latest edition in which he is wearing his 23 Olympic gold medals.

LAST WORD

BUT DON'T THINK FOR A MOMENT IT WAS JUST ABOUT STYLE.

IF THAT IS YOUR THINKING, YOU'RE OFF BY A MILE.

HE PREPPED FOR EACH GAME WITH METICULOUS FLAIR.

A PRO'S PRO DOES THAT WHEN HE GOES ON THE AIR.

Turner Sports' Ernie Johnson Jr., in a poem honoring colleague Craig Sager at
his memorial service in Marietta, Ga.

Compiled by USA TODAY Sports

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Messi by Alberto Estevez, EPA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             345 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Upheaval reigns in women's division

BYLINE: Martin Rogers, @mrogersUSAT, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 566 words


The last time Ronda Rousey stepped into the octagon, the Ultimate Fighting
Championship's bantamweight division was a one-woman show. Now it is the
organization's most cursed -- and most compelling -- title.

"Ronda wants the belt back," UFC President Dana White said in the build-up to
her Dec. 30 main-event showdown with champion Amanda Nunes at UFC 207. "She
feels like it's hers."

However, in the 13 months since the brutal end of Rousey's unbeaten record and
aura of invincibility, the landscape at the top end of women's mixed martial
arts has shifted considerably.

Rousey was the first and only women's bantamweight champ in UFC history when she
faced off against Holly Holm at Etihad Stadium in Melbourne, Australia, in
November 2015 and was on a dominant streak of overpowering victories that made
her a household name and a  pop-culture icon.

The only criticism that could be leveled at her then was that she made the
division too predictable. Since she was knocked cold by Holm's savage kick to
the side of her face in the second round, things have gone anything but as
expected.

First, Holm was unable to capitalize on her newfound celebrity. With Rousey's
health and future uncertain, the former world boxing champion opted to defend
her crown against Miesha Tate instead of waiting for a lucrative rematch.

In March, Tate survived Holm's punches before successfully executing a
fifth-round choke submission to win the belt. Tate and Rousey had history, but
Rousey was still not ready to return, so Tate put up the title against Nunes in
what became the main event of UFC 200 after Jon Jones was ruled out because of a
doping issue.

Nunes handed down a forceful beating before winning by first-round submission to
become another fresh titleholder, despite having been on the outer reaches of
the division a year earlier.

Meanwhile, Holm lost again, to Valentina Shevchenko, and will move up to the
newly created featherweight division at 145 pounds, while Tate was defeated by
Raquel Pennington and retired from the octagon. Cristiane Justino also entered
the UFC and repeatedly called out Rousey, a matchup that has the potential to be
the most lucrative women's bout in history.

Which brings us back to Rousey, who has the opportunity to get the belt back in
her return fight, which was White's plan all along.

"Unbelievable," he said in reference to the division. "You have a dominant
champion, and then suddenly the belt is passed around three times in three
fights. You never know what to expect next."

White said from the time Rousey lost that she would get a shot at the title in
her first fight back, a reward for the way she put women's MMA on the map since
entering the sport in 2011 after a judo career in which she won an Olympic
bronze medal in 2008.

She is the strong favorite in the Dec. 30 bout, and victory would mean a fourth
consecutive title fight in which the belt has been slipped around a different
waist.

Nunes, though, should not be discounted.

"Women's MMA is so strong now, and there is a lot of depth," Tate said. "It
might be awhile before you see someone go on a long streak of title defenses
again."

A Rousey victory would set up a number of intriguing options, including a
potential move up to featherweight for a rematch with Holm or a showdown with
Justino. Yet as the last 13 months have shown, it is wise to expect the
unexpected in MMA's most tumultuous division.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Michael Reaves, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             346 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Two murders a day push up Chicago's grim body count

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 520 words


xEvery week, one heart-wrenching story after another flows from the streets of
Chicago: The 15-year-old grandson of a U.S. congressman, gunned down in a
dispute over sneakers. Twin 17-year-old boys killed by a drive-by shooter. The
cousin of basketball star Dwyane Wade dying in a crossfire while pushing her
baby in a stroller.

The nation has been moved, and appropriately so, by the  tragedies half a world
away in Aleppo, Syria. But there's unremitting violence and mindless killing of
young people right in America's third largest city, where at least 738 murders
have been committed this year, more than in Los Angeles and New York combined.
Brutal cold typically drives down crime, but when it swept into the Windy City
last weekend, 10 more people died.

The body count is up sharply from last year's 473 murders to a level not seen in
Chicago since the drug wars of the mid-1990s.

City officials blame gang activity, fecklessly enforced gun laws and firearms
flowing in from outside Chicago.  There's crushing poverty and unemployment in
the most violent neighborhoods on the city's west and south sides. Social safety
nets have frayed because of a state budget impasse.

But plentiful guns, family breakdown and other social pathologies aren't unique
to Chicago, which suggests that contributing factors in the murder spike are a
lack of leadership from City Hall and a mismanaged police force alienated from
the crime-plagued neighborhoods most in need of law enforcement service and
protection.

This gaping chasm between police and the citizens they serve was described in a
damning task force report issued last April that found systemic racism in the
department's use of force, little accountability for police misconduct and
sorely lacking community engagement. "Police have no regard for the sanctity of
life when it comes to people of color," the task force report says.

Without cooperative buy-in from these troubled communities, police don't get the
assistance they need and killers go unpunished. It's little wonder that the
Chicago Police Department's success at "clearing" or solving murders dropped
precipitously from well over half in the 1990s to about 30% now.

The task force was launched following an angry public backlash over the belated
release, in November 2015, of videotapes showing police shooting unarmed
17-year-old Laquan McDonald the previous year. Trial for the former cop who
pulled the trigger is still pending.

There's a new police superintendent, and the city is expanding its police force
by about 1,000 people to 13,500 by the end of 2018. Chicago already has more
police officers per capita than New York and Los Angeles, however, and many
experts say Chicago could use the existing force more efficiently, with greater
data-driven focus on "hot spots" of crime activity.

Mayor Rahm Emanuel, the City Council, the police and civilian leaders have an
urgent duty to curb the carnage in the neighborhoods where these young people
are dying. Perhaps a soon-to-be-unemployed former community organizer from
Chicago could be enlisted to make this scourge one of his post-presidential
priorities.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             347 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Title IX is 'bureaucratic sex creep' gone wild

BYLINE: Glenn Harlan Reynolds

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 501 words


If you want to see how the federal bureaucracy can mess things up, and create
huge new areas of overburdening regulation, just look at what it has done with
Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972.

Title IX simply reads: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of
sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be
subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving
federal financial assistance." That's all. But from this small, simple statement
has been created a regulatory Tower of Babel governing sports teams, student
discipline and even, and most dubiously, sexual consent.

One doubts that the members of Congress who drafted Title IX intended to produce
what Harvard Law School professors Jacob Gersen and Jeannie Suk have called
"bureaucratic sex creep," in which colleges -- allegedly to ensure compliance
with Title IX's non-discrimination mandate -- micromanage the sex lives of
students and subject them to Orwellian levels of surveillance, investigation and
supervision.

This has been done not because Congress ordered it, or even because the
Education Department issued regulations with notice to the public and an
opportunity for comment. Instead, the department's Office for Civil Rights has
issued "guidance," in the form of letters to colleges and universities stating
its opinion as to what the law required.

Having come to this point, what do we do next?

President-elect Donald Trump has named Betsy DeVos to be secretary of Education,
but there's no word yet as to who will head its Office for Civil Rights. But it
seems clear that the overreach needs to be rolled back.

One possibility would be to repeal or amend Title IX. Congress could do that,
though my concern is if the bureaucracy can make such a hash out of a single
sentence, how likely is it to be restrained by any amendment?

Another would be for the new Education Department to issue new binding
regulations after notice and comment. Those regulations might say that colleges
should turn over complaints of sexual assault to law enforcement authorities,
and that things such as "microaggressions" and opinions with which one disagrees
do not constitute "discrimination."

Or, if the Trump administration is feeling mischievous, it could emulate the
Obama administration and use guidance to enforce Title IX strictly according to
its own views. Perhaps policies that discriminate against fraternities could
become grounds for loss of funding based on discrimination. (Especially if
university officials use derogatory sexist terms like "frat boy.") Perhaps
admissions criteria that produce disproportionately female student bodies could
be analyzed for discrimination under "disparate impact" theories.

Ideally, we'll take an approach based on due process and common sense, which
would represent a considerable change over the past several years' policies.

Glenn Harlan Reynolds, a University of Tennessee law professor,  is a member of
USA TODAY's Board of Contributors.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: OPINION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             348 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

It took Martin Scorsese 28 years to give voice to 'Silence';
Rewrites and legal issues delayed the filmmaker's epic of Jesuit missionaries in
17th-century Japan

BYLINE: Patrick Ryan, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 491 words


After 28 years of trying to bring Silence to the big screen, Martin Scorsese can
finally breathe a sigh of relief.

"It's amazing that with all the things against the film that it got made and
it's going to be shown," says Scorsese, 74. "There was a lot of sacrifice, a lot
of problems, a lot of delays. But this is where I felt I should spend my time."

The Oscar-winning director is seated in a suite at the Loews Regency hotel on
the Upper East Side, where in 1988, he was introduced to Archbishop Paul Moore
following a  screening of The Last Temptation of Christ. After a long discussion
about faith,  Moore offered to send Scorsese a copy of Japanese author Shusaku
Endo's 1966 historical novel Silence.

Silence (in theaters Friday in New York and Los Angeles; expands  through
mid-January) follows two Portuguese Jesuit missionaries (Andrew Garfield and
Adam Driver) in 17th-century Japan searching for their "fallen" mentor (Liam
Neeson), who they fear has renounced his religion at the hands of a regime that
persecutes Christians.

When Scorsese read the book, "I knew immediately that I wanted to do something
with this," he says. Disappointed by the "great misunderstanding" and backlash
around Last Temptation -- which imagined Jesus living a mortal life -- he was
eager to explore "something different. (Silence) was getting closer to the very
essence and heart of Christianity," but also the "common nature of what it is to
be a human being."

But when he sat down with co-writer Jay Cocks in 1990 to adapt the screenplay,
"I didn't know how to visualize or structure the story," particularly the film's
tricky final section, in which Father Rodrigues (Garfield) wrestles with
abandoning his faith.

For nearly two decades, Scorsese and Cocks attempted to crack the story. In
2012, Scorsese was sued by an Italian production company for failure to make
Silence, which he had backburnered for The Wolf of Wall Street. Scorsese shot
the film last year on a modest $46.5 million budget in Taiwan, where cast and
crew endured extreme heat and typhoons.

The film's challenges haven't ended. Though Silence has been well-received by
critics, few saw it ahead of last week's Golden Globe and Screen Actors Guild
Awards nominations, where the project was overlooked. With its subject matter
and nearly three-hour run time, the film also faces an uphill battle at the box
office.

Both Scorsese and Cocks are glad that Silence came together when it did, as
they've grown artistically, personally and spiritually over the past three
decades.

In that length of time, with "your life changing and maybe your values changing,
too, things that are really important all come together," Scorsese says.

Cocks adds: "There was a certain kind of maturity we didn't have then that we
could bring to this now. ... A certain imperative for faith; a need to believe
that maybe we didn't have when we were a little more footloose 25 years ago. The
movie is deeper for that."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo photos by Kerry Brown

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             349 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Animals are in tune with a can-do spirit (and Reese sings!) in animated 'Sing'

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 492 words


For those lamenting the absence of American Idol, now there's Animal Idol --
better known as Sing.

Written and directed by Garth Jennings (The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy),
the musical animated film (**1/2 out of four; rated PG; in theaters Wednesday)
trades Ryan Seacrest for a charismatic koala in its showcase of heart-tugging
stories, colorful characters and enough pop songs to fill a playlist but not
much else. It's confident in its fluffy nature, though, and is a lighthearted
treat for kids who can stand a little Sir Mix-A-Lot and Christopher Cross with
their Taylor Swift and Katy Perry.

The animal city  in Sing is like Zootopia but with way less social commentary
and a better soundtrack. Showman Buster Moon (Matthew McConaughey) runs a
theater that's seen better days, and he gets the idea to host a singing
competition. He's only got $1,000 to his name for prize money, and thanks to his
senile lizard secretary (Jennings), a typo on the show flier says $100,000,
which puts the  koala in a bind.

That brings out anybody with a tune in their soul and a little ambition in their
heart, including punk-girl porcupine Ash (Scarlett Johansson), British gorilla
Johnny (Taron Egerton) and overworked mommy pig Rosita (Reese Witherspoon). They
all have their own stories to tell, though the personality that resonates
strongest is Meena (Tori Kelly), an immensely talented teenage elephant who
would be a superstar if she could only get past crippling stage fright.

The plot is predictable with a well-trod  "Let's put on a show!" premise, though
there are quite a few hilariously quirky moments -- Buster and his best sheep
pal Eddie (John C. Reilly) washing cars is surprisingly funny -- and some
touching scenes as well. Family is a crucial aspect to many of the main
characters' journeys as they all try to find their voices.

Like Idol, the best parts of Sing are the musical sequences. There's an
entertaining first round of auditions with bunnies doing Baby Got Back, a trio
of frogs singing Jump and a snail crooning Ride Like the Wind -- the more
nonsensical, the better. The middle  slows but picks up in time for the
tune-filled finale that'll leave you with a big  grin. The one off note is the
mouse Mike (Seth MacFarlane), whose Frank Sinatra songs seem out of place amid a
plethora of Top 40.

McConaughey gives Buster a great can-do spirit. Johansson and Egerton are both
more than capable singers, Nick Kroll is fashionably Europop as Rosita's glam
German dance partner Gunter, and the supporting cast is a zoo of personality,
from Leslie Jones as Meena's mom to Jennifer Hudson as a young version of
Eddie's operatic grandmother. Kelly, a Grammy-nominated songstress, lives up to
the Sing title more than most, and her take on Hallelujah is particularly
effective.

In a year full of talking-animal hits, Sing isn't quite as strong a number. It's
a tale that might not be particularly thought-provoking but sure is toe-tapping.


LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Illumination Entertainment

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             350 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          December 21, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Stars bid colorful farewell to Sager;
TNT reporter's gregarious personality remembered with fondness at funeral

BYLINE: Ray Glier, @RAYGLIER, Special for USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 567 words


Craig Sager's funeral service Tuesday morning was held in living color, the
ultimate contradiction, if you think about it. Garish replaced black and
irreverence supplanted somberness for 90 minutes.

The NBA announcing maverick, who died Thursday after a three-year battle with
leukemia, went out with flamboyance as mourners dressed as if they were
attending a Halloween dance.

Charles Barkley wore a bright red shirt. Ernie Johnson Jr. wore multicolored
shoes. Reggie Miller wore a light purple jacket. And Sager's family and friends
and colleagues at Turner Broadcasting paid tribute in bright orange, resplendent
blue and checkerboard jackets.

NBA Commissioner Adam Silver wore a dark suit because, well, he is the NBA
commissioner. San Antonio Spurs coach Greg Popovich wore a gray suit because,
well, he's the dour Pop.

Most of the rest of the crowd was fit for an art gallery, the grand opening of a
circus or a dance by the beach.

Sager, a wiseguy's wiseguy, would have been pleased. He was 65 when he died and
is survived by his wife and five children.

"He was his own television show," said Kenny Smith, the former North Carolina
and NBA star, who is part of Turner's popular NBA studio show. "He was
different. He wasn't just TNT. He was Sager-vision."

Silver sat in the front row of the Mt. Bethel United Methodist Church. Barkley
sat in the second row and Smith in the third row. Johnson sat near Reggie Miller
who sat near Isiah Thomas. Popovich slipped into the church almost unnoticed and
sat in the back left with former Boston Celtics great Kevin McHale.

You get the picture. Sager was a member of the media -- a sideline analyst --
who was adored by the people he covered, which is as rare as some of the jackets
he wore. Former NBA star Kevin Garnett finished an interview with Sager once and
looked at the TV guy's suit and said, "You take this and burn it."

"It was his ability to connect with the players and not settle for simple
answers," Smith said, explaining how Sager resonated with coaches and players.
"He made you say the great answer, not the typical answer."

Randy Mickler, the former senior pastor of Mt. Bethel, was not officiating a
funeral; he was more like a master of ceremonies. Before he died, Sager asked
Mickler what he was going to wear to Sager's funeral.

"A black robe," Mickler said.

"No, no, no," Sager said. Mickler wore a purplish jacket Tuesday.

Kacy and Krista Sager, two of Craig's daughters, and Craig Sager II, his son,
described the irreverence of their father in the hallowed hall, which prompted
Mickler to say from the pulpit in the middle of the service, "The Lord is beyond
his shock by now."

Sager started in TV in of all things a drab trench coat. And he was not really
in TV when he became prominent. He was in radio.

On April 8, 1974, Sager, then 22, ran on the field of Atlanta-Fulton County
Stadium and met Hank Aaron at home plate with a microphone as Aaron touched home
plate after historic home run No. 715 passing Babe Ruth.

But Sager's mark was made with a big round ball, not a small round ball. He
covered NBA games for Turner for 26 years.

"Craig added fun to the league with his suits and his colorfulness," McHale
said. "You looked forward to his interviews, you really did. Craig had a way of
seeing things through rose-colored glasses, even in the heat of the moment. It
was fun to be around an optimistic guy, and we're all going to miss him."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jason Getz, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             351 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Read the fine print;
Some car sales aren't as sweet as originally perceived

BYLINE: Philip Reed, NerdWallet

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 594 words


When it comes to car ads, there's little truth in advertising. However, that
little bit of truth could point you toward being a smarter car shopper. So it's
important to separate fact from fiction when shopping for a new car.

To help you see through the hype, I contacted two colleagues and drew on
experience from my time as a car salesman. Together, we've listed the five fibs
we see most often in TV and print auto ads.

Ridiculously low lease payments

These days, it seems you can lease any car for $199 -- or even less -- per
month. But Jim Dykstra, a former car dealer who created the subscription
car-buying site Vinadvisor.net, says a low payment really just means you're
getting less.

Case in point: included mileage. "You need to understand the value of miles
before you race down to the dealership," he says. "The difference between a
lease calculated at 10,000 miles per year and 15,000 miles per year can be up to
$50 a month."

Advertised lease payments might also omit taxes and fees, Dykstra says. In many
states, the sales tax plus the dealer and registry fees increase the lease
payment by more than 10%.

Hidden drive-off fees

This is my personal favorite, because you could theoretically lease a Ferrari
for $199 per month if  you paid high enough drive-off fees. "Drive-off fees" is
a leasing term for the amount of money you pay up front to cruise off the lot.
For example, many dealerships advertise the Audi A4 for a monthly payment of
$350. This probably doesn't include the tax and fees, as Dykstra points out, and
you'll have to plunk down $3,500 to qualify for this low payment.

Down payments make sense when you'll eventually own the car, but when leasing a
car, it's the opposite. Instead, make a drive-off payment of $1,000 or less.
Your monthly lease payment will be higher, but you'll preserve your savings.

Show one car,  price another

"A classic game that car ads like to play is showing the most decked out, fully
loaded, top trim level of a model but (advertising) it for the price of the base
model," automotive reporter Jaclyn Trop says. "In reality, the prices can differ
by thousands of dollars."

When shopping, she suggests, you should review the equipment included with each
trim level -- typically base, sport and luxury -- and buying only features you
know you need.

The case of the disappearing "ad car"

Automakers equip one version of a car model at a strategic price so they can
present an affordable-sounding figure. But Dykstra says dealers order few of
these cars.

"So lots of times, even if you wanted to buy the ad car that you saw online or
on TV, those ad cars are few and far between," he says.

Here's a tip-off that the vehicle in the newspaper is an ad car: In small print,
the ad will say, "1 at this price." And that one car is in the back of the lot
blocked in by five other vehicles.

Incentives -- but not  for you

You're reading the newspaper when you see an ad for the car you want at an
unbelievably low price. You think there must be a catch -- and there is. Above
the advertised price, you'll usually find a note that the company has factored
in cash incentives, but you probably won't qualify for these. Dealers will often
extend hefty loyalty bonuses to those who buy the same make of car, so unless
you're sticking with the same brand, you're out of luck.

Philip Reed is a staff writer at NerdWallet, a personal finance website. Email:
preed@nerdwallet.com NerdWallet is a USA TODAY content partner providing general
news, commentary and coverage from around the web. Its content is produced
independently of USA TODAY.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             352 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

We're determined to raise standards

BYLINE: Paul Parilla and Steve Penny

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 351 words


USA Gymnastics believes that even one instance of child abuse, whether at a
school, church or gym, is one too many. Athlete safety and well-being must not
be taken for granted and requires as much diligence and attention as the
training required for a perfect routine.

USA Gymnastics recognizes its role in protecting our athletes and understands
that this requires proper reporting and a comprehensive plan of action. As many
youth-serving organizations realize, this can be a significant challenge.

A timeline of our policy advancements is available, and USA Gymnastics has been
publishing a list of banned members since 1990.

USA Gymnastics' current policy is that if anyone suspects sexual abuse, the
organization encourages those involved to contact law enforcement and/or
contacts law enforcement directly. This includes multiple instances when USA
Gymnastics has done so.

That said, the work is ongoing, and most recently, we enlisted former federal
prosecutor Deborah Daniels to independently review our policies and make
recommendations. USA Gymnastics is a membership-based organization comprised of
independent clubs, athletes and professional members. We believe that the
results of the Daniels review will focus on increased accountability, compliance
and transparency.

USA Gymnastics has played an active role in the creation of the U.S. Center for
Safe Sport, an independent agency designed to prevent sexual abuse in sport with
a model similar to the one dedicated to eliminating performance-enhancing
substances. Once in place, the center will provide independent investigations
and adjudication, with the national governing bodies focused on compliance,
prevention, reporting and education.

USA Gymnastics is filled with trustworthy people who go to work every day to
help young people fulfill their potential in a safe and fun environment. We are
determined to raise the standards throughout the entire sport and are committed
to the effort that lies ahead to further protect our young people.

Paul Parilla is chairman of the board of directors, and Steve Penny is
president, of USA Gymnastics.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             353 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Memphis eatery's famed waiters to retire

BYLINE: Geoff Calkins, The Commercial Appeal

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 423 words


In 1963, Robert Newman showed up at the Rendezvous.

He liked the thick ham-and-cheese sandwiches they served back then.

Everybody did.

"They were like this," said Newman, holding his thumb and forefinger 6 inches
apart. "I was working at the William Len Hotel. I went down, I think it was on a
Saturday night, and Mr. Charlie, Charlie Vergos, asked me if I wanted to work
for him. That's how it began."

In 1969, Percy Norris showed up at the Rendezvous. He had a buddy who worked at
the place. He used to pick up his buddy at night.

"I was working at a truck line at the time, loading and unloading trucks,"
Norris said. "I always wanted to be a waiter, because you got a chance to dress
sharply every day. Finally, one of the guys that was a bartender at the
Rendezvous, his name was Catfish, he didn't show up for work one day. Mr.
Charlie called me and I got a job and things just took off."

Robert Newman -- Big Robert -- has been at the restaurant for 53 years.

Percy Norris -- everybody knows him as Percy -- has been at the restaurant for
48.

That's more than 100 years serving up ribs and shoulder and hospitality.

That's more than 100 years in an industry defined by turnover and churn.

And at the end of this year, Big Robert and Percy will hang up their bow ties
and see what life after the Rendezvous is like.

Said Percy,  68: "I gotta give it up. It's been a long haul, 48 years."

Said Big Robert,  71: "I have to. I just got out of the hospital, but I'm not
ready to go."

Memphians know Big Robert and Percy nearly as well as the restaurant itself.

"These guys who are retiring, they are probably as much a part of the Rendezvous
as the ribs, and my family, and everything else about it," said John Vergos, one
of the restaurant's owners. "Certain people won't come down here if they can't
get a certain waiter, if they can't get Percy or Robert.

"They've fed four generations of people. They've lived through and they've seen
a lot of things."

When John's father, Charlie Vergos, opened the Rendezvous in 1948, he served
sandwiches, not barbecue, and a converted coal chute in the basement became a
smoker first for hams and eventually ribs.

Once Vergos blended Greek seasoning with Creole spices, he created the dry rub
that would make his ribs famous.

Nearly 70 years later, celebrities such as the Rolling Stones, Harry Caray,
Mario Batali, Jerry Seinfeld and, more recently, members of the British royal
family, still flock to the barbecue restaurant located in an alley across the
street from The Peabody Hotel.

Contributing: Jennifer Biggs

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             354 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Could hackers knock out the power grid?;
A year ago, Ukraine lost power after computer breaches

BYLINE: Bill Loveless, @bill_loveless , Special for USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 668 words


Worries over cyberattacks on the USA are increasing in the aftermath of a
presidential election in which the CIA alleged that Russia used such means to
influence our electoral process.

For the moment, the vulnerability of polling and political operations to hacking
gets most of the attention.

But this week will mark the one-year anniversary of the first publicly
acknowledged cyberincident to take down portions of a power grid, one of the
most critical components of a nation's infrastructure.

On Dec.23, 2015, about 225,000 customers of three electric distribution
companies in western Ukraine lost power as a result of computer breaches and
malware plants that investigations indicate began six months before.

Though caught unawares by the incursion, the Ukrainian companies restored
electricity within several hours, using old-fashioned manual controls rather
than suddenly unreliable computers.

As for responsibility for the sabotage, Ukraine blames Russia.

Could it happen here?

Executives with the U.S. power industry, which participated with Ukraine and
U.S. government agencies in an inquiry of last year's blackout, have insisted
for months that such an occurrence is unlikely here.

Days from the one-year anniversary of the Ukraine event, a top official with the
U.S. organization responsible for enforcing security and reliability standards
for bulk power systems said he's more certain than ever that such a risk within
our borders is minimal.

"The chain of events there is very unlikely to happen here," said Marcus Sachs,
the senior vice president and chief security officer at the North American
Electric Reliability Corp. (NERC), a non-profit industry organization that
oversees generation and transmission facilities and their control systems in the
USA and Canada.

"We know people are trying it all the time, but to be fair, it hasn't happened,
which is likely due to hidden resilience from our enforceable standards,
training and operational diversity," Sachs said at NERC's offices in Washington.
"What we're constantly trying to learn is why does it work here as well as it
does, and we're uncovering little things that (the) Ukraine (incident) helped us
with."

According to Sachs, formerly the vice president for national security policy at
Verizon Communications, the resilience results largely from mandatory standards
developed by NERC in response to legislation passed by Congress in 2005.

Those standards require utilities to routinely check their computer systems for
dangerous exposure on the Internet, including sophisticated measures to protect
the software that collects data from remote locations to control equipment.

They also include more mundane steps, such as providing reminders to change
passwords.

"As we started going through it, we began to see the No.1 problem was hygiene, a
lack of just doing common-sense things," Sachs said of inquiries into the
Ukraine blackout.

"Half the computers there were using pirated or stolen or recycled software.
Upgrades hadn't been happening. Patching wasn't happening. All of the things
we've been teaching people to do since the 1990s, like change your password from
time to time, and don't put it on a sticky note, they weren't doing that."

Some still worry about U.S. preparedness for a cyberattack on the grid, among
them former TV anchor Ted Koppel, whose 2015 book, Lights Out, accused the power
industry and the government of demonstrating insufficient attention to the
potential for a blackout and the public turmoil that could follow.

"When Koppel says the grid is a mouse click away from collapse, he's wrong,"
Sachs said, though he agreed with the author's claims that government efforts to
prepare the public for potential crises such as cyberattacks on infrastructure
are muddled.

"I think he's spot-on there," the NERC official said. "There's still a lot of
infighting within the government."

Bill Loveless  is a veteran energy journalist and podcast host in Washington. He
is the former anchor of the TV program Platts Energy Week.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Thinkstock

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             355 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Uber ignores Calif. threats, keeps testing self-driving cars

BYLINE: Elizabeth Weise, @eweise, USATODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 461 words


Uber on Monday said it's continuing to test its 11 self-driving cars on the
streets of San Francisco, despite the threat of legal action from the California
attorney general's office if the company does not "immediately" remove its test
vehicles from public roads.

The attorney general's letter, sent late Friday, orders San Francisco-based Uber
to apply for the appropriate permits from the state's Department of Motor
Vehicles before continuing to test its cars. If the company does not, "the
attorney general will seek injunctive and other appropriate relief" to stop the
testing, the letter said.

In the letter, the word "immediately" was italicized for emphasis.

In an email to USA TODAY Monday, Uber confirmed that its testing program in San
Francisco was on-going.

Uber says its self-driving cars don't require a DMV permit because the systems
it is using are no different from current advanced driver-assistance systems
that help with parking and collision avoidance, the same systems available in
some cars today.

In a Friday-afternoon media call, Anthony Levandowski, who runs Uber's
autonomous car programs, said the permitting process doesn't apply to the
company and that "we cannot in good conscience" comply with a regulation that
the company doesn't believe applies to it.

California doesn't agree.

California Vehicle Code Section 38750 requires the DMV to adopt regulations
governing both the testing and public use of autonomous vehicles on California
roadways.

Under the state's definition, autonomous technology means "technology that has
the capability to drive a vehicle without the active physical control or
monitoring by a human operator."

It explicitly excludes vehicles that are equipped with collision avoidance
systems, such as electronic blind spot assistance, automated emergency braking
systems, park assist, adaptive cruise control, lane keep assist, lane departure
warning, and traffic jam and queuing assist.

The DMV sent a cease-and-desist letter to Uber on Dec.14 that said that under
the California Vehicle Code, an autonomous vehicle must have a permit to ensure
that "those testing the vehicle have provided an adequate level of financial
responsibility, have adequately trained qualified test drivers on the safe
operation of the autonomous technology; and will notify the DMV when the
vehicles have been involved in a collision."

The ride-hailing start-up, which has a long history of fighting with municipal
authorities,  says that the DMV's definition of an autonomous vehicle doesn't
apply. Uber's reasoning: It's not building a vehicle that has no steering wheel,
pedals or human driver, but rather, is creating a technology to give a
"significant level" of driver assistance while still requiring driver oversight,
Levandowski said.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             356 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

As sales level off, look for new car bargains;
Rising inventories could result in good deals for consumers

BYLINE: Joe Taschler, Milwaukee Journal Sentinel

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 574 words


Coming off what may turn out to be its best back-to-back sales years ever, the
U.S. automotive business appears to be easing off the accelerator a bit heading
into 2017.

For consumers, that means there may be bargains to be found.

"The bottom line is sales (rates) are still pretty high, but they are plateauing
and it is taking more effort in terms of promotion and incentives to keep sales
higher. And we expect that will be more of the same next year," said Michele
Krebs, senior analyst for automotive website Autotrader.

With sales leveling off, inventories are rising. "When inventories rise,
automakers put more incentives on," Krebs said. "Incentives are the highest they
have been in a long time."

For consumers, some of the best deals to be found are on cars rather than SUVs,
crossovers and pickup trucks, said Jim Tolkan, president of the Automobile
Dealers Association of Mega Milwaukee.

"There are certain cars that are absolute bargains," Tolkan said -- especially
compact, subcompact and midsize cars.

"There's been a huge shift -- even significantly greater than last year -- from
car sales to pickup trucks and even more so, crossover vehicles and SUVs,"
Tolkan said.

Nationally, new vehicle sales are about 70% light-duty trucks and crossovers --
"everything from a (Toyota) RAV4 to a Kia Soul to a GMC Yukon," Tolkan said --
and about 30% cars. The industry set a new-vehicle sales record last year. This
year, sales are on track either for a new record or a near-miss.

Beyond the growth in sales of SUVs and pickups, an overall inventory shift is
forecast for 2017 as thousands of leases are up. That could mean some decent
deals for used-car shoppers in 2017.

"When all those cars are coming back from leases, they have to go someplace,"
Tolkan said. "That will be a benefit to a true used-car customer."

Frank Boucher, president of the Boucher Automotive Group, which has locations
across southern Wisconsin, says leasing can make up as much as 50% of his
business.

Jesse Toprak, CEO of automotive website carhub.com, points out that cars coming
off leases are often good deals.

"Somebody else took the initial depreciation on the car, and you can still get a
car with a good amount of warranty," Toprak said.

Interest rates are rising, right along with the stock market, but dealers don't
think they will affect auto loans much.

"If it clicks up a half a point, that's not a big move," said Jim Griffin,
president of the Griffin Automotive Group of dealerships in Milwaukee and
Waukesha, Wis. "I've been in the business when they were 18%."

With an anticipated rate increase that is relatively small, auto manufacturers
will likely step in and subsidize loan programs to keep interest rates near
zero.

Toprak has researched the relationship between the stock market and automotive
business and has found that the auto market tends to move in tandem with stocks.

"The correlation between the new vehicle sales rate and the Dow Jones industrial
average for the last decade is nearly 80%," Toprak said. "You see them more or
less moving hand-in-hand. As long as whatever is happening in the economy,
including interest rates, is not impacting the stock market dramatically
negatively, car markets should also be able to hold strong."

A labor market that is nearly at full employment also bodes well for the car
market going into 2017.

"I think the employment picture and the way people feel about their employment
is very positive," Sommer said.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo file photo by Gene J. Puskar, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             357 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Retailers to end on-call shifts for 50,000 workers

BYLINE: Kevin McCoy, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 491 words


An estimated 50,000 workers nationwide for Disney, Aeropostale and four other
U.S. retailers are expected to get an early holiday present from their employers
-- new agreements to end on-call work shift scheduling.

A coalition of state attorneys general said Tuesday that Carter's, David's Tea,
PacSun and Zumiez also have said they will stop the practice, which typically
requires employees to phone in shortly before a scheduled work shift to find out
whether they will be assigned to work that day.

Additionally, Carter's, Disney, David's Tea and Zumiez committed to giving
employees their work scheduled at least one week in advance of the workweek, the
state officials said.

"On-call shifts are not a business necessity and should be a thing of the past,"
said New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, who characterized the
procedure as unfair. "People should not have to keep the day open, arrange for
child care, and give up other opportunities without being compensated for their
time."

The agreements followed an April letter sent to retailers by the attorneys
general of California, Connecticut, the District of Columbia, Illinois,
Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New York and Rhode Island, all Democrats.

Workers assigned to shifts by call-in scheduling "encounter obstacles in
pursuing an education, and in general experience higher incidences of adverse
health effects, overall stress, and strain on family life than workers who enjoy
the stability of knowing their schedules reasonably in advance," the letter
said.

At least 10% of the U.S. workforce has on-call or irregular work schedules and
an additional 7% work split or rotating shifts, according to a 2015 report by
the Economic Policy Institute, a non-profit, non-partisan think tank focused on
including the needs of low- to middle-income workers. The lowest-income U.S.
workers have the most irregular job schedules, the study found.

State and local officials in roughly a dozen jurisdictions across the nation
have focused on the issue by introducing regulations that would restrict on-call
shift scheduling, according to the National Retail Federation, the world's
largest retail trade organization.

"NRF believes government intervention in the scheduling of employees through a
one-size-fits-all approach intrudes on the employer-employee relationship and
creates unnecessary mandates on how a business should operate," the organization
states on its website.

However, the New York Attorney General's office has regularly collected
underpayments from employers by enforcing a New York "call on pay' regulation.
The rule says employees who report for work by request or permission of their
bosses must be paid for at least four hours at the minimum hourly wage.

In 2015, retailers Abercrombie & Fitch,  Urban Outfitters, Pier 1 Imports and L
Brands, the parent firm of Victoria's Secret, and Bath & Body Works agreed with
Schneiderman to end assignments of on-call shifts.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             358 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Automakers see big buyer response to luxury pickups

BYLINE: Chris Woodyard, @ChrisWoodyard, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 510 words


When it comes to status symbols, the dressed-up luxury pickup truck is fighting
its way back to the top in the automotive world.

Driven by cheap fuel, a surging economy and a rising stock market, more buyers
are willing to pay as much for a richly appointed truck as they would a fancy
Mercedes-Benz or Lexus sedan.

The latest evidence of the luxe-truck phenomenon comes from Ford, which says
that 71% of buyers in November opted for the higher grades of its new Super Duty
heavy-duty pickup. Those trucks range from the F-250 Lariat with a starting
price of $45,105 up to the F-250 King Ranch at $54,260 -- and prices can go a
lot higher when options are added.

Ford had forecast the mix would be about 50-50 when the new Super Duty was
launched, says Doug Scott, Ford's Truck Group marketing manager. As a result, he
adds that executives are "pleasantly surprised" at the results.

General Motors, with deluxe pickups in its Chevrolet and GMC division, and Fiat
Chrysler, with its Ram pickups, say they've also seen strong buyer response to
their highest-end pickups.

America's love affair with pickups is still largely a domestic phenomenon, with
Detroit's Big 3 holding big sales leads. The Ford F-Series pickup was the most
popular new vehicle of any kind sold in the first 11 months of the year, as it
always has been in the past. The Chevrolet Silverado follows in second and Fiat
Chrysler Ram 1500 is third. It isn't until fourth place that a car shows up, the
Toyota Camry, according to Autodata.

The high-end pickup trend is significant because both light and heavy-duty
trucks are among the most profitable vehicles on a dealer's lot. They are
generally less complex to make than cars, which adds to their profitability. And
sales of them have done well all year.

Large pickup sales were up 9.3% in November even as overall industry sales were
up 3.7%, Autodata reports. So far this year, large pickup sales have risen 3%
compared to last year against overall industry sales that have been flat.

But what's more significant is the action at the high end, where the profits and
prestige are the biggest.

"Luxury half-tons will continue to sell well and make huge profits," predicts
Mark Williams, editor of PickupTrucks.com. He says the segment is "definitely
getting hotter," driven by safety and technology improvements.

High-priced trucks were popular early in the past decade when pickups
increasingly became used as family vehicles, not just weekend haulers. But then
came the gas-price crunch and recession. Both took the sheen off truck sales.
Families returned to cars, leaving many pickups to more practical uses as work
trucks or strictly for hauling.

Now the equation has shifted again, with trucks being given softer, more
car-like rides and equipped with many of the features found on luxury cars. They
include real leather and wood in the cabs, safety systems like lane-departure
warnings and fancy high-tech touches that, in the case of Ford, include a
rear-view camera system that lets drivers back their trucks right up to their
trailer hitches.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Ford

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             359 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Sex in space: For Lawrence and Pratt, things went bump in the night;
In 'Passengers,' their travelers had 90 years to kill -- awkwardly

BYLINE: Bryan Alexander, @BryAlexand, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 484 words


Things can get bumpy making a space romance.

Chris Pratt and Jennifer Lawrence found this out  as they explored their
characters' intergalactic relationship for the sci-fi adventure Passengers (in
theaters Wednesday).

Right away, they had to overcome kiss-prohibiting spacesuits.

After an out-of-this-world first date (they went spacewalking) for Lawrence's
Aurora Lane and Pratt's Jim Preston, the two went in for the couple's first
screen kiss. Just like in the script. But the bulky spacesuit chest plates
prevented lip-lock.

"We didn't know that was going to happen. So they called 'action.' And we went
to kiss. And it was like, Donk! Donk!" says Lawrence, re-creating the sound of
knocking spacesuits. "Our heads couldn't reach each other. We had a good laugh
about it, and we incorporated it into the movie."

Scenes that take place before the romance starts were almost simple for the
charismatic super-duo, who join forces onscreen for the first time in
Passengers. Stranded together on a spaceship when their sleep pods malfunction,
waking them up 90 years before they reach their destination, the characters make
the best of a bad situation -- grooving on a Dance Machine game and enjoying the
ship's droid-manned restaurants, basketball court and gorgeous Art Deco bar.

"That portion was the most natural and fun," Pratt says. "When these two
characters are falling for each other, enjoying each other's company, it was
easy acting."

But when the romance kicked in, it got tougher -- such as a scene in which
Aurora knocks over a cafeteria meal and crawls across the tiny table to Pratt
for impromptu lovemaking. Looks sexy onscreen; not so much on the set. Though
Lawrence, who's known for some klutzy moments, had no problem  navigating the
table.

"That's not a problem when I'm horny," Lawrence snorts. "Sorry."

"She is a lioness," Pratt concurs.

"I just kept thinking it was a waste of food," she says.

Pratt says these highly technical scenes were shot in small sections and weren't
fun. Especially "weird" was a moment, cut from the movie, when he was charged
with rocking the table to give the illusion of carnal activity for the cameras
panning down.

"So I was sitting there at the table eating," Lawrence says.

Pratt: "I was surfing on the table, trying to simulate some sort of sex."

Lawrence: "Sex scenes are the most unsexy things in the world."

One part of Passengers was as sexy during as it is onscreen: Pratt's derrière,
fully exposed in a shower scene.

"I was pretty proud of that. It was like, 'Yeah,'" Pratt says of his hard-earned
hard bottom.

He's all about staying in great shape to look and feel healthy, "but there's a
slightly more intense motivation for working out, which is to look good naked,"
he says. "That's much harder to do, it's harder to maintain, and, honestly, not
probably worth it for what's required.

"Unless you're going to be in a film in front of millions of people."

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jaimie Trueblood

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             360 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

19th-century stargazers broke the 'Glass' ceiling;
Dava Sobel writes of female Harvard 'computers' who developed standards still
used today

BYLINE: Matt Damsker, Special for USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 541 words


It's a welcome coincidence that Dava Sobel's new book, The Glass Universe, comes
in the wake of another recent book -- and forthcoming movie -- Margot Lee
Shetterly's Hidden Figures. Shetterly tells the little-known story of the
African-American women who worked as mathematicians for NASA in the 1960s,
computing the rocket trajectories that would launch the late John Glenn into
orbit and solidify America's space program.

It's a history rich in social and feminist relevance, given that Shetterly's
heroines worked under the segregationist Jim Crow laws of the day.

Set almost a century earlier, The Glass Universe (Viking, 266 pp., ***1/2 out of
four) is Sobel's unintended prequel and parallel to Shetterly's tale. Both books
address the conquest of outer space from the perspective of the unsung women who
helped make it possible in a white man's world.

Sobel's heroines are the privileged yet cloistered 19th-century women who also
toiled as "computers" -- that was the word for them in the mid-1800s as well as
in the 1960s -- at the Harvard College Observatory. There they were employed to
interpret the glass photographic plates of stars made by telescope each night.

This glass universe of some half a million plates was the basis for important
scientific discoveries, many of them made by the unsung women Sobel introduces.
Gifted and diligent, they developed classification systems for the stars, along
with spectroscopic analyses of starlight -- in all its constituent colors --
that revealed key truths about the composition of heavenly bodies. They also
helped to establish a scale for measuring distances across space, laying a
foundation for the calculations of space travel.

Sobel -- a former New York Times science reporter, and the author of several
books on astronomy -- traces a remarkable line in American female achievement,
beginning with a New York heiress, Anna Palmer Draper, who helped her husband,
Henry Draper, pioneer the pursuit of astrophotography. After his death in 1882,
she brought his scientific legacy, many of his glass plates, and financial
support to Professor Edward Pickering of the Harvard observatory.

Constrained by budgets and a shortage of available male workers, Pickering had
hired and encouraged a young staff of female enthusiasts and students. "Was it
usual, Mrs. Draper wondered, to employ women as computers? No, Pickering told
her, as far as he knew the practice was unique to Harvard. ... While it would be
unseemly, Pickering conceded, to subject a lady to the fatigue, not to mention
the cold in winter, of telescope observing, women with a knack for figures could
be accommodated in the computing room..."

While Sobel is prone to scientific description that may confuse the less
attentive reader, she captures the stalwart spirit of Pickering's female finds
-- especially standouts such as Annie Jump Cannon, who perfected Henry Draper's
star classification (it's still in regular use), and Antonia Maury, who
discerned the patterns of close-together stars.

They established a tradition that would culminate in 1956, when Dr. Cecilia
Payne became the first female professor of Astronomy at Harvard. Inspired by her
sisters in science, she broke the glass ceiling while reaching for the stars.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Mia Berg

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             361 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

McCaffrey does what's best for him - and that's OK

BYLINE: nauerbach@, usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 460 words


For each of the last two seasons, running back Christian McCaffrey has led his
team in rushing and receiving while accounting for more than 6,000 all-purpose
yards. The argument that he is not a team player is simply unfounded.

Yet that's the reaction some -- albeit  hopefully the minority in the college
football community -- had to the news McCaffrey would skip the Sun Bowl and
begin preparations for the NFL draft: That he wasn't a team player and wasn't
loyal to his Stanford team.

That's ridiculous. McCaffrey was Stanford for the last two seasons.

It's time to allow him an opportunity to cash in on his phenomenal college
career, fully healthy and fully focused on the future.

And the same courtesy should extend to LSU's Leonard Fournette, who announced he
was skipping the Citrus Bowl to prepare for the draft as well. Fournette was not
100% healthy at any point this season because of a lingering ankle injury
suffered before the season, yet he rushed for 843 yards and eight touchdowns in
seven games.

It's worth pausing here to point out an important similarity between McCaffrey
and Fournette: They are running backs.

No other amateur athlete is as affected by simply participating in his sport as
a college running back. The heavy beating on almost every play and his total
number of carries can directly affect the length of a running back's NFL career.
It's not just a meaningless lower-tier bowl game if it still requires the wear
and tear of 30 carries.

Beyond that, the risk of a serious injury is real. Last season in the Fiesta
Bowl, Notre Dame star linebacker Jaylon Smith tore left anterior cruciate and
medial collateral ligaments in the first quarter. The injury and uncertainty
about what kind of player he could be when he returned from the injury cost
Smith millions in the draft; a potential top-five talent went in the second
round, to the Dallas Cowboys.

That's the thing with college stars: They haven't made real money yet. They
haven't been compensated their market value yet. They've received the bare
minimum, a scholarship and cost of attendance stipend, though they've made their
schools and coaches millions. Coaches -- by the way -- are free to leave their
teams before the playing of bowl games to advance their own careers and often do
so without criticism.

For college stars, their money is tied to their futures. Futures that can be
affected enormously by a big hit or an awkward fall in a rather insignificant
bowl game. Futures that can be affected significantly by a heavy workload and
the punishing tackles that come along with it. Futures that aren't set in stone.

Perhaps it's too soon to call what McCaffrey and Fournette decided to do a
legitimate trend. But it's not too soon to say it's absolutely the right choice.


LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jennifer Buchanan, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             362 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Gunman kills Russian envoy;
Turkish police officer opens fire in what officials call 'act of terrorism'

BYLINE: John Bacon, @jmbacon, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 493 words


A well-dressed Turkish police officer opened fire at an art event in Ankara on
Monday, killing the Russian ambassador to Turkey and shouting "God is great" as
panicked witnesses scrambled for cover.

Andrei Karlov was shot multiple times while making a speech at the opening of a
photo exhibit, "Russia Through the Eyes of Turks." Three others were wounded in
the attack, Turkish authorities said.

Police shot and killed the gunman, identified as 22-year-old police officer
Mevlüt Mert Altintas.

Russian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova described the attack as an
"act of terrorism."

"This is a tragic day in the history of Russian diplomacy," Zakharova said.

The attacker shouted "Allahu Akbar," Arabic for "God is great." He also shouted
other phrases, mostly in Turkish, according to Turkey's Hurriyet Daily News:
"Don't forget Aleppo! Don't forget Syria! As long as our brothers are not safe,
you will not enjoy safety. ... Whoever has a share in this oppression will pay
for it one-by-one. ... Only death will take me away from here."

Russia and Turkey have been key players in Syria's civil war that has raged for
nearly six years. Russia has provided support for Syrian troops that bombarded
rebel-held sections of Aleppo for months, creating a humanitarian crisis in the
city. Both nations have worked on a plan to allow for evacuation of rebel
neighborhoods.

Turkish Interior Minister Suleyman Soylu said Altintas had spent more than two
years with a riot police unit in Ankara, the Turkish capital.

Chilling photographs from the scene show Karlov lying on the ground while the
gunman -- dressed in a suit, gun drawn -- stands over him. Moments later the
killer was fatally shot by Turkish special forces.

"We are currently in contact with Turkish authorities who are assuring us that a
thorough, comprehensive investigation will be conducted," Zakharova said.

Karlov, 62, was a longtime diplomat dating back to Soviet days. He began his
career in 1976, and spent most of the next quarter-century representing his
country in North Korea or South Korea. He was appointed ambassador to Turkey in
2013.

The White House and State Department condemned the attack and extended
condolences  to Karlov's family, the Russian government and the Russian people.

President-elect Donald Trump also offered condolences to Karlov's relatives.
"The murder of an ambassador is a violation of all rules of civilized order and
must be universally condemned," Trump said in a statement.

"This heinous attack on a member of the diplomatic corps is unacceptable, and we
stand united with Russia and Turkey in our determination to confront terrorism
in all of its forms," National Security Council spokesman Ned Price said.

Secretary of State John Kerry offered U.S. assistance to Russia and Turkey "as
they investigate this despicable attack, which was also an assault on the right
of all diplomats to safely and securely advance and represent their nations
around the world."

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo photos by Burhan Ozbilici, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             363 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Hold off on anointing Patriots defense;
Bucs QB Winston bearing unfair share of blame

BYLINE: Lorenzo Reyes, @LorenzoGReyes, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 1188 words


There are two weeks left in the NFL's regular season, and the holidays might not
be happy for every team. But with just four playoff berths clinched, there's
room for plenty of shifting.

Here are five overreactions we're pushing back on after Week15:

The Patriots have  the NFL's best defense

Statistically speaking, the New England Patriots allow the fewest points in the
NFL at 16.6 per game.

Sunday's 16-3 victory against the Denver Broncos showed that the Patriots have a
capable defense -- one that has played well in spots this season -- and one that
shouldn't prevent them from being Super Bowl contenders. And that's surprising
after the team traded defensive end Chandler Jones to the Arizona Cardinals this
offseason and sent linebacker Jamie Collins to the Cleveland Browns in October.

It's difficult to believe New England's defense is better off without Jones and
Collins. But the addition of linebacker Kyle Van Noy and the emergence of
linebacker Elandon Roberts and defensive end Trey Flowers have the unit playing
above the level of the the sum of its parts.

But New England's defense has been propped up recently by a weaker schedule. The
Patriots have faced the offensively challenged San Francisco 49ers, New York
Jets, Los Angeles Rams and Broncos in four of the last five weeks. And in those
games, New England allowed 11.8 points per game.

So do the Patriots have one of the top defenses in the league?

The Seattle Seahawks remain one of the most talented units, even with safety
Earl Thomas out with a broken leg. The honor, then, might have to go to the New
York Giants. In the last two weeks, the Giants have limited the fourth-ranked
scoring offense of the Dallas Cowboys to seven points and the capable Detroit
Lions to six. New York has not allowed a touchdown in the last 24 possessions.

And even with defensive end Jason Pierre-Paul recovering from a sports hernia,
the Giants have an active pass rush, stout run defense and playmaking secondary.
Headed into the postseason, the Giants might be sleepers to make a run.

Winston isn't ready  to lead a playoff run

Let's start by acknowledging that Sunday was not Jameis Winston's best game.

In a 26-20 loss to the Cowboys, the Tampa Bay Buccaneers second-year quarterback
turned the ball over four times and came up short in his attempt to lead a
game-winning drive.

Although Winston made poor decisions on some throws, all the blame for this loss
cannot be heaped solely on him.

Tampa Bay's offensive line made Dallas defensive end David Irving -- a player
signed off of the Kansas City Chiefs practice squad -- look like the second
coming of DeMarcus Ware. Irving had two sacks, and he disrupted the Bucs offense
enough to throw off the timing of plays. The Cowboys sacked Winston four times.

Two of those led to fumbles by Winston, one of which he lost.

Tampa Bay fell to 8-6 but remains alive in the NFC South and wild-card races.

The Bucs defense is the strength of the team, and it went toe-to-toe with one of
the best teams in the NFL. As long as Winston protects the ball, the Bucs should
continue to be dangerous down the stretch.

The Titans are  real contenders

The Tennessee Titans have made strides, having won three in a row, the last two
vs. the Broncos (8-6) and Chiefs (10-4).

With a power rushing game, the emergence of quarterback Marcus Mariota and a
defense that makes plays when it has to, the Titans are a young team that can
compete in the AFC South and make the playoffs for the first time since 2008.

Though Sunday's 19-17 win at Arrowhead against the Chiefs might look like a
signature win, this was more about Kansas City letting an opportunity slip away.

On two occasions, the Chiefs had the ball inside the Tennessee 10-yard line.

The first came in the second quarter when running back Spencer Ware was stuffed
on a fourth-and-goal rush from the 1. The second came in the third quarter when
quarterback Alex Smith threw an ill-advised interception in the end zone to
cornerback LeShaun Sims.

As if that wasn't bad enough, the Chiefs were gifted a golden opportunity when
the Titans scored a late touchdown and attempted a two-point conversion that
failed, rather than try the extra point to tie the score.

Kansas City then held a one-point lead, and all it had to do was milk the clock.
It went three-and-out.

Give the Titans credit. They did enough to win in a tough environment. But their
days of challenging the AFC's power brokers might be a year or two away.

After firing Bradley, the Jags should blow it up

The Jacksonville Jaguars squandered another opportunity and sank to 2-12. So
much for those preseason playoff hopes.

After the game, the team announced it had fired coach Gus Bradley but that
general manager Dave Caldwell would "be charged with exploring all options to
hire the best head coach possible." That indicated Jacksonville would not be
rebuilding its entire power structure, a wise decision.

Caldwell has stocked the roster with young and dynamic playmakers, including
wideout Allen Robinson, cornerback Jalen Ramsey and defensive end Dante Fowler.
There have been misses, but the roster is in much better shape than it was years
ago. Caldwell deserves credit for that.

The market is small, expectations have been low, ownership has been patient and
there's plenty of talent in place.

The Jaguars job is a solid role, one that could serve a number of
offensive-minded candidates.

The biggest concern moving forward is for the next coach to solve the Blake
Bortles quandary.

The third-year passer has regressed, completing 57.8% of his throws with 21
touchdown passes vs. 16 interceptions. Mostly to blame is his elongated windup.

That project could intrigue offensive coordinators such as Kyle Shanahan of the
Atlanta Falcons and Josh McDaniels of the Patriots.

And while the transition could prevent Jacksonville from competing in the AFC
South next season, there are plenty of pieces in place to make the Jaguars
contenders again.

Benching Osweiler was  a short-term move

Despite the massive contract the Houston Texans gave quarterback Brock Osweiler
over the offseason, it's looking like Houston will have a backup quarterback
down the stretch who is making an average of $18 million over the next four
seasons.

Osweiler struggled again Sunday, and coach Bill O'Brien eventually benched him
in favor of third-year pro Tom Savage.

O'Brien said Monday that Savage would start the Week 16 game against the
Cincinnati Bengals.

Savage, who faced a 13-point deficit when he replaced Osweiler, led Houston to a
21-20 victory against Jacksonville, completing 63.9% of his passes for 260
yards.

Savage was decisive and accurate. He avoided mistakes. He cycled through his
reads. He didn't turn it over. These are all things Osweiler has struggled with,
especially in recent weeks.

The Texans are tied atop the AFC South with the Titans at 8-6. The two meet in
Week 17.

"We don't make decisions based on how much a guy gets paid," O'Brien said
afterward. "We make decisions on what's the best way to win a game."

O'Brien made his short-term decision, but the franchise needs to make another
decision in the offseason about its quarterbacks.

Stay tuned.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Isaiah J. Downing, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             364 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Ohio State's Meyer loves walk-ons;
Coach carves out niche for guys on periphery

BYLINE: Paul Myerberg, @paulmyerberg, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 1019 words


Most student-athletes at Ohio State entered the football program as high-profile
recruits, with the vast majority opting for the Buckeyes over offers from a
veritable who's-who of the sport's elite -- including Clemson, the opponent in
the Fiesta Bowl.

Ohio State's recruiting success since Urban Meyer's arrival in the winter of
2011 bears out this point. During this span, according to composite rankings
compiled by 247Sports.com, the Buckeyes have reeled in five signing classes in a
row ranked in the top seven nationally, with this group providing the backbone
of a program aiming for its second national title in three years.

But there are those, such as senior Joe Burger, who elected for a
non-traditional route. Burger, a backup middle linebacker and key special-teams
contributor, turned down scholarship offers from several Mid-American Conference
programs to walk on at Ohio State.

The walk-on path is, after all, a family tradition. Burger's father, two uncles
and an older brother were walk-ons at Notre Dame; his father, Bob, began as the
seventh-string center during his first day on campus before becoming a starter
during his senior year.

"My goal was, I always wanted to play football at the highest level and compete
for a championship," Joe Burger said. "I just thought this was the right place
to be."

Next for duo: Med school

Quarterback J.T. Barrett is the face of Ohio State's football roster; others,
such as linebacker Raekwon McMillan and safety Malik Hooker, are undisputed
college standouts likely destined to continue their careers on Sundays, as the
next crop of stars to parade the Buckeyes' flag through the upcoming NFL draft.
In comparison, the next stop for Burger and fellow walk-on linebacker Craig Fada
is medical school.

But in their own way, players such as Burger and Fada have notched an equally
impressive feat: Both have lettered four times as walk-ons, an achievement so
unheard of that, to the best of Ohio State's knowledge, it stands unmatched in
the program's history.

"I'm kind of disappointed in those two guys. They're just typical losers," Meyer
cracked. "I'm trying to talk them into coaching, and this darn med school keeps
getting in the way. That's a tough one, to say goodbye to those guys."

Even at Ohio State, where the depth chart teems and nearly overflows with
five-star talent, the important role played by Burger, Fada and the rest of the
Buckeyes walk-ons -- including kicker Tyler Durbin, an all-Big Ten Conference
pick -- cannot be overstated.

"Those guys are the foundation for this team," senior center Pat Elflein said.

The most noticeable impact of Ohio State's walk-on program can be felt on the
scout team, a group of non-starters and little-used reserves tasked with
imitating the Buckeyes' upcoming opponent. Leading into the Fiesta Bowl, for
example, many walk-ons will be tasked with replicating, to the best of their
abilities, the varied talents of Clemson's offense and defense.

"They help us get better every day," junior offensive tackle Jamarco Jones said.
"You might not know who they are, but they go out there and bust their butt just
to try and make the team better. And not get any recognition for it, really.
It's just kind of humbling to see that those guys are willing to do that."

Quite a process

Each offseason, in addition to the coaching staff's normal recruiting efforts,
Ohio State digs through game film to find between five and seven preferred
walk-on prospects. In nearly every case, these are high schools stars either not
quite strong enough, quick enough or athletic enough to be given scholarship
offers -- though, as with Burger, most receive attention from lower-tier
Football Bowl Subdivision programs.

"We recruit them," Meyer said, which is true. Ohio State approaches the walk-on
process in a similar vein as its normal evaluation process, eyeballing and
rating potential student-athletes for their ability to add value to the
Buckeyes' championship credentials -- a process repeated at most programs across
college football.

Eventually, the plan is to matriculate these walk-ons, as Meyer put it, to
special teams. Burger, for example, spent his true freshman season holding
blocking bags; by his redshirt sophomore year, he began to be an integral cog on
the Buckeyes' coverage and kicking teams, even making a key punt block in last
season's narrow win against Indiana.

"You realize you're way onto the field is on special teams," Burger said.
"You're not going to have a whole lot of recognition, but you just try to have
fun, play as hard as you can and make a difference in the game.

"You're not going to start out as the highest-ranked, but if you do the right
things day in and day out, we believe that we'll get rewarded and you'll get
what you deserve."

But the bigger difference, perhaps, is felt off the field. Walk-ons aren't
unique to Ohio State, obviously, but there's something deeply meaningful about
the idea that non-scholarship players can carve out impactful roles among the
many NFL-bound players littering the roster -- that walk-ons will pay their own
way to be beaten up, knocked down and used as "a scout-team dummy," in Burger's
words, despite the slim chance of cracking a supremely talented depth chart.

It's a fact that even the team's stars notice. "It's impressive to see that,"
Elflein said.

"Especially at a program like this, with how tough it is, with the amount of
hours you have to put in. And you're not getting anything for it, you're just
doing it out of pride and for the love of the game."

Meyer, a walk-on defensive back at Cincinnati while playing baseball in the
Atlanta Braves organization in the 1980s, uses his walk-on players as examples:
Fada's and Burger's efforts were rewarded with scholarships as fifth-year
seniors, with Meyer highlighting their under-the-radar, under-recognized efforts
as the backup singers for the Buckeyes' starring cast.

"There's a special place in my heart for those guys," he said. "I will give them
a better opportunity than a scholarship kid. If it's close, I'm taking the
walk-on. I've always been that way. I just appreciate guys like that."

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Joe Maiorana, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             365 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

China smog clogs Human, Jet airways;
23 cities on red alert with unparalleled pollution

BYLINE: John Bacon, @jmbacon, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 376 words


Major cities across northern China choked Monday under a blanket of smog so
thick that industries were ordered shut down and air and ground traffic was
disrupted. At least 23 cities issued red alerts for a swath of pollution that
has hovered over much of the nation since Friday, China's Xinhua News Agency
reported. Alerts are expected to remain in effect through Wednesday.

Hospitals set up emergency procedures to deal with an influx of
breathing-related illnesses.

Large hospitals in the port city of Tianjin, less than 100 miles southeast of
Beijing, saw a surge in asthma and other respiratory issues, China's People's
Daily reported. The pollution forced the city to close the highways and caused
delays and cancellations for dozens of flights, Xinhua said.

"Off-the-charts air pollution chokes many places in #Hebei province, w/ PM2.5
levels exceeding 1,000 in its capital city of #Shijiazhuang," the People's Daily
tweeted. Some coal and other industrial plants in Hebei were ordered closed
until the smog eases.

Beijing's meteorological authority told Agence France-Presse the worst haze
would hit the city Monday night and linger until Tuesday. Under a contingency
plan for severe air pollution, the city shut down more than 700 heavy-industry
plants and required 500 more to reduce production, the South China Morning Post
reported.

Dangerous smog levels are a recurring theme for Beijing and other major Chinese
cities struggling to balance  needed industrial growth with environmental
concerns. Much of the pollution is blamed on coal burning for electricity, and
smog levels often are worse in winter when cold weather drives up energy use.

This month, Beijing officials caused a stir when a draft of the Beijing
Meteorological Disasters Prevention and Control Regulations defined smog as a
meteorological disaster mainly caused by haze, blizzards or unfavorable
meteorological conditions.

"'Meteorological disasters' are caused by natural conditions and cannot be
controlled by human activity," Zhang Zitai, a Fudan University professor, told
Legal Daily. "Smog, on the other hand, is mainly caused by human activity. Thus
the plan to list it as a meteorological disaster not only goes against science,
it will also create an excuse for polluters."

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Wu Hong, European Pressphoto Agency

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             366 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

FIFA officials send mixed messages on Russia;
Losing 2018 Cup unlikely; doping probe initiated

BYLINE: Martin Rogers, @mrogersUSAT, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 430 words


FIFA President Gianni Infantino appeared to guarantee Russia's status as host of
the 2018 World Cup on Monday, even as soccer's global governing body opened a
preliminary investigation into claims of state-sponsored doping offenses.

Calls have grown in recent days for Russia to be stripped of its right to host
the event after the release of details contained in the second McLaren report
commissioned by the World Anti-Doping Agency.

The report included emails allegedly proving that drug test samples given by
Russian youth national team players had been concealed by a government-backed
laboratory.

However, Infantino indicated in an interview with the German newspaper Der
Spiegel that pulling the event was not an option.

"Boycotts and bans have never solved any problems," said Infantino, who won the
FIFA presidency in February after the ouster of Sepp Blatter.

FIFA has received evidence from WADA that directly pertains to its soccer
findings and is looking into links between the doping infractions and Vitaly
Mutko, a prominent Russian politician.

Mutko was Vladimir Putin's minister for sport at the time Russia was awarded the
World Cup and also during the height of the alleged doping coverup. He has since
been promoted to deputy prime minister and remains a member of the FIFA council.

"FIFA is now reviewing the evidence provided by WADA after the final McLaren
report, and based on this information FIFA will take the appropriate next steps
in accordance with the anti-doping regulations," FIFA said in a statement
released Monday.

Two FIFA officials told USA TODAY Sports earlier Monday that the investigation
could have a serious impact on Russia's World Cup plans. However, both said
later that without the support of Infantino, any move to retract hosting rights
was likely unworkable.

The officials requested anonymity because they were not authorized to publicly
discuss the investigation.

The McLaren report showed that players from Russia's under-21 national team had
results of suspicious samples covered up. Some of those players have gone on to
play for the senior Russian national team.

Taking the World Cup away from Russia would create a difficult but not
impossible dilemma for FIFA. With 18 months remaining before the tournament,
there would still be time to find a replacement host, likely a major soccer
nation with appropriate stadiums and infrastructure in place.

Infantino though, seems to be steadfastly against it.

"FIFA is no police and certainly not the world doping police," Infantino said.
"FIFA is the international governing body for football."

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Ivan Sekretarev, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             367 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

The most polluted city? It's not in China Top Five Polluted cities

BYLINE: John Bacon, @jmbacon, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 272 words


While Beijing smothered Monday under a cloud of smog and a reputation for
horrible air, other cities in the world quietly vie for the tarnished crown of
world's most polluted city. Zabol  Iran

This year's winner: Zabol, Iran.

Beijing and much of northeastern China are  shrouded in a smog red alert,
causing some factories to shut down, highways to close and airlines to cancel
flights. But the World Health Organization ranks the world's cities based on air
pollution, and the worst Chinese city, Xingtai,  ranks only ninth on the 2016
list.

217

WHO's ranking, released in May, is based on the amount of PM 2.5 -- particle
matter smaller than 2.5 microns in diameter common to dust, soot and smoke. PM
2.5 is nasty because it can get stuck in the lungs and cause or aggravate asthma
and other long-term health problems.

micrograms

WHO guidelines call for no more than 10 micrograms of PM 2.5 per cubic meter of
air. Dusty Zabol averages a whopping 217. Other cities cracking the top five:
Gwalior, India, at 176; Allahabad, India, at 170; Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, at 156;
and Al Jubail, Saudi Arabia, at 152. Beijing suffered Monday at levels hovering
above 200; other Chinese cities have pushed close to 1,000 recently.

Gwalior India

The tide can be turned.  2015's most polluted city, New Delhi, slid to 11 in
2016 after a crackdown that included bans on the most polluting cars and trucks
and fines for for burning trash.

176

Breathe easier, America. The worst U.S. city didn't crack WHO's top 1,000.
Visalia, Calif., checked in at 1,080.

micrograms

Allahabad India

170

micrograms

Riyadh Saudi Arabia

156

micrograms

Al Jubail Saudi Arabia

152

micrograms

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Sanjay Kanojia, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             368 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Protect young gymnasts from pedophile coaches

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 519 words


USA Gymnastics, one of the most prominent Olympic governing bodies in the
nation, basked in the glow of Team USA's stunning performance in Rio de Janeiro
last August.

But beneath the glittering image of the sport and its governing body, which
inspires girls across the country to train as gymnasts, is a dark underbelly,
revealed in an investigation by the IndyStar and USA TODAY Network.

Over the past 20 years, 368 gymnasts have alleged some form of sexual abuse at
the hands of coaches, gym owners and other adults working in youth gymnastics
across the country, the network reported last week. Yet, until reporters dug
into it, no one had tracked these cases long buried in police and court files.

If any of this sounds sickeningly familiar, it's because it is. Abuse scandals
in the Roman Catholic Church, in the Boy Scouts and at Penn State share some of
the same issues: failures to report disturbing allegations to law enforcement, a
penchant for secrecy, and predators who slither from job to job that provides
access to children, leaving a trail of misery behind.

One pedophile gymnastics coach faced charges twice and was repeatedly fired, but
he still managed to work in a dozen gyms in four states until he was caught by
the FBI in Florida. He was ultimately accused of inappropriate conduct with 16
girls over two decades and is now serving a 20-year federal sentence.

In a statement, USA Gymnastics said that if it "suspects sexual abuse, the
organization encourages those involved to contact law enforcement and/or
contacts law enforcement directly."

Well, maybe officials need to work on what it takes to raise their suspicions.

In 1998, for instance, a Florida gym owner wrote to USA Gymnastics that he had
fired coach Bill McCabe two years earlier after McCabe was bragging that he "had
one of the 15-year-old cheerleaders in her underwear and said he thought he'd be
able to (have sex with) her very soon." McCabe, the owner wrote, should be
"locked in a cage before someone is raped."

USA Gymnastics' reply? "I am awaiting an official letter of complaint from a
parent and athlete. I will add your letter to the file."

McCabe continued to coach for seven years, until the mother of an 11-year-old
Georgia gymnast went to the FBI. He pleaded guilty to federal charges in 2006
and is serving a 30-year sentence.

In a civil lawsuit filed by the Georgia mother, USA Gymnastics argued that it
wasn't required to report under laws in Florida or Indiana, home to its
headquarters, because the laws require reporting by individuals, not
organizations.

Really? We thought organizations were made up of individuals.

We'll leave the legal hairsplitting to the courts, but at least one lesson
should have been learned after nearly two decades of sexual abuse scandals:
Institutions and individuals working with children are morally bound to report
disturbing allegations of potential child abuse to law enforcement. Otherwise,
no matter how unintentionally, they enable abuse to continue.

That's true whether they are Catholic bishops, university officials, gym owners
or leaders of a prominent Olympics' organization.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Kyle Terada, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             369 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Story stocks

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 147 words


Virtu Financial

Change

-$0.65

% chg

-4.0%

Price: $15.55

Day's high: $16.30

Low: $15.55

President-elect Trump nominated the financial company's founder, Vincent Viola,
to be secretary of the Army. He served in an Airborne Ranger infantry and was a
former chairman of the New York Mercantile Exchange. He will oversee 473,000
soldiers.

Boeing

Change

$1.68

%chg

1.1%

Price: $156.18

Day's high: $157.10

Low: $155.07

The aerospace company warned its workers that there would be more job cuts in
the new year. The total number of cuts is not certain. The buyout will be one
week of pay for every year worked, with a maximum of 26 weeks.

Walt Disney

Change

$1.39

%chg

1.3%

Price: $105.30

Day's high: $106.26

Low: $105.07

The family entertainment company climbed after Rogue One: A Star Wars Story
raked in $155 million in the opening weekend, exceeded the $130 million
expectations. It acquired Lucasfilms in 2012.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             370 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

For DAPL protesters, the fight continues

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 159 words


FACEBOOK

Plans for the Dakota Access Pipeline were suspended, but protesters remain on
the disputed land.

These protesters are fighting for their lives and beliefs. Do folks who are
complaining about them have a better cause to stand for? If you stand for
something, just when do you say you no longer support it?

Jeff Huffman

These people should all be arrested and thrown in jail. They are trespassing.
The engineering studies were done in accordance with the law. They were
approved. Permits were issued. We are a society of law and order and these
people are not respecting that.

Ted Wilke

I can respect a good protest, but this one is contrived! The company made 140
changes in the route of the pipeline.

The tribe that is bent out of shape has a reservation miles away from the
pipeline.

Tony Francis

I'm a retired Navy chief, and those veterans who showed up to protect the Native
American protesters stink. They don't represent what I think.

David Southall

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             371 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

'Wars of the Roosevelts' is a gossipy tale;
William J. Mann finds much to wag about in famous, flawed family

BYLINE: Ray Locker

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 526 words


The Roosevelt family of New York provided America with two of its greatest
presidents, and for author William J. Mann, a vast trove of familial dysfunction
that resembles the plot lines of a 1980s nighttime soap or a Mexican telenovela.

There's Theodore Roosevelt, our 26th president, and his younger brother,
Elliott, who was the father of Eleanor, who married her fifth cousin, Franklin,
and became first lady.

There's Franklin and his nephew, Taddy, who was the ne'er-do-well son of his
much older brother, James Jr.

There's Franklin and his five children, whose antics were the source of constant
presidential concern.

In The Wars of the Roosevelts (Harper, 530 pp., *** out of four), these
rivalries and collisions make for colorful reading. But this is also an account
that's aimed at ratcheting up the melodrama, which Mann, who has specialized in
books about Hollywood, knows how to do well. He takes the Roosevelt story away
from Washington and politics and shows how scores were settled and family
members banished as the two presidents climbed their way to power.

Theodore Roosevelt assumes the brunt of Mann's focus, as he casts the ambitious
and impulsive future president as a cruel taskmaster to his brother.

"For all his desire to be a force for good and for change in the world, the
ironic dichotomy of Theodore Roosevelt would be his often brutal control of his
family and his inability to countenance different worldviews, such as the one
his brother held."

Well, it was a little more complicated than that. It wasn't as if Elliott
Roosevelt and his brother disagreed about the free coining of silver or wildlife
conservation. Elliott was at the very least suffering from bipolar disorder. His
moods pitched from one extreme to another, and he drank too much, cheated on his
wife and fathered at least one child outside his marriage. Elliott was just as
often a danger to himself and others, and his brother's attitude was driven not
just by concern for his political reputation but for the well-being of Elliott's
family.

Despite Mann's often hyperbolic treatment of the Roosevelt family dynamics, his
documentation of their internal strife shows how these troubles shaped the two
presidents and their families. Eleanor and Franklin Roosevelt had a unique
marriage, and their children often suffered because of it. The five Roosevelt
children -- James, Anna, Elliott, Franklin Jr. and John -- burned through
multiple marriages as they sought their own places in life.

The younger Elliott Roosevelt shunned politics, mostly because his parents
embraced it. Unlike Theodore Roosevelt, however, Franklin allowed his son to
find his own path, "even when his choices were increasingly unorthodox."

Concern over those choices, as well as the travails of his other children,
occupied Franklin even as he grappled with the monumental challenges he faced as
president, starting with the Great Depression and continuing into World War II.

While Mann sometimes overdoes the family drama, he shows again that the image
surrounding presidents and their families is often not reality, and that
familial tensions often bleed into public policy in unexpected ways.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jan. 30, 1932, file photo by Associated Press

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BOOK REVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             372 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

COACHES POLL

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 584 words


Men's basketball (times p.m. Eastern)

1. Villanova (11-0)

Points: 796 (28 first-place votes). Previous ranking: 1. Upcoming game:
Wednesday vs. American (FS1, 6:30).

2. UCLA (12-0)

Points: 755 (2). Previous ranking: 2. Upcoming game: Wednesday vs. Western
Michigan (Pac-12, 11).

3. Kansas (10-1)

Points: 712 (1). Previous ranking: 3. Upcoming game: Thursday at UNLV (CBSSN,
9).

4. Duke (11-1)

Points: 688 (1). Previous ranking: 4. Monday's result: Beat Tennessee State
65-55. Upcoming game: Wednesday vs. Elon in Greensboro, N.C. (ESPN2, 6).

5. Kentucky (10-1)

Points: 667. Previous ranking: 7. Upcoming game: Wednesday at No. 11 Louisville
(ESPN, 7).

6. Baylor (11-0)

Points: 658. Previous ranking: 5. Upcoming game: Wednesday vs. Texas Southern.

7. Gonzaga (11-0)

Points: 611. Previous ranking: 8. Upcoming game: Wednesday vs. South Dakota.

8. North Carolina (10-2)

Points: 563. Previous ranking: 6. Upcoming game: Wednesday vs. Northern Iowa
(ESPN2, 8).

9. Creighton (11-0)

Points: 539. Previous ranking: 10. Upcoming game: Tuesday at Arizona State
(ESPN2, 9).

10. Virginia (9-1)

Points: 476. Previous ranking: 12. Upcoming game: Wednesday at California
(ESPN2, 10).

11. Louisville (10-1)

Points: 469. Previous ranking: 11. Upcoming games: Wednesday vs. No. 5 Kentucky
(ESPN, 7).

12. West Virginia (9-1)

Points: 460. Previous ranking: 13. Upcoming games: Tuesday vs. Radford, Friday
vs. Northern Kentucky.

13. Butler (10-1)

Points: 388. Previous ranking: 18. Upcoming game: Wednesday vs. Vermont (FSN,
7).

14. Wisconsin (10-2)

Points: 366. Previous ranking: 14. Upcoming game: Friday vs. Florida A&M (BTN,
8).

15. Purdue (10-2)

Points: 337. Previous ranking: 16. Monday's result: Beat Western Illinois 82-50.
Upcoming game: Wednesday vs. Norfolk State.

16. Indiana (8-2)

Points: 319. Previous ranking: 9. Monday's result: Played Delaware State.
Upcoming game: Thursday vs. Austin Peay.

17. Xavier (9-2)

Points: 295. Previous ranking: 17. Upcoming game: Tuesday vs. Eastern Washington
(FS1, 6:30).

18. Arizona (10-2)

Points: 229. Previous ranking: 19. Upcoming game: Tuesday vs. New Mexico.

19. Saint Mary's (8-1)

Points: 197. Previous ranking: 20. Upcoming games: Tuesday vs. Texas A&M-Corpus
Christi, Thursday vs. South Carolina State.

20. South Carolina (9-1)

Points: 180. Previous ranking: 15. Upcoming game: Wednesday vs. Clemson (ESPNU,
9).

21. Oregon (10-2)

Points: 145. Previous ranking: 22. Upcoming game: Tuesday vs. Fresno State
(Pac-12, 11).

22. Florida State (12-1)

Points: 111. Previous ranking: 23 (tie). Monday's result: Beat Samford 76-68.
Next game: Dec. 28 vs. Wake Forest (ESPN2, 5).

23. Cincinnati (9-2)

Points: 108. Previous ranking: 23 (tie). Upcoming game: Thursday vs. Marshall
(CBSSN, 7).

24. Notre Dame (10-2)

Points: 92. Previous ranking: 21. Monday's result: Beat Colgate 77-62. Next
game: Dec. 28 vs. Saint Peter's.

25. Southern California (10-0)

Points: 88. Previous ranking: 25. Monday's result: Played Cornell. Upcoming
game: Thursday vs. Missouri State (FS1, 11).

Dropped out: None.

Others receiving votes: Florida (8-3) 30; Oklahoma State (9-2) 21; Maryland
(11-1) 20; Arkansas (9-1) 15; Miami (Fla.) (8-2) 13; Virginia Tech (9-1) 8;
California (9-2) 7; Middle Tennessee (10-2) 7; Seton Hall (9-2) 7; Wichita State
(9-3) 7; TCU (10-1) 6; Texas Tech (10-1) 3; Colorado (8-3) 2; Nevada (9-2) 2;
Michigan State (7-5) 1; Minnesota (11-1) 1; Valparaiso (9-2) 1.

The USA TODAY Sports board of coaches is made up of 32 head coaches at Division
I institutions. All are members of the National Association of Basketball
Coaches.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             373 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Three big-time sluggers remain on market;
Nova may be top pitcher available

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 1034 words


In our yearly postseason forecast of where the leading free agents might land, a
panel of six USA TODAY Sports baseball writers and editors had some hits and
misses. All but one predicted Yoenis Cespedes would return to the New York Mets
and Justin Turner to the Los Angeles Dodgers, but not a single one had Ian
Desmond joining the Colorado Rockies or Rich Hill going back to the Dodgers.

Now that much of the field has cleared, we're examining the top remaining free
agents, as Jorge L. Ortiz rubs his crystal ball and hazards educated guesses at
their likely destinations. We'll even throw in a possible trade scenario for
good measure. Just don't take these to your neighborhood bookie to fund
last-minute holiday gifts.

Edwin Encarnacion: Initially regarded as one of the market's most appealing free
agents and a candidate for a nine-figure contract, Encarnacion has seen his
value diminish as possible suitors such as the Boston Red Sox, New York Yankees
and Toronto Blue Jays -- his former employers -- filled their DH vacancies with
cheaper options.

Encarnacion, who turns 34 on Jan. 7, is not strictly limited to DH duties -- he
started 74 games at first base last season -- but he's not an accomplished
defender.

Despite averaging nearly 39 homers and 110 RBI over the last five seasons,
Encarnacion has seen his asking price apparently decrease enough that even the
notoriously penurious Oakland Athletics are looking into making him an offer.
That doesn't seem like much of a fit. A more logical landing place would be the
Cleveland Indians, if Encarnacion were willing to take a shorter deal, or the
Texas Rangers, who could use help at first base and DH.

Jose Bautista: Like his longtime teammate Encarnacion, Bautista is saddled with
draft-pick compensation attached to his signing with a new team. That's one of
the reasons returning to Toronto -- where he developed into a superstar -- would
make sense. Bautista, 36, is coming off a down offensive year, and his defense
in right field has deteriorated. But he still has pop and a keen eye at the
plate (22 homers, 87 walks). He could split time between right field and DH,
with newly acquired Kendrys Morales getting a fair number of starts at first
base.

Other options are less clear. With his defensive shortcomings, Bautista might be
limited to an American League team. The Seattle Mariners need help in the
outfield corners and could plug him in at DH on days that Nelson Cruz plays the
outfield. And Texas could bring him in strictly as a DH, but that would require
a major diplomatic undertaking after the outfielder's clashes with the Rangers
the last two years.

Mark Trumbo: The third and final player on our list tied to draft-pick
compensation, Trumbo seems like such a perfect match with the Baltimore Orioles
that all six of our panelists predicted he would return to Baltimore, where he
blasted a major league-leading 47 homers last season. An agreement hasn't come
to fruition, and Trumbo is said to be seeking a deal in the $75 million range.

With his ability to play first base -- his original position -- and the
outfield, Trumbo could help the Rangers replenish some of the production they
lost when Desmond and Mitch Moreland moved elsewhere. He's more versatile and
younger than Encarnacion, though his track record is not as consistent. The
Rockies have been in pursuit as well, but considering how comfortable Trumbo
felt hitting at cozy Camden Yards, Baltimore seems like the most likely choice.

Ivan Nova: Nova, who turns 30 on Jan. 12, was dumped by the Yankees at the trade
deadline, when he was sporting a 4.90 ERA, his best mark in his last three
seasons as he battled injuries. Under the tutelage of Pittsburgh Pirates
pitching coach Ray Searage, the Pitcher Whisperer, Nova posted a 3.06 ERA over
11 starts and struck out 52 compared with three walks.

Though it's a small sample, those figures likely will translate into a multiyear
deal at an average of at least $10 million a year. A return to the Pirates is
not out of the question, but teams such as the Houston Astros and Minnesota
Twins could be possibilities.

Michael Saunders: The lefty-swinging outfielder had an All-Star-worthy first
half for the Blue Jays but batted .178 after the break. Saunders, 30, also
performed much better vs. lefties, with a .927 on-base-plus-slugging percentage
(OPS) that was 144 points higher than when facing righties, although that hasn't
been a career trend. The Orioles are trying to balance a righty-heavy lineup and
have shown interest in Saunders, but that might hinge on whether they can entice
Trumbo to return. Otherwise, the Indians could be an option.

Luis Valbuena: The stocky infielder averaged 18 home runs and slugged at a .442
clip over the last three seasons, and he does a decent job fielding in the
corners. Valbuena was limited to 90 games last season because of a hamstring
injury but put up a career-best OPS of .816 and has drawn interest from the
Yankees. He also could come in handy for a team such as the Pirates, who might
need depth at the infield corners.

Greg Holland: The onetime dominant closer sat out last season while recovering
from Tommy John elbow surgery. He held a well-attended showcase in November. He
has made it clear he's willing to pitch in a setup capacity, so a number of
teams could be interested. A club such as the Washington Nationals, suddenly
lacking a closer, could take a chance.

Jose Quintana: The rebuilding Chicago White Sox received a king's ransom from
the Red Sox in the trade for Chris Sale and expect a similar package in exchange
for Quintana, an All-Star lefty who doesn't have the same credentials but comes
with an even more team-friendly contract. There's no shortage of suitors for
Quintana, 27, who has pitched at least 200 innings in four consecutive seasons,
each of them with an ERA below 3.55. The Astros are widely regarded as the most
logical trading partner, given their clear need for a top-of-the-rotation
starter and their assortment of high-level prospects, such as outfielder Kyle
Tucker and pitcher Joe Musgrove. The Yankees also have collected the kind of
young talent who would interest the White Sox but might not be willing to part
with it.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo John E. Sokolowski, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             374 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

A deadly day in Turkey and Berlin;
Officer assassinates Russian ambassador

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 105 words


A gunman gestures after fatally shooting Andrei Karlov, the Russian ambassador
to Turkey, during Karlov's speech at a photography exhibition in Ankara, Turkey.
Turkish authorities identified the shooter as Mevlut Mert Altintas, 22, who had
been serving in Ankara's riot police unit for 21/2 years. Altintas was killed by
police.  IN NEWS

Editor's note: USA TODAY rarely publishes photos of gravely injured people. When
we choose to run such a photo, the news value must outweigh the nature of the
image. After discussion, the news team agreed the powerful photo of the wounded
Russian ambassador and his assailant met this criteria.


LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Burhan Ozbilici, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             375 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                FA CHASE EDITION

USA TODAY SPORTS SUPER 25

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 7C

LENGTH: 458 words


High school football

1. Bishop Gorman, Las Vegas (15-0)

Previous (PR): 1. Result: 4A state champion.

2. IMG Academy, Bradenton, Fla. (11-0)

PR: 2. Result: Independent defeated two Super 25 teams and three state champion
teams.

3. DeSoto, Texas (16-0)

PR: 3. Result: QB Shawn Robinson ran for a touchdown and passed for two TDs in a
38-29 win Saturday vs. Steele (Cibolo) in the 6A-II championship game.

4. DeMatha, Hyattsville, Md. (12-0)

PR: 4. Result: Washington Catholic Athletic Conference champion.

5. St. Thomas Aquinas, Fort Lauderdale (12-2)

PR: 5. Result: 7A state champion. Next: Friday vs. No. 12 Bingham (South Jordan,
Utah) in the GEICO State Champions Bowl Series in Frisco, Texas.

6. St. John Bosco, Bellflower, Calif. (13-2)

PR: 6. Result: RB Demetrious Flowers ran for three TDs in a 56-35 win Saturday
in the State Open Division Bowl vs. De La Salle (Concord).

7. Grayson, Loganville, Ga. (14-1)

PR: 7. Result: AAAAAAA state champion.

8. St. Joseph's Prep, Philadelphia (14-0)

PR: 8. Result: 6A state champion.

9. Mater Dei, Santa Ana, Calif. (13-1)

PR: 9. Result: Southern Section Division I finalist.

10. Lake Travis, Austin (15-1)

PR: 13. Result: Charlie Brewer threw four TD passes in a 41-13 win Saturday vs.
The Woodlands in the 6A-I championship game.

11. Centennial, Corona, Calif. (11-2)

PR: 10. Result: Southern Section Division I semifinalist.

12. Bingham, South Jordan, Utah (14-0)

PR: 11. Result: 5A state champion. Next: Friday vs. No. 5 St. Thomas Aquinas
(Fort Lauderdale) in the GEICO State Champions Bowl Series in Frisco, Texas.

13. Roswell, Ga. (14-1)

PR: 12. Result: AAAAAAA state runner-up.

14. American Heritage, Plantation, Fla. (14-0)

PR: 14. Result: 5A state champion.

15. Cass Tech, Detroit (14-0)

PR: 15. Result: Division I state champion.

16. Trinity, Louisville (15-0)

PR: 16. Result: 6A state champion.

17. East St. Louis, Ill. (14-0)

PR: 17. Result: 7A state champion.

18. Saguaro, Scottsdale, Ariz. (14-0)

PR: 18. Result: 4A state champion.

19. Hoover, Ala. (12-2)

PR: 19. Result: 6A State champion.

20. Edna Karr, New Orleans (14-0)

PR: 20. Result: 4A state champion.

21. Dutch Fork, Irmo, S.C. (15-0)

PR: 22. Result: QB Reese Nichols threw two TD passes in a 28-21 win Saturday vs.
Boiling Springs (Spartanburg) in the 5A state championship game.

22. Clinton, Miss. (14-1)

PR: 21. Result: 6A state champion.

23. Cartersville, Ga. (14-0)

PR: 23. Result: 4A state champion.

24. Kimberly, Wis. (14-0)

PR: 24. Result: Division I state champion.

25. Wise, Upper Marlboro, Md. (14-0)

PR: 25. Result: 4A state champion.

Dropped out: None.

The Super 25 rankings are compiled by USA TODAY Sports' Jim Halley, based on
results, tradition, quality of players and strength of schedule. For regional
rankings, go to usatodayhss.com. The final rankings are Dec. 27.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             376 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Soccer moms, your wishes have come true;
Fiat Chrysler says it has finished fleet of self-driving minivans

BYLINE: Brent Snavely, Detroit Free Press

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 556 words


Fiat Chrysler Automobiles said Monday it has completed the development of 100
uniquely outfitted Chrysler Pacifica Hybrid minivans and has delivered them to
Google's Waymo, which will turn them into the industry's first test fleet of
fully autonomous minivans.

The test fleet is part of a collaboration announced in May between the Michigan
automaker and Waymo, a company that was previously known as Google's
Self-Driving Car Project until it renamed itself last week.

For Waymo, Fiat Chrysler modified the Pacifica's electrical, powertrain, chassis
and structural systems. Waymo will now outfit the Pacificas with its
self-driving technology, including an additional computer and a suite of sensors
that enables the vehicle to digitally map its surroundings, allowing it to
self-drive.

"The Pacifica Hybrid will be a great addition to our fully self-driving test
fleet. (Fiat Chrysler's) product development and manufacturing teams have been
agile partners, enabling us to go from program kickoff to full vehicle assembly
in just six months," Waymo CEO John Krafcik said in a statement. "They've been
great partners, and we look forward to continued teamwork with them as we move
into 2017."

Waymo is expected to deploy the test fleet next year.

Krafcik, in a blog post expected to be published  on medium.com, said Waymo must
test and explore all kinds of vehicles to see what works best as a driverless
car.

"With this great new minivan on the road in our test markets, we'll learn how
people of all ages, shapes and group sizes experience our fully self-driving
technology," Krafcik said.

Fiat Chrysler's relationship with Waymo is the automaker's highest-profile move
in the industry's race to develop and perfect fully autonomous, or self-driving,
vehicles.

"As consumers' transportation needs evolve, strategic collaborations such as
this one are vital to promoting a culture of innovation, safety and technology,"
Fiat Chrysler CEO Sergio Marchionne said in a statement. "Our partnership with
Waymo enables FCA to directly address the opportunities and challenges the
automotive industry faces as we quickly approach a future where fully
self-driving vehicles are very much a part of our daily lives."

Other automakers, including Ford and General Motors, have made even more
aggressive moves on the self-driving car front.

GM said Thursday it will begin testing a fleet of autonomous Chevrolet Bolts on
public roads around metro Detroit next year. Ford has done some testing on
public roads since July 2015, has developed a test fleet of Ford Fusion Hybrids
and has said it intends to begin selling an autonomous vehicle by 2021.

Fiat Chrysler has declined to comment on reports that Waymo and the automaker
are planning to launch a ride-sharing service, like Uber, and that the
relationship could lead to the development of many more driverless Pacificas.

The first 100 Chrysler Pacifica Hybrids were developed by a joint team of
engineers from Fiat Chrysler and Waymo at a research and development site in
southeastern Michigan to accelerate the overall development process. Fiat
Chrysler also said extensive testing was conducted at its Chelsea Proving
Grounds in Chelsea, Mich., and Arizona Proving Grounds in Yucca, Ariz., as well
as Waymo test sites in California. Those tests includes more than 200 hours of
extreme weather testing.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             377 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Is it worth buying an unlocked phone?

BYLINE: Rob Pegoraro, Special for USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 416 words


A phone purchase now looks less phony, courtesy of a spike in sales of
smartphones that don't come locked to a wireless service. That should be good
news -- unless you like preinstalled bloatware and punitive
international-roaming charges.

The market-research firm NPD Group reported Monday that unlocked phones make up
12% of the U.S. market. That represents a remarkable turnaround. Until 2013,
carrier pricing punished shoppers who brought their own devices instead of
buying them from the service -- and locked to it -- at prices subsidized by
higher service fees.

T-Mobile's groundbreaking move to dump phone subsidies and their two-year
contracts has since pushed AT&T, Sprint and Verizon Wireless to do likewise.

"Unlocked phone adoption began growing in the last 18 months or so," NPD analyst
Brad Akyuz wrote in an e-mail. He credited increased online phone shopping
(NPD's tracking of purchases found that 51% of unlocked phones were bought
online) and such Apple direct-to-customer retail options as the iPhone Upgrade
Program.

NPD found that 35% of unlocked phones ran iOS, vs. 65% for Google's Android.

Among unlocked Android phones, Akyuz and analysts Jan Dawson of Jackdaw Research
and Carolina Milanesi of Creative Strategies separately pointed to Blu Products,
which sells unlocked phones only on Amazon -- some reserved for Amazon Prime
subscribers at prices subsidized by lock-screen ads.

Akyuz also noted the popularity of cheaper prepaid wireless services that often
don't sell high-end devices. Using an iPhone or a Google Pixel with them may
demand buying it yourself. "We are seeing unlocked prepaid device adoption
hitting as high as 25% depending on the carrier," Akyuz said.

The benefits of unlocked phones extend beyond a wider selection and cheaper
choices. They also liberate you to switch carriers at will -- and buy cheap
prepaid service for international travel instead of paying costlier roaming
fees.

Unlocked Android phones also ship without the extra apps carriers preload, and
which you usually can't remove. And Android updates should arrive a little
faster without carriers subjecting those patches to their own tests before
sending them to phones.

The traditional downside of unlocked phones has been giving up a carrier's
installment-plan financing -- as Milanesi said, they make "consumers realize the
real price of phones." But with Apple and now Google offering interest-free
installment-plan payments on their own unlocked phones, that reason is going
away, too.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             378 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Reviews mixed for 'Super Mario Run' smartphone game

BYLINE: Brett Molina, @brettmolina23, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 294 words


Shares of Nintendo sunk Monday following the launch of its first video game,
which received mixed reviews over pricing.

On the Tokyo Stock Exchange, Nintendo closed down more than 7% three days after
the arrival of Super Mario Run for Apple's iPhone.

The game features Nintendo icon Mario, who automatically moves during the game,
with players tapping the screen to jump.

Reviews of the game on its iTunes page have been mixed, with many players
complaining over the game's payment model. Its average consumer rating on iTunes
is 2.5 stars out of 5.

It's free to download, but only a select number of levels are available to play.

To unlock the full game, players must spend $9.99.

The majority of popular games on mobile are free to play, with players receiving
the option to spend money on key items such as in-game currency to speed up
their progress. Nintendo has said it will not introduce additional events or
items players must pay to earn.

The pricing structure didn't stop iPhone or iPad owners eager to play their
first Mario game on an Apple device.

According to research firm SensorTower, Super Mario Run was downloaded more than
25million times worldwide last weekend. That's even faster than Pokémon Go,
which needed 11 days to hit the 25million mark.

Nintendo was years late to the mobile gaming trend, only taking the leap when it
recognized it was missing out on a group of potential users who might find the
console game too complicated.

Before launch, it had explained the unusually high pricing as a way to avoid
dinging players with additional, frequent charges as they played.

"We're not going to continue to release little packets of additional content
that people will have to pay for," Nintendo designer Shigeru Miyamoto told USA
TODAY before the launch.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo YOSHIKAZU TSUNO, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             379 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

These were 2016's coolest tech toys

BYLINE: Marc Saltzman, Special for USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 1204 words


'Tis the season to pick up gifts for family, friends or colleagues, and the
latest tech toys might be at the top of their list.

But if you're reading this, maybe you're not quite finished with your shopping
-- or perhaps you haven't even started yet -- because you're unsure what to buy.

After all, with a seemingly endless number of gadgets and gear to choose from at
the store and online, finding the right holiday gift can be an intimidating
proposition.

And so the following are a few recommended picks -- a purely subjective list of
2016 highlights from my vantage point as a tech reviewer -- with prices ranging
from $29 all the way up to $3,299.

Plug n' play

In case you haven't used one before, Roku turns your dumb TV into a smart TV.
The family of five new products range from the Roku Express for $29.99 to the
top-of-the-line Roku Ultra for $129.99. While the premise behind these media
players is the same -- plug it into your television's HDMI port, join your Wi-Fi
and then access more than 3,500 on-demand channels (including streaming video
services like Netflix, Hulu and Amazon Video) -- Roku Ultra supports 4K TVs
(delivering four times the resolution of HD) and high dynamic range (for better
brightness, contrast and more vibrant colors). It's also the only Roku with
voice search across channels, a headphone jack for private listening and a
remote finder.

You drive

G-Technology's G-Drive slim external SSD (solid state drive) includes a USB
Type-C connector, therefore this clever silver accessory works with the new
MacBook Pro, HP Spectre and Acer Swift 7 -- all of which don't have a full-size
USB port. Available in 500 gigabytes ($229.95) or 1 terabyte ($379.95)
capacities, this compact and durable G-Drive offers fast transfer speeds -- to
access videos, photos, music and documents off the connected drive -- and
doesn't require an AC outlet as it gets its power from the PC or Mac itself.
Also included is a full-size USB connector cable for non-USB Type-C laptops and
desktops.

To serve and protect

How's this for irony: It's our job as parents to protect our kids, yet they
understand this new digital world better than we do. Sound familiar?
Fortunately, there's products like Circle with Disney ($99.99), a small white
device that wirelessly communicates with your home's Wi-Fi router and helps mom
or dad set time limits on all connected devices, filter out inappropriate
content and remain informed about what their kids are doing online (on
smartphones, tablets, computers and gaming consoles). The simple-to-use Circle
app gives parents the power to see usage per device, set a bedtime to turn off
connected gadgets or temporarily pause the Internet on-demand. An optional
Circle Go cloud-based service ($13.99/month) lets you manage devices outside of
the home, too, and more.

Top 'Bot

Kids and kids at heart will no doubt fall for Anki's Cozmo ($179.99), a
palm-sized robot that uses its cameras, sensors and smart artificial
intelligence (A.I.) to interact with the family and pets. In fact, this curious
little dude recognizes people, remembers your name, and scans and navigates its
environment.

As a reflection of your actions, the "self-aware" Cozmo can reveal his mood with
facial expressions, body language, voice and music. And of course there are many
games he (and you) can play with his three glowing power cubes (included), plus
there are many other interactive challenges via the iOS and Android app. Cozmo
is made up of 300 or so parts.

Sounding off

Whether you're looking to buy a gift for a frequent flier or music lover (or
both), Sony's MDR-1000X ($399.99) are soft, comfortable and exceptional-sounding
over-ear wireless headphones (Bluetooth, NFC) with built-in noise-cancellation
technology. Press a button for it to first "listen" to the environment you're
in, to best block out ambient noise based on where you are. With the Quick
Attention feature, cup your hand over the right earphone if you want to
temporarily stop the noise-cancellation to talk to someone. Available in black
or gray beige, touch controls on the earcup let you start and pause music, skip
between tracks and much more. Including a case and headphone cable (should you
need it), the 1000X lasts up to 20 hours between charges.

Do the Dot

One hundred dollars less than Amazon Echo, Echo Dot (on sale for $39.99) is also
a personal digital assistant for your home. Simply plug this small disc into
your home stereo speakers or connect wirelessly through Bluetooth, then say
"Alexa" from across the room, followed by any number of questions or commands.
Ask something like "What's going on in the news" or "Play some good music for
studying" or ask to read recipes, pay your bills, give you sports scores, tune a
guitar, remind you to do something and much more. Alexa's voice is extremely
clear, loud and lifelike. Its cloud-connected brain gets all updates on the
backend and works with many dozens of smart home accessories, so you can use
your voice to control lights, thermostats and much more.

You spin me round

Rethink how holiday moments are captured and shared with the Samsung Gear 360
($349.99), a compact camera that can shoot 360-degree video (or photos), which
can then be played back on virtual-reality headsets, or as an interactive
360-degree video on YouTube or Facebook.

It's never been easier (or cheaper) to create content -- perfect for family
vacations, holiday get-togethers and other once-in-a-lifetime events -- you may
want to relive time and again. Equipped with dual fisheye lenses, both with 15
megapixel image sensors, Samsung's Gear 360 can also be synced with select
Samsung smartphone for a real-time preview.

Columnist Marc Saltzman writes on tech devices and trends for USA TODAY. Follow
Marc on Twitter: @marc_saltzman.

Different is good

Measuring just 4mm thin, Lenovo's Yoga Book is the thinnest 2-in-1 available. In
fact, this tablet and laptop hybrid has a flat, virtual keyboard that
illuminates when you type and offers haptic feedback, therefore each key
vibrates slightly under your fingertips. A digital stylus pen means you can
write, draw or sketch where the keyboard was and you'll see it appear on the
screen; real ink tips for the stylus are also included if you prefer to write in
a paper notebook (included), and your words and images are also captured
digitally on the screen. At any time, bend back the 10.1-inch screen on its
360-degree hinge to enable tablet mode. Battery life tops 13 hours. The Android
version costs $449.99, while the Windows model sells for $549.99.

Touch of glass

As LG's signature OLED television, the 65-inch OLED65B6P ($3,299.98) 4K Ultra HD
TV with HDR (high dynamic range) offers much better contrast compared to
LED-backlit televisions, as well as more vibrant colors, smooth motion and
better energy efficiency. Pronounced "oh-led," this OLED screen is ridiculously
thin -- only a few credit cards deep -- but it's the unprecedented image quality
that won't let you tear your eyes away. This television also features great
sound from its forward-firing sound bar speaker system and a webOS 3.0 Smart TV
platform that works with the Magic Remote, included, for mouse-like
functionality, and support for wireless mobile devices.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Anki

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             380 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Norms fall from D.C. to raleigh;
We can't let the GOP win its war on democracy

BYLINE: Jason Sattler

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 764 words


Now that the War on Christmas has been won by a thrice-married philanderer who
ran for president as an aspiring theocrat, the North Carolina GOP has decided
it's time to win the War on Democracy.

First, Republican Gov. Pat McCrory and his allies spent weeks lodging useless
election challenges before finally conceding to Democrat Roy Cooper. Then, after
an emergency session called to aid flood victims last week, the GOP-led
legislature resolved to respond to the real disaster -- a duly elected
Democratic governor.

Over the course of a few days in December, Cooper was stripped of many
executive powers, the only powers he'll likely be able to exercise given that
Republicans hold supermajorities in both state houses.

Sounds like democracy in action, right?

'uncharted territory'

Voters obviously wanted to put a check on Democrats' power by giving the GOP
supermajorities -- except they're more like so-called supermajorities because
the party's 70% control of the state Senate and 74% in the state House came by
winning 56% and 53% of the vote, respectively. In fact, a U.S. district court
found recently that 28 House and Senate special elections must be held next year
because the legislative districts are the result of an unconstitutional "racial
gerrymander."

Of course, North Carolina Republicans didn't invent gerrymandering or rewriting
rules to benefit their party. But they are taking it to extremes that we haven't
seen since before the civil rights movement with a contemptible display that
borders on nullification.

"Democrats in no state have tried to neuter the governor's authority after a
Republican took office, not even in Illinois," Stephen Wolf, a writer for Daily
Kos Elections, tells me. Bob Philips, executive director of the non-partisan
Common Cause North Carolina, agrees with the assessment that "we're in
unprecedented, uncharted territory."

And there's no precedent for what Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and his
GOP Senate just pulled off by holding up a Supreme Court appointment for the
longest stretch in U.S. history. Now a president who was easily re-elected by a
margin of nearly 5 million votes won't get to make that appointment. That
privilege will go to a president-elect who lost the popular vote by nearly 3
million votes.

"The glue that holds our republic together is in acceptance of norms of
democratic behavior," congressional scholar Norman Ornstein tweeted. "Trump,
McConnell, N.C. Republicans are shattering them."

When a firebomb destroyed a GOP office in Hillsborough, N.C., in mid-October,
Democrats started a GoFundMe page that raised nearly $13,000 in fewer than 40
minutes to reopen the office. That urge comes not just from basic decency but
also a fundamental respect for democracy.

tea party model

That same respect is why the establishment of the Democratic Party didn't join
the doomed effort to persuade the Electoral College to reject President-elect
Donald Trump. And it's why President Obama refuses to be the first president to
undermine the peaceful transfer of power.

Watching Democrats let this happen, you can argue, as ThinkProgress did in a
recent headline, that liberalism is not built for moments like these.

But conservatism is.

That's why Democrats need to follow that  model, say Jeremy Haile, Angel Padilla
and Ezra Levin, former congressional staffers shaped by the rise of the Tea
Party movement. Their crowd-sourced guide, Indivisible: A Practical Guide for
Resisting the Trump Agenda, aims to compel the same sort of relentless
opposition the right waged on Obama's agenda. Absolute resistance seemed risky,
but it has produced one of the most consequential victories in GOP history.

The "Just say NO!" approach was devised by powerful Republicans the night Obama
was first sworn in. It was backed up by tens of millions of dollars  from
outside groups and free advertising from Fox News. Republicans were also blessed
in their opponent: a constitutional law scholar devoted to working within the
system. Most important, their leaders weren't weighed down by the delusion that
voters would reward them for trying to make Congress functional.

The GOP has proved that treating your opponents as  illegitimate is a path to
success.

Democracy is on fire. Democrats don't want to fight fire with fire. But they'd
better figure out a way to resist that doesn't rely on the graciousness of their
opponents or the wisdom of the American voter, before 80 years of progress is
burned to the ground.

Jason Sattler, aka @LOLGOP, is a member of USA TODAY's Board of Contributors and
a columnist for The National Memo.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Shawn Thew, epa

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             381 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Norms fall from D.C. to raleigh;
A scandal in waiting

BYLINE: Craig Holman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 482 words


No administration in history has been as fraught with financial conflicts of
interest as the incoming Trump administration, from the president-elect on down.
It is likely to be one of the most scandal-ridden in memory if these conflicts
are not dealt with.

We have had wealthy presidents  and Cabinet officials before, but Donald Trump
and his nominees shatter all records when it comes to scale of wealth,
investments and potential conflicts.

Most presidents' wealth was primarily domestic, and they created genuine blind
trusts to manage their conflicts. Though no one knows for sure, because Trump
refuses to release his tax returns, his vast empire is probably in the billions
and spans the globe, with investments tracked so far in more than 20 countries.

All these nations have a stake in U.S. foreign policy and would like to
influence the U.S. worldview. China, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Azerbaijan,
Philippines, India, Turkey and others want something from America. Now they have
a personal financial connection to the incoming president.

Dozens of representatives from the ethics community have asked Trump to divest
himself of  financial conflicts, especially  foreign investments, and move his
wealth into a genuine blind trust run by an independent executor, not by his
family. So far, he is sending opposite signals.

The federal statute, which requires officials to avoid conflicts of interest,
applies to everyone except the president and vice president. The Emoluments
Clause of the Constitution is not quite so forgiving. The Founding Fathers
feared foreign governments currying favor with officials by throwing gifts at
their feet. They wrote right into the Constitution that officials cannot "accept
of any present, emolument, office or title, of any kind whatever, from any king,
prince or foreign state."

Trump's Cabinet nominees bring their own weighty conflicts. Titans of industry
will in some cases be taking over the very agencies that oversee their
businesses.  They will be ripe for charges of self-dealing unless they take
extraordinary precautions that go beyond the blind trust required by law.

These precautions are already in place with President Obama's ethics Executive
Order 13490. It requires all presidential appointees to sign an ethics pledge
that they will recuse themselves from taking official actions that directly and
substantially impact their former employers or clients of the last two years.
The new president could extend Obama's rules for his own Cabinet officers.

Trump has proposed  reasonable revolving-door restrictions on those who leave
his administration. He must now do the same for those coming into it. That
includes managing his own conflicts through divestiture and a genuine blind
trust.

Craig Holman, the government affairs lobbyist for Public Citizen, has worked on
President Obama's executive order on ethics and other revolving-door issues.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             382 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

What to watch;
Market signals say stocks could go 'flat'

BYLINE: Adam Shell, @adamshell, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 239 words


A few signs are emerging that suggest the post-election stock market rally could
fizzle out, causing stocks to go "flat."

Since Donald Trump was elected president, stocks have rallied amid hopes his
plans to cut corporate taxes, reduce business regulations and spend $1 trillion
over a decade to fix aging infrastructure would boost U.S. economic growth and
profits.

But the rally has lost momentum since the Standard & Poor's 500 index hit a
record high Dec. 13, which at the time pushed it up 6.2% since Election Day.
Since then, the market has dipped slightly and traded sideways.

That "flat" trading pattern could continue, according to market signposts
tracked by Schaeffer's Investment Research. For one, the market has run into
selling near big, round numbers. The Dow Jones industrial average has stalled
out since climbing within 34 points of 20,000 on Dec. 14. The S&P 500 has
stalled since peaking Dec. 13 and flirting with the 2300 milestone. (The S&P
rallied within 1% of 2300.) "Hesitation here makes sense," says Schaeffer's Todd
Salamone.

Another yellow flag: investor sentiment, as measured by financial newsletter
writers. Currently, 59% polled by Investors Intelligence said they were bullish,
vs. just 19% who said they're bearish. the biggest gap between bulls and bears
since July 2014. Says Salamone: "We are seeing optimism come into the market,
which usually occurs prior to a sell-off or trading range behavior."

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             383 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

5 Essential tracks from Kid Cudi's 'Passion, Pain, & Demon Slayin';
His new album, coming at the end of a troubled year, doesn't dispatch his demons

BYLINE: Maeve McDermott, @maeve_mcdermott, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 516 words


Kid Cudi needed some good news.

The rapper has spent 2016 in the spotlight; the troubles  began with a series of
high-profile rants against Kanye West, Drake and other rappers and ended with
him entering rehab for  depression.

The artist's outburst and subsequent hospitalization wasn't the only time a
high-profile rapper sought help this fall. Back in 2008, Cudi and his former
collaborator Kanye West made it OK for rappers to make music about their
feelings, even their depression, on West's 808s & Heartbreak. In a cruel twist
of fate, both sought treatment this year for their mental health, with West
entering the hospital in November for exhaustion.

Even as he was headed into darkness, Cudi had one bright spot ahead: the release
of Passion, Pain, & Demon Slayin' (**1/2 out of four), his new album that he
wrote and mostly produced himself. Stretching over an hour and a half, broken up
into four mini-movements and featuring guest spots from Andre 3000, Pharrell
Williams, Travis Scott and Willow Smith, the album takes its passion and pain
seriously, showing Cudi grappling with his depression, not quite slaying his
demons yet.

Along with his frank treatment of his mental health, another constant in Cudi's
career has  been his ambitious recording projects; which sometimes, like his
2015 alt-rock album Speedin' Bullet 2 Heaven, descend into self-indulgence. Like
many other high-profile rap albums this year, Passion's long run time is its
weakest point; its symphony-like structure stretches at least one movement too
long. But there's plenty to celebrate in Passion's contemplative down-tempo rap
and colorful psych-R&B, showing Cudi returning to, and expanding, the spacey
production that first made him famous on his 2009 debut, Man on the Moon. As his
past year has shown, the singer is still chasing the Pursuit of Happiness he
sang about on his eerily prescient breakout hit. On Passion, he has accepted
that "you could try and numb the pain, but it'll never go away," as he repeats
to himself on Passion track Swim in the Light. Thankfully, he's still swimming.

Ready to listen? Start with these five tracks:

ILLusions

This is classic Kid Cudi, tracing his lifetime of nightmarish hallucinations
over spare production, struggling  to banish "the demons in my head."

Does It

While Cudi spends much of Passion in his monotone singing voice, he switches
gears on Does It with sung-spoken verses full of braggadocious lyrics, proving
he's not quite finished talking trash.

By Design

featuring Andre 3000:  This song is the better of Passion's two features from
the former Outkast member as he does his best approximation of Cudi's flow over
hints of steel drums.

Rose Golden

featuring Willow Smith: The combination of  Cudi and  Smith  is Passion's most
logical pairing, featuring the spiritual artists' church-like chants about the
universe's higher power.

Surfin'

featuring Pharrell Williams: Passion's final track is its most celebratory,
thanks to production by Pharrell as Cudi ends the album with a message of
resilience: "I ain't ridin' no waves / Too busy making my own waves, baby."

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Lollapalooza 2015, Chicago, by Michael Hickey, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             384 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Sappy Christmas stories are good for the soul;
'Collateral Beauty,' 'A Monster Calls' are this year's salve

BYLINE: Brian Truitt, @briantruitt, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 529 words


Sappy movies are the Christmas gifts that keep on giving.

Emotional cinema classics such as It's a Wonderful Life and Miracle on 34th
Street have melted cold hearts over the years around the holidays, but it turns
out they're also good for your mental well-being.

"Those kinds of movies that celebrate hope, celebrate the possibility of a
better life, that kind of thing. They're needed all the time. But Christmas is a
season dedicated to that feeling and need," says Skip Dine Young, professor of
psychology at Indiana's Hanover College and author of Psychology at the Movies.

Two new movies are additions to that seasonal canon: In Collateral Beauty (now
showing), an advertising executive played by Will Smith engages human
representations of Love, Time and Death to come to grips with the loss of his
daughter. And A Monster Calls (in theaters Friday in New York and Los Angeles,
expands nationwide Jan. 6), though not exactly holiday-themed, calls for tissues
as it centers on a British boy (Lewis MacDougall) who conjures a tree monster
while taking care of his dying mother (Felicity Jones).

Although such releases don't always work out -- case in point, Collateral
Beauty's disastrous $7 million opening weekend -- Hollywood studios "look at
this time of year as a time of escapism but also of connecting with the warm and
fuzzy side of how people feel," says Paul Dergarabedian, senior media analyst
for comScore.

Eggnog is too rich to drink all year, and similarly, tales such as Charles
Dickens' A Christmas Carol or pretty much anything on the Hallmark Channel act
as a tonic in December, says Alonso Duralde, a film critic for trade site
TheWrap.com and author of Have Yourself a Movie Little Christmas.

"Christmastime is when we open ourselves up to correcting our past mistakes and
rekindling our old relationships, just like Ebenezer Scrooge does," Duralde
says. "We light a candle to ward off the darkness of winter, and we seek out
sentimentality to keep our hearts from growing too chilly."

Young acknowledges that a lot of his research is in the way films act as
"equipment for living," and holiday fare such as the musical White Christmas,
super-sentimental Love Actually or the unconventionally touching Bill Murray
comedy Scrooged, work on two levels: They help people already in the spirit get
in touch with the holiday but also act as a salve for the downtrodden.

"The season is meant to celebrate hope and renewal," Young says. "The contrast
sometimes leads to people who aren't feeling it to experience the opposite:
depression, hopelessness, feeling like they lack something in this season that's
supposed to be about giving in abundance."

Everybody's got their favorites to embrace around the holiday, even movie
critics. "One person's milk of human kindness is another person's saccharine,"
says Duralde, who sheds "a few tears every December" for It's a Wonderful Life
and 1970's Scrooge with Albert Finney.

"The usual rules of objectivity in film criticism fly out the window when it
comes to Christmas movies: You either respond, or you don't," Duralde adds.
"They've got the power to weaken your resistance in a way that other kinds of
films don't."

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Barry Wetcher

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             385 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Just 2 weeks out of the hospital, is Kanye doing too much too soon?

BYLINE: Jayme Deerwester, @jaymedeerwester, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 570 words


Kanye West sightings are once again becoming a frequent occurrence.

Just three days after his much-discussed meeting with President-elect Donald
Trump, the rapper turned up Friday night at West Hollywood's MOCA Pacific Design
Center for the opening of an exhibit by Paris-based furniture designer Rick
Owens.

West, 39, had made his first public appearance since his hospitalization on Dec.
8 when he visited Owens and wife Michele Lamy as they put the finishing touches
on the show.

There also have been  reports  West is already back at work in the studio,
collaborating with Pete Rock on an album he has dubbed Turbo Grafx 16.

But is it too much too soon for a person only two weeks removed from a
hospitalization for exhaustion and sleep deprivation?

Vibe's Michael Saponara argued that pain is good for Kanye's art, writing: "In
my opinion, 'Ye has done some of his best work after his lowest points in life.
Just re-listen to Through The Wire and 808s & Heartbreak."

Jenn Mann, a Los Angeles-based marriage and family therapist and the author of
The Relationship Fix: Dr. Jenn's 6-Step Guide to Improving Communication,
Connection & Intimacy, agrees -- to a point.

"It's important that creative people have creative outlets," she notes. But more
important, "he needs to get proper care, get stabilized and have the support of
his wife and family. Being near them is good for him. (Wife) Kim (Kardashian
West) seems like a very stabilizing force. And I always think it's best to have
your regular doctors seeing you face-to-face on a regular basis after you have
that kind of breakdown."

Going back out on tour would be a riskier proposition, she says.

"There's no question that a music tour is not a super-stable environment. ...
Late nights, tons of adrenaline that can keep you from sleeping, lots of
pressure to perform -- those are very stress-inducing at a time when he doesn't
need that. But I also do understand that when you sign a contract, breaking that
contract is also stress-inducing so it's about finding a balance."

In an interview earlier this year with Britain's Guardian, electronic music
veteran Moby, 51, cataloged the mental strain of life on the road: "I've never
gone on a tour and not experienced anxiety, depression and insomnia. In the
early days, it seemed like a small price to pay. But at this point in my life, I
can't in good conscious punish myself and my body and my mental health out of
obligation to go on tour."

The emotional high of performing and the subsequent come-down can bring on what
is known as post-performance depression, a condition that Utah therapist John C.
Buckner says can be aggravated when artists don't take proper care of
themselves.

"Just as 2-year-olds are more likely to have temper tantrums when they are
hungry or sleepy, musicians and athletes are more likely to be emotionally
vulnerable if their basic needs have not been cared for," he wrote in 2013  for
the music journal Percussive Notes. "Balancing out sleep, healthy eating, etc.,
will allow you to have more emotional control, thus allowing more control over
the emotional swings of PPD."

Plus, Mann cautions, "jumping back on tour too fast or being too busy recording
or taking business and social meetings can really take your eye off your focus,
which needs to be your recovery and your well-being. And when you take your eye
off that ball, a lot of the time, you drop it and it can cause bigger problems."


LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Rachel Murray, Getty Images, for MOCA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             386 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

LAWRENCE AND PRATT: SUPERSTAR CHEMISTRY;
Onscreen and off, they really like each other. And it shows.

BYLINE: Bryan Alexander, @BryAlexand, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 489 words


By all accounts, Jennifer Lawrence and Chris Pratt found working together on
Passengers everything you'd hope and expect when two of the world's biggest,
most beloved and most relatable box office stars join forces.

The duo bonded over a shared love of Dumb and Dumber ("That was our touchstone,"
Pratt says), and he laughed hard for a good 10 minutes when Lawrence made her
iPhone Siri repeat the lyrics "Booty, booty, booty, booty, rockin' everywhere"
when they had to wear foot booties on the set.

There's just this minor issue of Lawrence never having seen Pratt's Marvel hit
Guardians of the Galaxy (also featuring her frequent co-star Bradley Cooper) all
the way through.

"I have a problem," Lawrence explains, sitting next to a smiling Pratt. "I put a
movie on and I fall asleep. And I try again. But then it got to the point where
I felt like I had seen it. But I did enjoy it."

She saw enough to know what's apparent to all: Star-Lord Pratt, 37, has the
screen power to help a fellow superstar like Lawrence, 26, carry a movie like
Passengers (in theaters Wednesday). The sci-fi adventure rests on their space
travelers, Aurora and Jim, who awake from malfunctioning sleep pods 90 years out
from their destination.

And, let's face it, Pratt also seemed as if he'd be amusing for a grueling,
primarily two-actor shoot.

"I assumed we'd have fun because he seemed funny," Lawrence says. "But I didn't
know. Sometimes comedians are real wackos. They are really dark."

"That's true," Pratt says sagely.

Adds Lawrence: "They're like, 'I'm not a monkey,' and I'm like, 'I kind of want
you to be a monkey.'"

"I had no problem being a monkey," Pratt retorts as the two crack up.

"The moral of the story," says Lawrence, trying to move on as she reaches for
her drink. " ... Wait, is this water mine or yours?"

"Let's share," Pratt says. "Just fountain that into my mouth."

"Not during flu season. That's just irresponsible," Lawrence says. "Otherwise
I'd baby-bird him. Constantly."

These random interludes dominate Pratt and Lawrence's discussions, which are
filled with standing jokes and an abiding respect for moronic humor. This
natural chemistry comes through onscreen, Pratt says.

"There is passion. We see that. But also there's a genuine friendship and a bond
between these two people," says Pratt, who insists the connection is real.

"You hear stories about people creating amazing onscreen chemistry, but they
disliked each other and the moviemaking was a nightmare. We didn't have that.
This was really easy," he says. "To create that chemistry, but more importantly
enjoy ourselves, makes the journey to this great destination really fun."

This journey lasts, even with Lawrence still behind on her Guardians.

"You know what, months after (finishing) Passengers, I put it on in my set
trailer. It was on HBO," Lawrence says. "And I fell asleep."

Pratt can only laugh and add, "You should probably know that we end up guarding
the galaxy."

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Robert Hanashiro, USA Today

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             387 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Electoral College voting confirms Trump victory;
'Faithless' electors fail to stage rebellion

BYLINE: Heidi M. Przybyla, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 504 words


Donald Trump will -- officially -- become president next month.

Trump surpassed the 270 electoral votes needed from 538 electors casting their
ballots, in a day of normally ceremonial voting that drew attention amid intense
social media pressure and protests in state capitols.

Despite a last-minute push by outside progressive and Libertarian groups, there
was no rebellion. In fact, most of the "faithless" electors appeared to be
Hillary Clinton defectors in Washington state, with three voting for former
secretary of State Colin Powell and one for Faith Spotted Eagle, a Native
American an environmental activist. Two Texas GOP electors went rogue and didn't
vote for Trump.

The meetings, which occur more than a month after the Nov. 8 election, are
typically a formality. This year, Trump critics mounted a vocal campaign
appealing to the Republican electors pledged to vote for him. The official
results of the vote will be announced before Congress on Jan. 6. The results
from each state were released throughout the day Monday.

Electors had received thousands of emails and phone calls arguing Trump is
unqualified, as the first president in the nation's history with no military or
government experience and with potential conflicts of interest because of  his
business empire. Confirmation by the FBI and CIA that the Russian government
hacked Hillary Clinton's campaign and the Democratic National Committee seeking
to help Trump win the election have amplified their calls. Thousands of
protesters gathered outside state capitols throughout the country.

"Many Republican electors have told me they're open to sending the vote for
President to the U.S. House of Representatives, which has happened twice in our
nation's history," said Chris Suprun, a Texas elector who is not voting for
Trump. "Frankly, at this point, I'm wondering if Putin helped Trump win the
Republican primary," he said. In Rhode Island, electors passed a motion calling
for an independent, bipartisan investigation into Russian intervention in the
election as Congress debates whether the matter should be reviewed by
Republican-led committees or as an independent probe.

Yet, so far, Suprun is the only Republican to publicly say he'll vote against
Trump. Opponents would need 37 GOP electors to switch.  Even if there were a
mass defection, the matter would kick to the Republican-led House of
Representatives, which is unlikely to override the president.

Clinton won more than 2.8million more votes than Trump nationwide. But Trump got
306 of the 538 electoral votes.

It's the second time in recent history, including Democrat Al Gore's loss in
2000 to George W. Bush, that the person winning the popular vote lost the
election.

The trend is causing Democrats to question the system by which the U.S. chooses
its leaders, according to a new USA TODAY/Suffolk University Poll. It finds 50%
of registered voters believe the Electoral College should choose the president.
Yet  42% say the Constitution should be amended so the popular vote prevails.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Mark Makela, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             388 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Broncos fail to sustain winning formula;
Five factors conspire to derail champions' bid to repeat

BYLINE: Lindsay H. Jones, @bylindsayhjones, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 692 words


The Denver Broncos almost certainly won't repeat as Super Bowl champions.

The Broncos haven't technically been eliminated from playoff contention, but the
end feels inevitable after Sunday's 16-3 loss to the New England Patriots.

So how did Denver go from mounting a title defense to 8-6, with the distinct
possibility of finishing 8-8?

Repeating isn't easy, but several factors have made it impossible for the
Broncos. That includes the way they won last season.

Broncos executive vice president of football operations John Elway has become
fond of saying he wanted to build a team to win "from now on." It turns out the
formula the Broncos won with last season -- with the league's best defense
routinely making up for a sluggish offense -- is not sustainable. The Broncos
needed to be a more complete team to make another title run, yet somehow they
became even more lopsided in 2016.

Here are the five biggest issues:

No solid succession plan for post-Manning era

Though Peyton Manning refused to talk about his potential retirement last
season, it became increasingly clear as the season progressed it would be his
last in Denver. Either the quarterback would retire (which he  did) or the
Broncos would cut him. So far, Elway's biggest blunder as general manager is not
having a better plan for life after Manning. The Broncos appear to have avoided
disaster after being outbid by the Houston Texans on signing Brock Osweiler. But
Trevor Siemian, though he's played several good games, does not look like the
team's long-term answer. Maybe Elway will wind up being right about Paxton
Lynch, whom the Broncos drafted in the first round in April after trading up.
But with a championship window open, the Broncos needed a quarterback for 2016
who was ready to win right away.

Offensive line failures

The unit was a liability during the team's Super Bowl run a year ago, and
somehow its play has been even worse this season. Elway tried to address the
position in free agency by signing two tackles -- left tackle Russell Okung from
the Seattle Seahawks and right tackle Donald Stephenson from the Kansas City
Chiefs. Neither move has fixed the pass protection, and run blocking has been an
even bigger issue. The Broncos are happy with young center Matt Paradis, but the
other recent draft picks -- Ty Sambrailo, who was a healthy scratch Sunday
against the Patriots, and Max Garcia -- have been slow to develop.

Disappointing run defense

This facet of the defense took a hit with the free agent departures of lineman
Malik Jackson and inside linebacker Danny Trevathan. Running right at the
Broncos became the game plan of choice for opponents. The strength of the
defense is on its edges and in the secondary, and all of its best players could
be neutralized by a physical offensive line (like that of the Oakland Raiders)
and an offense committed to running the ball (like the Patriots).

Lack of big defensive plays

The defense ranks among the league's best in many major statistical categories,
and no group has been better against the pass, thanks to linebacker Von Miller
and the "No Fly Zone" secondary. But something has been missing lately: big,
game-changing plays, which the Broncos seemed to make regularly last year. The
Broncos are getting pass pressure, but not the strip-sack. Or they are breaking
up passes, but not getting the interception -- in their six losses, they haven't
recorded a single pick. With as limited as Denver has been on offense lately, it
has had to count on the defense to provide a big swing. When that doesn't
happen, the Broncos struggle to win.

AFC West improvement

Denver's five-year reign atop the division is over, and it wasn't difficult to
see the end coming. The Chiefs were the hottest team at the end of last season,
and the Raiders showed they were rising. The two teams left Denver with little
room for error, which marked an abrupt shift. Last December, the Broncos lost
back-to-back games in December, but they never found themselves trailing in the
division. Now, the Broncos are 1-4 in the AFC West, with their two remaining
games coming against the Chiefs (at Arrowhead Stadium) and at home vs. the
Raiders.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Isaiah J. Downing, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             389 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Packers must confront flaws

BYLINE: narmour@, usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 664 words


Aaron Rodgers' aching right calf isn't the only worry for the Green Bay Packers
as they reach the win-or-go-home portion of the season.

The defense got pushed around Sunday like pieces in an electronic football game
-- by a three-win Chicago Bears team playing a backup quarterback.

"We won the ballgame, first and foremost. But I understand what you're saying
and understand what you're seeing," safety Ha Ha Clinton-Dix said after the
defense collapsed in the fourth quarter, turning a rout into a
too-close-for-comfort 30-27 win. "We've just got to find a way to finish and
play four full quarters."

Clinton-Dix had back-to-back interceptions as the Packers forced Matt Barkley
into turnovers on four consecutive possessions spanning halftime. Safety Micah
Hyde also had a pick, and outside linebacker Julius Peppers strip-sacked Barkley
on the first play of the second half.

This after harassing the Seattle Seahawks into six turnovers -- five
interceptions -- the previous week. In two games, the Packers have doubled their
number of interceptions for the season and were tied for second in the NFL with
16 entering Monday.

The problem comes when the defense isn't getting takeaways. After that
four-turnover flurry, the Packers gave up 228 yards as the Bears erased a
17-point deficit in the fourth quarter.

To put that in perspective, Chicago finished the day with 449 yards of total
offense. So almost half of their production came in 15 minutes, when they ran
roughshod over the Packers. Chicago's receivers might as well have been wearing
red practice jerseys for as little as they were touched, and Jordan Howard
chewed up more turf than a lawn mower.

Hyde did make the play of the game, batting away Barkley's third-down pass at
the goal line to save what would have been a go-ahead touchdown for Chicago. But
the fact the Packers needed him to make that play ought to give coordinator Dom
Capers and everyone else on the defensive side of the ball pause.

"That's something we have to work on, closing out games," Hyde said.

Chicago is slightly better than its 3-11 record indicates, and records are
largely irrelevant in a grudge match that is nearly a century old. The Packers
also were without sacks leader Nick Perry (hand), and a shoulder injury has left
Clay Matthews a shadow of his former self.

But if the Packers can't stop the Bears, what happens when they run into, say,
the Dallas Cowboys? If they get that far.

The Packers are doing their usual December thing, piling up wins and improving
their playoff position. And while Sunday's win, coupled with a Detroit Lions
loss, gives the Packers control of their destiny, they trail the Lions by a
game.

Green Bay has to win out, or it could find itself on the couch for the playoffs
for the first time since 2008, Rodgers' first season as the starting
quarterback.

"Not really," Peppers said when asked if he was concerned about the defense's
disappearance in the fourth quarter. "Those are things you get cleaned up during
the week. You take a look at it, and you see what happened. It seems like it
should be easy and correctable."

Maybe. But it's reminiscent of the struggles the Packers had when they were in
the midst of a four-game skid that pushed them to the brink of playoff oblivion.

Green Bay gave up an average of 421 yards in those losses and was particularly
hapless against the Tennessee Titans (446 yards) and Washington Redskins (515).
In its three wins that followed? An average of 318 yards -- and that includes
354 by Seattle, which was forced to throw a lot because it was in such a big
hole.

"It's just playing fast," Clinton-Dix said of what needs to change. "Having all
11 guys get to the ball. Make plays and get them on the ground."

When the Packers defense is locked in, it's a fearsome bunch. See the Seattle
game, or that 20-minute span in Sunday's contest when it was shaking down
Barkley like a lunchroom bully.

But relying on takeaways is a dangerous game, and it's one the Packers will
ultimately lose.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Mike Dinovo, USA TODAY Sports USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             390 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Hedge-fund execs charged in $1B scam;
Not since Bernard Madoff's time has such a 'brazen' scheme been alleged

BYLINE: Kevin McCoy, @kmccoynyc, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 867 words


Platinum Partners hedge-fund founder Mark Nordlicht and four others with ties to
the New York City-based hedge fund were charged Monday in a $1 billion
securities fraud indictment, one of the largest alleged scams since Bernard
Madoff's notorious Ponzi scheme.

Brooklyn federal prosecutors who announced the eight-count indictment said two
additional suspects were indicted for their alleged roles in a $50 million bond
fraud involving Black Elk Energy, one of Platinum Partners' largest portfolio
companies.

The hedge fund's management companies "projected stability and confidence" to
current and prospective investors, reporting positive average returns of 17%
from 2003 to 2015, according to a parallel civil lawsuit filed by the Securities
and Exchange Commission (SEC).

Inside, however, the management firms faced a worsening liquidity crisis at
times referred to in company documents as "Hail Mary time," along with
"relentless" redemption requests from investors seeking their money back,
federal prosecutors and the SEC said.

Nordlicht and his alleged co-conspirators knew that one of the company's chief
funds faced financial trouble in 2012, the indictment charged. As the situation
turned desperate, the suspects allegedly defrauded investors by overvaluing the
company's largest assets, concealing cash-flow problems at Platinum's signature
fund and making preferential repayments to some customers.

"Nordlicht and his cohorts engaged in one of the largest and most brazen
investment frauds perpetrated on the investing public, earning Platinum more
than $100 million in fees during the charged conspiracy," Brooklyn U.S. Attorney
Robert Capers said in a statement announcing the charges. The secret financial
implosion "eventually led to Nordlicht and his co-conspirators operating
Platinum like a Ponzi scheme, where they used loans and new investor funds to
pay off existing investors," said Capers.

Platinum declined to comment on the allegations.

Founded in 2003, Platinum Partners is an investment management group that as
recently as March reported to the SEC and other regulators that it had
$1.7billion in assets under management. The firm manages multiple funds, but
most assets were invested through Platinum Partners Value Arbitrage Fund and
Platinum Partners Credit Opportunities Master Fund.

Defendants charged with Nordlicht, 48, of New Rochelle, N.Y.: David Levy, 31, a
New York City resident and the company's co-chief investment officer; Uri
Landesman, 55, of New Rochelle, the former president of Platinum's signature
fund; Joseph SanFilippo, 38, of Freehold, N.J., the CFO of the signature fund;
Joseph Mann, 24, of Brooklyn, an investor and finance official; Daniel Small,
47, of New York City, a former managing director; and Jeffrey Shulse, 44, of
Houston, the former CEO of Black Elk Energy Offshore Operations.

Prosecutors cited company records that documented a financial crisis hidden from
investors. In a November 2012 email exchange with Landesman, Nordlicht wrote:
"It's just very daunting. It seems like we make some progress and then
(redemptions) are relentless almost."

The following month, Nordlicht forwarded an email to Landesman showing he had
informed a co-conspirator that he wife was urging him to leave for Israel.

Many of Platinum's investors are observant members of the Jewish religious
community, The Wall Street Journal reported, citing unidentified people familiar
with the matter.

Platinum's management hid the red ink in part by claiming a position in Golden
Gate Oil LLC was valued at roughly $170 million. In reality, it was worth a
fraction of that total, the SEC complaint said.

The executives also allegedly misled investors about the cash crunch. Records of
a January 2015 conference call with investors show Nordlicht said: "If we look
historically, we've been very very fortunate ... we're running about a billion
four between all our different entities ... I think we've returned about double
that in cash to investors, so that is really an indication of ... being very
liquid and nimble."

By 2016, however, the financial crisis had emerged in public view. In June,
former Platinum executive Murray Huberfeld was indicted on alleged conspiracy
charges with Norman Seabrook, head of the New York City corrections officers
union. They have pleaded not guilty.

In July, Platinum told investors it had hired an independent monitor to oversee
liquidation of its two principal hedge funds. Platinum Partners also said that
month it would likely return the assets of its largest and oldest fund to
clients as the result of the arrest of a longtime associate on charges he
arranged a $60,000 bribe in an effort to land a crucial investment from the New
York City corrections officers union.

In August, Platinum Partners Value Arbitrage Fund (International) Limited and
Platinum Partners Value Arbitrage Fund L.P. were placed into liquidation and
provisional liquidation, respectively, under orders issued by the Grand Court of
the Cayman Islands, according to the company's website.

Though the alleged securities fraud is large, it's well below the as much as $20
billion investment scam Madoff ran for decades until his operation collapsed in
December 2008.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Bebeto Matthews, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             391 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Why China matters in Trump's economic policy;
resident-elect Donald Trump's threats to impose big tariffs on China have put
that country in the global spotlight. Trump says he wants to bring back American
factory jobs, but economists say his tactics could result in a trade war that
ultimately hurts the United States. Economics reporters and try to sort it all
out.

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1268 words


Q: How did China become the second-largest economy in the world and so
intertwined with the U.S.?

A: With a population of nearly 1.4 billion, China is the world's largest
country. It has taken advantage of its bountiful labor force to fuel an
export-oriented economy. In short, it became richer by transforming itself into
the world's factory. American companies fully exploited the opportunities,
rushing to outsource manufacturing there.

The result was a burgeoning middle class in China that formed a new export
market for American products. More Chinese students can now afford to study in
the U.S., often forming the largest international student group at prestigious
universities. Chinese tourists pack American hotels in major cities. And the
Chinese government began investing heavily in U.S. Treasuries. China is now
America's largest debtor.

Q: What is a trade deficit, and why has our trade deficit with China widened?

A: A trade deficit occurs when a country's imports of goods and services exceed
its exports, or goods and services shipped abroad. The U.S. trade deficit across
the globe totaled $531.5 billion in 2015, up from $508.3 billion a year earlier.
In other words, Americans consume more foreign goods and services than the
country ships overseas.

The vast majority of the U.S. deficit derives from trade with China. The gap
with China rose to $365.7 billion in 2015 from $343.1 billion a year earlier.
That's because more U.S. companies continue to outsource to China to take
advantage of cheap labor, and those goods are then shipped to the U.S.
Meanwhile, U.S. exports to China are growing as wages in that country increase
and residents consume more, but not nearly as quickly as imports. The standard
of living in China is still relatively low.

Also, China puts high tariffs on many American products while U.S. tariffs on
Chinese products are low. And the dollar is strong, particularly in relation to
the Chinese yuan. That makes U.S. goods more expensive for Chinese customers,
and Chinese goods cheaper for Americans.

Q: What U.S. goods are exported to China, and which Chinese goods are imported
to the U.S.?

A: Some of the goods exported by the U.S. include industrial supplies, foods,
airplanes, and car parts and machinery. Goods imported to the U.S. from China
include consumer electronics and clothing.

Q: Why has Trump made China such a big issue?

A: Politics plays a huge role.  Trump  knew that the message of bringing jobs
back from China would resonate with voters in Rust Belt states.  "There's
certainly a sense in heartland America that trade has not worked well for
average workers, especially in the manufacturing sector," says Eswar Prasad, an
economics professor at Cornell University. "It's a lot easier to blame the
external boogeyman as the main culprit for the job losses."

Q: What does Trump want from China?

A: As seen in his recent negotiations with Carrier to keep operations in the
U.S., Trump has shown that the appearance of victory matters to him. So he's
looking for concessions, says Mauro Guillen, an economics professor at the
University of Pennsylvania. "What he wants is to score some kind of victory, at
least symbolic," he says.

He may also have more substantive goals in mind, says Matthew Kahn, an economics
professor at the University of Southern California. Trump could negotiate to
broaden local market access for American companies, restrict its theft of U.S.
intellectual property and continue Chinese investment in U.S. real estate and
universities. "I think he wants China to consume more of our exports," Kahn
says. "He wants more American success there."

Q: China has been accused of currency manipulation. Does this continue? How does
it affect our trade policy and American companies' operations?

A: China pegs the yuan to the dollar, giving the government much control over
its value. Most advanced economies let  currencies "float," allowing market
forces to dictate their currency value.

For years, China has deliberately devalued its currency, which made its exports
cheaper. But the practice has faded in the past two years, Prasad says. With the
Chinese economy cooling, market forces have driven the yuan to an eight-year low
against the dollar in November. And China's central bank and other state-owned
banks have been intervening to ensure it's not depreciating too far, Prasad
says. "Right now, it's doing the reverse of currency manipulating," he says.
"It's helping the U.S."

Q: How does the trade deficit with China affect the U.S. economy?

A: Consumer goods have gotten cheaper because companies can make them at low
cost in China.

But there's no denying that American manufacturing jobs have been lost due to
offshoring. Free trade "may come at the expense of some jobs in the U.S. But
Americans have developed a taste for cheap consumer goods," Guillen says.

Q: Trump has threatened to slap Chinese imports to the U.S. with 45% tariffs.
Would that be effective in narrowing the trade deficit and bringing jobs back to
the U.S.?

A: Unlikely, economists say. Any measures to lower imports of Chinese products
-- say, a tariff on a specific industry -- will likely result in a tit-for-tat
response from China, resulting in higher prices for U.S. exports.

Many U.S. manufacturers then will simply move operations to other countries with
low costs, such as Vietnam. Raising tariffs is not a guaranteed remedy for
regenerating U.S. manufacturing jobs, Prasad says.

Besides imposing tariffs on American goods, China could seek to make accessing
the Chinese market difficult for American companies. That could mean unforeseen
licensing requirements and administrative procedures. Chinese students could be
held back from attending American universities. Airbus' planes could be favored
over Boeing. Intellectual property laws may not be enforced as aggressively.
China "can start to restrict its market even more," Prasad says. "There's a lot
they can do."

Meanwhile, higher prices on Chinese imports to the U.S. will affect
working-class Americans more disproportionately, possibly leading to concerns
about inflation.

Q: What is Trump's endgame?

A: Despite Trump's tweets that were antagonistic toward China, few economists
expect him to risk a full trade war. But if he followed through on some campaign
promises -- such as tariffs or formally declaring China a currency manipulator
-- "that'd signal an opening salvo," Prasad says.

Economists say Trump may be approaching the issue as a business dealer, bluffing
and stretching boundaries to extract better deals.

But the United States' need for access to the Chinese market isn't waning, and
Trump must tread carefully in his dealings, they say.

Q: China's economy is slowing down. Why is this worrisome to Americans?

A: The Chinese economy continues to grow, just not at the rate it  did a few
years ago.

A slowing Chinese economy would mean less global demand for oil, steel, food and
other commodities as well as fewer purchases of American real estate and luxury
goods, and perhaps even a slowdown in China's purchase of U.S. Treasuries.

Q: How is China trying to spark faster economic growth?

A: Facing more competition from countries with low-cost labor, such as Vietnam
and Bangladesh, the Chinese government has started to shift from an
export-driven economy to one fueled by domestic consumption.

But the initiative has been slow to take effect as the Chinese are known to be
aggressive savers.

"They don't have Medicare or Social Security," Guillen says. "China has 400
million people still living in poverty in rural areas. They're not ready to move
toward a consumer-oriented economy."

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo GREG BAKER, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             392 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Pokémon Go tops Google 2016 in search

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 135 words


The viral sensation Pokémon Go was the top Google search term worldwide this
year. Pokémon Go was a summer phenomenon, as players strolled across cities and
landmarks in search of Pokémon. Apple's iPhone 7 was the second most popular
global search in 2016, followed by President-elect Donald Trump, Prince (who
died in April) and Powerball. In the U.S., Powerball was the most popular
search, followed by Prince, Hurricane Matthew, Pokémon Go and mobile game
Slither.io.

IMF's Lagarde guilty of negligence in France

A special French court on Monday convicted the International Monetary Fund's
Christine Lagarde of negligence for her role in a controversial 2008 arbitration
award to a businessman. Lagarde, who was France's finance minister at the time,
was spared punishment -- and a criminal record -- in the case.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: MONEYLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             393 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

CRITIC'S CORNER

BYLINE: Robert Bianco, @BiancoRobert, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 221 words


Michael Bublé/Tony Bennett NBC, 8 ET/PT

NBC celebrates the holiday -- and a major milestone for an iconic singer -- with
a two-part burst of music specials. Up first is Michael Bublé Sings and Swings
(8 ET/PT), which brings the popular performer back to NBC for his sixth annual
special. That's followed by a two-hour salute to an American great with Tony
Bennett Celebrates 90: The Best Is Yet to Come (9 ET/PT). Shot at Radio City
Music Hall, the concert is scheduled to include performances from Bennett and
Bublé, along with Lady Gaga, Billy Joel, Elton John, Diana Krall, k.d. lang,
Leslie Odom Jr. and Stevie Wonder.

Terry Crews Saves Christmas CW, 8 ET/PT

There's not a lot of innovation going on in the reality genre these days, but
this  CW effort promises to at least put a funny twist on a familiar format: in
this case, a Hotel Hell-type makeover. Here, the folks being fixed are people
struggling to pull off a memorable Christmas, and the man setting them straight
is Brooklyn Nine-Nine star Terry Crews.

Shrek the Halls ABC, 8:30 ET/PT

ABC offers another airing of this entertaining extension of the film franchise.
It's a bit shy on holiday spirit, but it's an amusing, condensed version of the
film's pleasures -- including performances from original stars Mike Myers, Eddie
Murphy, Cameron Diaz and Antonio Banderas.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo DreamWorks Animation

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             394 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Repeat after us: 7 quotable lines from 'Rogue One'

BYLINE: Carly Mallenbaum, @thatgirlcarly, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 390 words


Warning: A few spoilers follow.

"Do or do not, there is no try." "These aren't the droids you're looking for."
"It's a trap!"

Even a Star Wars novice probably knows that when someone utters those lines,
he's referencing a galaxy far, far away.

So what phrases will the new Star Wars spinoff Rogue One: A Star Wars Story add
to our pop culture lexicon? Here are seven lines movie fans might work into
conversation after leaving theaters:

1 "I'm one with the Force. The Force is with me."

This line, repeated by the blind warrior Chirrut Îmwe (Donnie Yen), is like the
mantra version of popular Star Wars salutation "May the Force be with you." Who
knows? Maybe nerdy yoga instructors will start saying it.

2 "Are you kidding me? I'm blind."

Chirrut says this as he's being captured by Imperial troops, who place a bag
over his head to obstruct the vision he doesn't have.

3 "Congratulations on being rescued."

This is droid K-2SO's (Alan Tudyk) first time speaking in the movie, and one of
many deadpan lines he delivers. He says it to Jyn Erso (Felicity Jones), right
after clotheslining her.

4 "Rebellions are built on hope."

Rebels Jyn and Cassian Andor (Diego Luna) both wind up delivering this rallying
cry. The line is memorable because it's an obvious precursor to the movie set
right after it: 1977's Star Wars: A New Hope. The quote is also the title of a
moody composition on the film's soundtrack.

5 "There's a fresh one if you mouth off again."

The giant Rebel droid delivers another laugh-out-loud line after he smacks his
friend Cassian in the face, an attempt to convince Imperial droids that he's on
their side. The quote was actually improvised by Tudyk, as are most of the best
lines in the movie. Another winning quote from Kaytoo comes after Jyn explains
she has a blaster, because she "found" it: "I find that answer vague and
unconvincing."

6 "It's not a problem if you don't look up."

Jyn, who hasn't always concerned herself with politics, explains to Cassian how
she has learned to live with Imperial flags. It's a line about privileged
ignorance.

7 "Be careful not to choke on your convictions."

Darth Vader (voice of James Earl Jones) delivers this pun before choking Orson
Krennic (Ben Mendelsohn). Another ominous line Vader has delivered before
choking someone? "You have failed me for the last time," in The Empire Strikes
Back.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jonathan Olley & Leah Evans, Lucasfilm

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             395 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Rousey's MMA career includes humble beginning

BYLINE: Martin Rogers, @mrogersUSAT, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 693 words


The story of Ronda Rousey's fighting career is full of unusual twists, but one
of the most bizarre came at the beginning.

Rousey's next fight against Amanda Nunes will headline UFC 207 on Dec. 30, in
front of a packed Las Vegas crowd and a global television audience. Her first
was at a makeshift venue at a Californian country club, and it nearly didn't
happen.

Thanks, primarily, to a 60-pound pit bull named Porkchop.

In March 2011, Rousey, a former Olympic judo bronze medalist, was preparing for
her first steps into mixed martial arts, chasing a dream despite the Ultimate
Fighting Championship not having a women's division.

Her professional debut was slated to take place at Braemar Country Club in
Tarzana, Calif., in front of a tiny audience, with a guaranteed purse of $400
plus an additional $400 for a win.

However, it would take a sneaky bit of chicanery at the weigh-in for Rousey to
be able to compete against, and ultimately defeat, Ediane Gomes.

In her book, My Fight/Your Fight, Rousey described how two days before the bout
her dog, Mochi, had gotten into a fight of her own -- with Porkchop -- owned by
Rousey's then-roommate, Wetzel Parker. As Rousey intervened, Porkchop was "still
in fight mode" and bit her foot and shin.

"There was a hole in the arch of my foot," Rousey wrote. "Flesh was hanging off
the base of my toes. A split second later, blood filled the holes and started
gushing onto the carpet."

A trip to the emergency room, then another to a plastic surgeon, meant that
Rousey's foot was stitched up before she prepared to tip the scales. Despite
blinding pain, she was determined to have her initial MMA scrap, even though
athletic commission rules forbade fighters from competing with stitches.

To stop the fight doctor and commission officials from paying too much attention
to her foot, Rousey came up with the idea of loudly announcing she needed to
weigh-in naked, as fighters sometimes do when they are near the weight limit,
with towels held up around them for privacy.

In the confusion, the doctor and officials barely noticed the inflammation and
stitches across the top of her foot, and the match went ahead.

The exchange is highlighted in an upcoming documentary about Rousey that
features fascinating and previously unseen footage of the early part of her
career.

Filmmakers Gary Stretch and Pete Antico followed Rousey for five years to
collect material for their  movie about her, titled Through My Father's Eyes,
which will be released by Wrekin Hill Entertainment in the spring.

According to Stretch, a former world champion boxer, and Antico, a renowned
Hollywood stuntman, the remarkable scene at Rousey's first fight perfectly
highlighted how much -- and how quickly -- her life had changed.

"It was a tiny little venue. I remember as she was warming up out the back you
could see a forklift truck and machinery behind her," Stretch told USA TODAY
Sports. "Everyone has to start out somewhere, and that was the beginning for
her. The amazing thing about it is that just a couple of years later she was a
huge superstar and a household name."

Antico said, "Ronda had the burning desire to be great; that was within her
heart. But at that time of that first fight there was no outlet for it. It
didn't seem possible for a woman to become rich and famous in the sport. Women's
MMA was just getting started. She made it happen. Everything that has happened
since and the way the sport has grown ... that is a testament to her passion and
dedication."

Rousey defeated Gomes, who later went on to compete in the Invicta MMA
organization and had lost to Nunes in 2010, via her signature armbar maneuver in
25 seconds.

And thus began the process of dominating the world of women's MMA, a juggernaut
that suffered its first derailment in Australia in November 2015, when Rousey
was stunningly knocked out by Holly Holm.

The Nunes fight offers a chance for redemption as well as an opportunity to
reclaim the belt, which Holm surrendered to Miesha Tate, before Tate lost it to
Nunes over the summer.

It will be one of the year's most-watched MMA contests, and a world removed from
the low-key inception of her career in the octagon.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo 2013 photo by Jayne Kamin-Oncea, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             396 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Obama's record wave of clemency;
In last-minute push, he issues 78 pardons and 153 commutations

BYLINE: Gregory Korte, @gregorykorte, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 712 words


President Obama granted 78 pardons and 153 commutations on Monday -- a
single-day record for the use of presidential clemency power as Obama engages in
a historic end-of-term clemency surge.

With just 32 days left in office, Obama more than doubled the number of pardons
he granted in the previous seven years.

And he continued his vigorous use of a lesser form of his clemency power, having
now commuted the sentences of 1,176 federal prison inmates -- mostly for long,
mandatory-minimum drug sentences imposed during a war on drugs waged over the
past three decades. But time is running out for Obama to address the backlog of
clemency cases at the Office of the Pardon Attorney. As of Nov.30, there were
1,937 pardon petitions and 13,042 applications for a commutation of sentence
still pending.

"We need the president to pick up the pace of commutations before he leaves
office," said Michael Collins of the Drug Policy Alliance. "He is to be
applauded for his actions thus far, but we know that the next occupant of the
White House is unsympathetic to the cause of mass incarceration, and to the
plight of those serving unjust sentences in federal prison."

Obama began his clemency initiative in 2014 as a way to shorten the sentences of
drug offenders given what he considered to be unduly harsh sentences.

That effort has felt a new urgency since the election of Donald Trump, who has
named as his attorney general one of the biggest critics of Obama's use of
commutations.

"The president is playing a dangerous game to advance his political ideology,"
Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., said after Obama granted a single-day record 214
commutations in August.

Overall, including both full pardons and commutations, Obama has now granted the
most  acts of clemency since President Harry Truman.

With more than half of Obama's clemency actions taking place in his last year in
office, pardon expert P.S. Ruckman Jr. called it "the greatest last-minute surge
in history" -- even exceeding President Bill Clinton's use of pardons in the
last months of his presidency. But unlike Clinton, who used his pardon power to
help relatives and political allies, Obama's pardons on Monday did not include
any of the more politically charged cases that activists have been urging him to
grant  presidential mercy. (Former secretary of State Hillary Clinton and former
National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden have not applied for
clemency, and Obama says all pardons must go through the application process.)

Instead, the list of Obama's newest pardons reflects a variety of federal crimes
including drug dealing, bid rigging, illegal gambling, possession of untaxed
alcohol and the illegal importation of tortoises.

Yes, tortoises. Ralph Hoekstra of Huntington Beach, Calif., was sentenced to a
year of probation and a $5,000 fine in 2005 after pleading guilty to buying
dwarf Indian star tortoises off of a reptile enthusiast website.

Obama's actions followed a pattern of pre-holiday clemency that critics have
called "part of a broken process." Although Obama has begun to shorten prison
sentences through commutations more regularly, his full pardons have largely
been a once-a-year phenomenon. Aside from four Iranian Americans pardoned as
part of a hostage swap that accompanied the Iran nuclear deal, his last four
rounds of pardons have come the week before Christmas.

With 148 total pardons, that means Obama still has a way to go  to meet his
promise  that the number of pardons will be "roughly in line with what other
presidents have done."

President George W. Bush pardoned 189 people, and Clinton pardoned 396. Among
modern presidents, only one-term President George H.W. Bush pardoned fewer.

In a blog post, White House Counsel Neil Eggleston said he expects Obama to
grant more pardons and commutations before leaving office. But he also stressed
that the use of clemency was a stopgap solution to a systemic problem.

"The mercy that the president has shown his 1,324 clemency recipients is
remarkable, but we must remember that clemency is a tool of last resort and that
only Congress can achieve the broader reforms needed to ensure over the long run
that our criminal justice system operates more fairly and effectively in the
service of public safety," Eggleston wrote.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Mark Wilson, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             397 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

What does China's smog mean for America's role?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 369 words


FACEBOOK

Smog and pollution blanketed cities across northern China Monday, renewing
debate over U.S. role in resolving global environmental issues.

To me this smog problem in China proves that President-elect Donald Trump is
correct. Why should Americans contribute more of our hard-earned tax dollars to
China or India?

They need to clean up their own air.

John James

We still contribute more carbon dioxide emissions per capita than China. Coal is
on its way out. Innovation in clean energy can provide jobs, profits and clean
air. It is a win-win. America must lead or fall behind and lose to innovators
elsewhere.

Scott Hardy

Welcome to Donald Trump's America, where the Environmental Protection Agency is
not needed and global warming is a hoax.

David Apkarian

The issue of pollution in China is why it is good that in the USA we pay
attention to our environment. Not one U.S. city is listed in the top 1,000 of
the world's worst polluters, according to the World Health Organization.

It is worth the money that this country spends to be green.

Bruce Mort

TWITTER

We asked our followers what role U.S. should play in the global climate fight.

Let's start with our new administration acknowledging there is a problem.

@LindsayAlderman

The U.S. should play no role.

@acarroll_1114

Our incoming president and his Cabinet will sadly do nothing about climate
change or environmental issues. So, moot point.

@BuellaMarie

Heavy export fees for anything being shipped to America from China. Until the
pollution is under control.

@cajuntrumpster

For more, follow @USATOpinion or #tellusatoday on Twitter.

LETTERS

I find President-elect Donald Trump's decision to nominate the leader of one of
the world's largest and most environmentally disastrous oil companies to serve
as secretary of State unacceptable. ExxonMobil CEO Rex Tillerson's nomination is
a direct threat to the clean air, clean water and response to climate change
necessary for the health of Americans.

ExxonMobil not only deliberately concealed its knowledge of climate change for
decades, but is also responsible for one of the costliest environmental
disasters in history. We need foreign policy leaders who will address the
climate change threat.

Sarah Willey

Florissant, Mo.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             398 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Scorsese's religious 'Silence' is golden;
Tale of Jesuit priests in Japan is an epic exploration of faith

BYLINE: Brian Truitt

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 527 words


With the religious historical drama Silence, Martin Scorsese proves he's as
masterful a filmmaker with men of God as he is with gangsters.

As surprising as a movie about Christian priests in 17th-century Japan is from
the Oscar-winning director of The Departed and Goodfellas, Silence (***1/2 out
of four; rated R; in theaters Friday in New York and Los Angeles, expands
nationally through mid-January) also marks one of the deeper and most thoughtful
projects in Scorsese's career. It feels as though his entire Hollywood career
has culminated in this grand quest, which, while excessively long, effectively
explores the brutal costs of unbending faith.

The opening scene's disembodied heads foreshadow the horror that faces the
movie's main holy men: Father  Cristovão Ferreira (Liam Neeson) is on a Jesuit
missionary mission in Japan (at a time when Catholic teaching is illegal), where
he sees what happens to those who convert from Buddhism. Back in Portugal,
Fathers Sebastian Rodrigues (Andrew Garfield) and Francisco Garupe (Adam Driver)
are told their mentor has turned his back on God and is living as an apostatized
priest, and the pair decide to travel to the Far East to save Ferreira.

It's not an easy trip, and on their search, Rodrigues and Garupe preach the
gospel to villagers who keep their religion hidden because they have no other
choice. Rodrigues splits  from his partner and undergoes tests of his beliefs in
a country where he's tantamount to an outlaw.

Based on Shusaku Endo's 1966 novel of historical fiction, Silence marks
Garfield's second role as a devoted Christian this awards season -- he's also
great in the war film Hacksaw Ridge, yet the actor generates genuine emotion as
a guy who's fighting not just for his life but also his spiritual well-being.
Although Neeson's character is off screen for much of the story, he also gets to
dig into the fine line between faith and survival.

The cast that makes the movie, though, are the Japanese actors who will be fresh
faces to American eyes. Shinya Tsukamoto gives a heartbreaking performance as an
unwavering Christian convert, Yosuke Kubozuka co-stars as a man whose loyalties
are constantly shifting, Tadanobu Asano is coolly menacing as Rodrigues'
interpreter once he's captured, and Issey Ogata, a comedian in his home country,
plays a powerful inquisitor who's charmingly eccentric though viciously
punishing.

Scorsese, who co-wrote the screenplay with Jay Cocks, maintains the Jesuit point
of view through Rodrigues' struggles, but there are no real protagonists or
antagonists in this tale, which does drag over nearly three hours. Although
ferocious in their handling of outsiders (from scalding hot-water torture to
upside-down hangings), the priests' Japanese foes simply take action they deem
appropriate against those whom they see as invading their country.

It's the converted people, those wanting to pray to God instead of Buddha and
caught between these opposing forces, whose plights are the most arduous: At
what point and after how much pain would you denounce your  core belief system?
In their religious passion, Scorsese makes his point in a most powerful fashion.


LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Kerry Brown

DOCUMENT-TYPE: MOVIE REVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             399 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Sports spotlight hits Nashville;
January's college football awards show latest event to bolster city's profile

BYLINE: Joe Rexrode, @joerexrode, USA TODAY Network

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 639 words


Imagine the possibilities. All 128 Football Bowl Subdivision coaches in one
place, and a national TV audience.

That's what we'll have in Nashville on Jan. 10, the Grand Ole Opry House filled
with every program leader in the sport, including the two who played for the
national title the night before -- meaning Nick Saban should be very ornery,
unless he somehow doesn't end up winning it all and is downgraded to nuclear.

I'm guessing the first American Football Coaches Association awards show (8 p.m.
ET, CBS Sports Network) won't be exactly like the Oscars but will have star
power (and more than a quarter-billion dollars of annual salary in that room).
For example, the best former Alabama offensive coordinator who went on to become
head coach at Florida Atlantic will be on hand.

You know, Howard Schnellenberger, one of several legends who is expected, along
with Phillip Fulmer, Gene Stallings and Vince Dooley. But Lane Kiffin, the
second-best former Alabama offensive coordinator to take over at FAU, is back in
the head coaching game just in time. How about a We Are the Champions duet with
Butch Jones?

Perhaps Jim Harbaugh and Saban can lead a Jets vs. Sharks number with the Big
Ten and Southeastern Conference coaches. Mike Leach in a pirate uniform, P.J.
Fleck rowing the boat, Derek Mason dropping the anchor, the possibilities are
endless.

This brainchild of local media executive Greg Hill could be fun -- and it will
stress local, with ex-Tennessee Titans star and 1995 Heisman Trophy winner Eddie
George hosting. Even if it's not quite as wacky as we'd like, it will count as
the latest example of Nashville becoming one of the country's major sports hubs.
Nashville has been a leader in music, entertainment and food, and the sports
scene is ascending.

It's not just that the two pro franchises are trending upward, the Titans the
most pleasant surprise in the NFL this season and the Predators an NHL Stanley
Cup hopeful despite an uneven start. It's not just that the area is loaded with
quality college men's and women's basketball teams.

It's the Sounds, too, offering a top-notch baseball experience at First
Tennessee Park. It's the St.Jude Rock 'n' Roll Nashville Marathon, luring 30,000
runners each year.

It's soccer, with a United Soccer League franchise coming in and an ongoing push
for an MLS team. Monday came the announcement that Nissan Stadium would host a
2017 CONCACAF Gold Cup doubleheader featuring the U.S. national team.

"An important step," said Butch Spyridon, president of the Nashville Convention
and Visitors Corp. "We've had plenty of friendlies, but this is our first truly
competitive game that counts."

The Nashville area boasts the World Series MVP (Ben Zobrist), the American
League's almost-MVP (Mookie Betts) and college football's national coach of the
year (Colorado's Mike MacIntyre, formerly of Brentwood Academy and Vanderbilt).

Bridgestone Arena is in the third of 12 consecutive years of having the
Southeastern Conference men's or women's basketball tournament, and it hosted
the women's Final Four in 2014 and is a men's NCAA first-weekend site in 2018.

This AFCA event is important for the city, George said, citing an expected 6,000
coaches overall who will attend the annual convention Jan. 8-11.

"This will be good for us on every level," Spyridon said of an event Nashville
is working to land on a rotating basis from here. "Having it be a regular
occurrence will be even better for us. This further solidifies our big-event and
sports reputation."

The AFCA awards have been around since 1935 and have always been valued because
the folks in the competitive arena do the choosing.

But now with a TV show? How about Bret Bielema handing out awards in a Santa
outfit? So many possibilities.

Rexrode is a columnist for The Tennessean in Nashville, part of the USA TODAY
Network.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo 2014 photo by Frederick M. Brown, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             400 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Apple appeals EU's $14.5 billion ruling on Irish taxes

BYLINE: Brett Molina, @brettmolina23, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 336 words


Apple and Ireland  are appealing an August ruling by the European Union
requiring the tech giant to pay $14.5 billion in back taxes.

"The Commission took unilateral action and retroactively changed the rules,
disregarding decades of Irish tax law, U.S. tax law, as well as global consensus
on tax policy, that everyone has relied on," Apple said in a statement Monday.
Apple (AAPL) shares ended up 0.6% at $116.64.

In August, the European Commission concluded Apple was receiving illegal tax
benefits in Ireland for two decades. A three-year investigation found Apple's
effective corporate tax rate on its European profits dropped from 1% in 2003 to
0.0005% in 2014.

Apple vowed to fight the ruling, and the Cupertino, Calif., tech giant did so in
an appeal filed Monday.

"Apple is not an outlier in any sense that matters to the law," Apple general
counsel Bruce Sewell told Reuters. "Apple is a convenient target because it
generates lots of headlines."

In a separate statement, Ireland's Finance Ministry says the European Commission
"misunderstood" the facts of the case and Irish law.

"Ireland did not give favorable tax treatment to Apple," reads the ministry's
statement. "The full amount of tax was paid in this case and no State aid was
provided. Ireland does not do deals with taxpayers."

The European Commission referred back to its August statement. Margrethe
Vestager, the EU Competition Commissioner who oversees antitrust and
competition, in September told USA TODAY: "We find that due to two tax rulings,
Apple has received illegal state aid from Ireland in forms of taxes not being
paid. And, of course, these taxes have to be paid."

The Obama administration has also supported Apple in this case, a contrast with
the criticism leveled by some U.S. lawmakers -- including President-elect Donald
Trump -- that Apple has avoided some U.S. income tax by using offshore entities,
including those in Ireland.

In a statement, the U.S. Treasury Department said the ruling will threaten
America's corporate tax base.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Motley Fool

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             401 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

MAKING WAVES

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 191 words


Camila Cabello won't be harmonizing with the band anymore. The remaining members
of Fifth Harmony announced via social media Sunday that Cabello has left the
female singing group. "We wish her well," the band's statement read.  "We will
continue on. We are four strong, committed women who will continue with Fifth
Harmony as well as our solo endeavors."

ROYALS REPORT

HAPPY HOLIDAYS!

Duchess Kate, Prince William and Prince Harry were in the giving spirit Monday.
The royals hit the Harrow Club in west London to speak with young people for a
holiday party celebrating charities like Heads Together, the royals' mental
health campaign. Here, the Duchess of Cambridge greets one of the partygoers.

CAUGHT IN THE ACT

Actors Dev Patel, Nicole Kidman and David Wenham had a roaring time Monday at
the Sydney premiere of 'Lion.' The co-stars were snapped huddling  and sharing a
laugh on the red carpet.

HOW WAS YOUR DAY?

GOOD DAY J. Cole

Cole world! J. Cole clinched his fourth No. 1 album on the Billboard 200 with '4
Your Eyez Only,' selling 492,000 equivalent album units in the week ending Dec.
15, according to Nielsen Music.

Compiled by Jaleesa M. Jones

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Amy Harris, Invision/AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LIFELINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             402 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           December 20, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

FIRST WORD

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 221 words


I THINK EVERYBODY KNOWS THE HEAD COACH ALWAYS GETS THE BLAME, BUT HE'S NOT THE
ONLY ONE THAT MADE MISTAKES. ... IT (UPSETS ME) BECAUSE AS A PLAYER YOU HAVE A
LOT OF RESPONSIBILITY. YOU HATE TO SEE THE HEAD MAN TAKE IT ALL."

Jaguars defensive tackle Roy Miller, after coach Gus Bradley was fired following
the team's ninth consecutive loss.

MAGIC NUMBERS

8

Games in which the Heat have failed to make 60% of their free throw attempts, an
NBA high.

$1.8 billion

Net worth of Vincent Viola, owner of the NHL's Panthers and President-elect
Donald Trump's choice for secretary of the Army.

TWEET OF THE DAY

@EzekielElliott

All these young guys deciding to skip their bowl games. I would do anything to
play one more time with my brothers in that scarlet and gray

Ezekiel Elliott, the Cowboys rookie running back who attended Ohio State.

LAST WORD

"THIS PROJECT IS NOTHING MORE THAN WELFARE FOR MILLIONAIRES. RIGHT NOW, BECAUSE
OF RECKLESS SPENDING BY CAREER POLITICIANS, WE CAN'T EVEN AFFORD THE CORE
FUNCTIONS OF GOVERNMENT, LET ALONE SPEND MILLIONS ON SOCCER STADIUMS."

Missouri Gov.-elect Eric Greitens, who opposes taxpayer money to help build a
soccer stadium in St. Louis. The Missouri Development Finance Board is expected
to vote Tuesday on a request to approve $40 million in state tax credits for the
stadium.

Compiled by USA TODAY Sports

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Miller by Kim Klement, USA TODAY Sports

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SPORTSLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             403 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

'Rogue One' lights up the box office

BYLINE: Brian Truitt, @briantruitt, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 329 words


The box office has gone galactic once again.

Following Star Wars: The Force Awakens' record-setting $248 million opening a
year ago, Rogue One: A Star Wars Story obliterated the competition with a $155
million debut, according to studio estimates from comScore. The haul makes it
the second-best December start in history, the 12th-largest opening of all time
and the third-biggest this year behind Captain America: Civil War ($179.1
million) and Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice ($166 million).

"If not for The Force Awakens, our minds would be absolutely blown by a $155
million opening in December," says comScore senior media analyst Paul
Dergarabedian, who notes that before last year, no December movie had ever
opened with more than $100 million. (The previous Christmastime champ was 2012's
The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey with $84.6 million.)

Rogue One, the first standalone Star Wars film,  follows a scrappy Rebel
Alliance unit stealing the plans for the Empire's Death Star -- leading up to
the events of George Lucas' original 1977 movie. Rogue got a boost from critical
support (84% positive reviews at aggregate site Rotten Tomatoes) and played well
with audiences (who gave it an A grade at CinemaScore).

Disney also had the No. 2 movie with another strong outing for animated
adventure Moana, which earned $11.7 million ($161.9 million to date). The T.J.
Miller holiday comedy Office Christmas Party was third with $8.5 million.

The drama Collateral Beauty, which features Will Smith as an advertising
executive visited by Love, Time and Death, was a bust,  mustering only $7
million. The magical Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them rounded out the top
five with $5 million ($207.7 million to date).

Among awards season fare, Manchester By the Sea went nationwide and pulled in
$4.2 million ($14 million total since last month's limited release), and the
musical La La Land racked up $4million as it expanded to 200 locations.

Final figures are due  Monday.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             404 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Corpus Christi lifts citywide water ban

BYLINE: Corpus Christi Caller-Times

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 331 words


All restrictions on the use of water in Corpus Christi have been lifted after a
four-day chemical contamination emergency, authorities announced Sunday.

The system is "full use," Mayor Dan McQueen said.

Residents can use tap water for drinking, bathing, washing dishes and in food
preparation. City officials advised residents to run their taps for two or three
minutes to flush any water in the lines during the crisis.

Texas Commission on Environmental Quality issued an update following the city's
announcement.

"The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the Texas Commission on Environmental
Quality and the City of Corpus Christi have concurred on the decision to lift
the tap water restrictions citywide effective immediately," the news release
stated.

McQueen said he could feel the pain in the community.

"I hope you guys understand and feel the emotion I have right now," he said.
"This certainly isn't something the city wanted to do. It's the 18th of
December. We have Christmas right around the corner. My heart goes out to
everybody in our city right now. I apologize. I apologize personally."

City officials placed the city under a water use ban late Wednesday after they
learned a chemical tank containing an asphalt emulsifying agent leaked into
water lines in the industrial district.

With water service now restored, the focus of the Texas Commission on
Environmental Quality and U.S. Environmental Protection Agency can shift to
learning who is responsible for chemicals Indulin AA-86 and hydrochloric acid,
which leaked into the water system.

One big task is determining whether the contamination was confined to the water
lines at the site or if the chemicals made it into the city's water system.
Authorities also are trying to determine how much of the chemical mixture leaked
from the tank and when the contamination started.

Valero, which leases the property to Ergon Asphalt and Emulsions, released a
timeline that shows the first signs of contamination surfaced on Nov. 23.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             405 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Portland, Indianapolis top airport rankings

BYLINE: Nancy Trejos, @nancytrejos, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 977 words


Airports are packed with travelers, yet satisfaction with the facilities has
increased, according to J.D. Power's 2016 North America Airport Satisfaction
Study.

Overall traveler satisfaction reached 731 out of 1,000 points. That's up from
725 in 2015.

Overall satisfaction with large airports increased 5 points year over year to
724.

Satisfaction with medium-sized airports is 760, an 8-point rise. The increase
comes even as airports post a 5% to 6% annual spike in the number of travelers.

The study measures travelers' satisfaction with airports across North America on
the following factors: accessibility, check-in and baggage check process,
security screening, shopping, terminal facilities and baggage claim.

"Airports have caught on to the idea that they're not just a place where people
go from one place to another," says Michael Taylor, J.D. Powers' director of
airport practice. "There's an opportunity to entertain people, sell them
something. ... They found out it isn't just quick-service restaurants and coffee
shops and a place to buy a newspaper."

Taylor says, the check-in process also has become more automated, eliminating
what was once a huge pain point.

"There's so much you can do before you get to the airport," Taylor says.

Large- and medium-sized airports saw improvements in overall satisfaction,
though there was an 8% increase in security wait times over last year.

Many airports are undergoing renovations, causing some strain. Many plans for
renovations were halted after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.

But airlines are profitable again and willing to spend money on improvements at
gates.

"It's quite astounding how much money is being spent at airports," Taylor says.

The biggest year-over-year improvement in passenger satisfaction came in the
baggage claim category, which increased 11 points. Food, beverage and retail was
second with a 10-point increase.

Many airports added food outlets with localized cuisine. For instance, Miami
International  has added Cuban and Caribbean restaurants. Houston Hobby has more
barbecue eateries.

For the second consecutive year, Portland (Ore.) International  ranks highest
among large airports. Large airports are classified as those with more than
7million passengers a year.

Indianapolis International Airport ranks highest among medium-sized airports.

Mario Rodriguez, executive director of the Indianapolis Airport Authority, says
recent improvements at the facility included installing 300 additional charging
stations for mobile devices, more play areas for children and better food
options.

"We want to make sure that your experience from the airport all the way to the
city is as uniform as possible, as pleasant as possible," he says.

Some more notable items:

The redesign of Terminal 2 at Los Angeles International Airport helped drive up
the satisfaction score by 32 points.

Atlanta's Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport saw its satisfaction
scores drop by 9points. More than 100 million people will have traveled through
that airport by the end of 2016. The airport has $6 billion worth of renovations
planned over the next 20 years.

Chicago's O'Hare Airport, often the source of much consternation because of
weather delays, benefited this year from fewer thunderstorms and snowstorms.

---

Overall satisfaction rankings: Large airports

(Based on a 1,000-point scale)

Portland (Ore.) International Airport 786

Tampa International Airport 775

(Las Vegas) McCarran International Airport 759

Orlando International Airport 751

Miami International Airport 750

San Diego International Airport 748

Salt Lake City International Airport 747

Toronto Pearson Airport 745

Washington Reagan National Airport 742

Chicago Midway Airport 741

Denver International Airport 738

Charlotte Douglas Airport 738

Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport 737

Phoenix Sky Harbor Airport 735

Minneapolis/St. Paul International Airport 734

Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport 734

Baltimore Washington International Airport 734

Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport 733

Honolulu International Airport 727

Washington Dulles Airport 726

San Francisco International Airport 725

Seattle-Tacoma International Airport 721

Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport 720

John F. Kennedy International Airport 713

Houston Bush Intercontinental Airport 709

Los Angeles International Airport  702

Chicago O'Hare Airport 689

Boston Logan Airport 689

Philadelphia International Airport 688

Newark Liberty International Airport 669

New York LaGuardia Airport 649

Large Airport Average 724

Medium airports

(Based on a 1,000-point scale)

Indianapolis International Airport 794

Buffalo Niagara International Airport 791

Fort Myers/Southwest Florida International Airport 790

Jacksonville International Airport 789

Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International Airport 783

Ontario International Airport 781

Palm Beach International Airport 780

Ted Stevens Anchorage International Airport 779

Raleigh-Durham International Airport 779

Eppley Airfield Airport 779

Nashville International Airport 777

Albuquerque International Sunport 777

Vancouver International Airport 776

Dallas Love Field Airport 775

Pittsburgh International Airport 772

Milwaukee-General Mitchell International Airport 772

San Antonio International Airport 767

Sacramento International Airport 767

John Wayne Orange County Airport 765

Hollywood Burbank Airport 764

San Jose International Airport 761

Austin-Bergstrom International Airport 761

Montréal-Pierre Elliott Trudeau International Airport 757

John Glenn Columbus International Airport 756

Calgary International Airport 756

Kansas City International Airport 744

Houston Hobby Airport 737

Louis Armstrong New Orleans International Airport 730

Lambert-St. Louis Airport 728

Oakland International Airport 726

Kahului Airport 724

Bradley International (Hartford/Springfield, Conn.) Airport 724

Cleveland Hopkins Airport 704

Medium Airport Average 760

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Indianapolis Airport Authority

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             406 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Santa Claus offers business start-up advice

BYLINE: Rhonda Abrams, @RhondaAbrams, Special for USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 511 words


No one ever thinks about Santa as an experienced business owner, but he's been
running a successful enterprise for centuries. So before the holiday crunch, I
sat down with Santa over a cup of hot chocolate and asked for his small-business
start-up advice.

I also asked for a red Tesla. I'll see if Santa comes through with the Tesla,
but in the meantime, you can learn from this great entrepreneur now. The jolly
old elf's advice:

Find a niche

"When we started out," Santa explained. "I wanted to deliver a gift to every
person on the planet. Mrs. Claus wisely advised that I was thinking too big.
'Don't try to be all things to all people,' she said. 'Focus on a smaller
group.' We settled on children who celebrate Christmas and were well-behaved."
Like Santa, your startup has a better chance of success if you focus on a
specific market segment, or niche.

Start lean

"I had dreams of developing all kinds of toys, but had no cash," said Santa.
"Being cash-strapped actually worked in our favor. It forced me to focus on
launching one core product first -- just basic wooden blocks. That established
my reputation. Over time, we expanded, based on learning from real customers.
When you start out, get your product or service out the door and later make
improvements. And wooden blocks are still a hit, especially with our youngest
demographic."

Develop a  business plan

Part of Santa's wild success stems from his ability to plan, follow through,
and, when necessary, change course. "When kids started playing on digital
devices," said Santa, "I was so worried that I lost weight. How was my workshop
going to survive?" Santa sat down and came up with a plan. He hired a team of
tech elves to develop electronic devices and apps.

Watch your  cash flow

"We do all of our business Dec. 24th," said Santa. "But we spend hundreds of
thousands of dollars months before that. We buy materials in August, the elves
start crafting toys in September, and I pay a ton of overtime in December. I
have to board the reindeer year round, Rudolph's nose keeps shorting out, and
vet bills are crazy. Thank goodness for the Affordable Reindeer Act."

When it comes to cash flow, make cash projections of when money will come in and
go out. Don't keep too much inventory, which ties up money. Get a line of credit
to pay for expenses when income lags and save during high-income periods.

Get help

Most people don't realize that Mrs. Claus is not only Santa's wife but also his
CTO (chief toy officer). He relies on her, his team of well-trained elves, and
of course, his reindeer.

You can't do everything yourself, especially as your start-up grows. You have to
hire good people and trust them to do their jobs. You don't have to completely
relinquish the reins -- only Santa gets to fly the sleigh -- but you do have to
delegate at some point.

Abrams is the author of 19 books, including Successful Business Plan: Secrets &
Strategies now in its sixth edition. Find Abrams at
facebook.com/RhondaAbramsSmallBusiness. Register for Rhonda's free
small-business tips newsletter at www.PlanningShop.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Getty Images/iStockphoto

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             407 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Travelers, beware! Hacking lurks in Wi-Fi, plugs and ports

BYLINE: Christopher Elliott

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 1003 words


Last time I rented a car, its onboard infotainment system offered to pair with
my iPhone, and I instinctively pushed the "yes" button.

Wrong answer.

Such convenient connections can be a trap for travelers, experts warn. The
Federal Trade Commission recently sounded the alarm on smartphones interfacing
with the onboard computers of rental cars, saying it could expose your personal
information to future renters, employees or even hackers. There are other
sources of danger for your data, including those charging stations at the
airport and, of course, those "free" Internet hot spots in your hotel lobby.

Bottom line: You need to practice safe connecting with that gleaming new
smartphone you got for the holidays. Tell you how in a second.

"Smart systems installed in vehicles provide a new way for hackers to steal
information or install dangerous software on your phone," warns Henry Carter, a
computer science professor at Villanova University. "A malicious application
could theoretically be installed that would automatically tamper with any mobile
devices that were connected to the vehicle."

I haven't received any complaints from car renters about malicious software, but
that doesn't mean data haven't been compromised.

Cars are essentially computers on wheels, says John Michelsen, chief product
officer at Zimperium, an enterprise mobile security company. Consider the Ford
F-150, whose onboard computer system has 150 million lines of code. That's more
programming than a Boeing 787, which has 7 million lines of code. You don't know
what the computer will do with the data you shared once you return the car to
the lot, and chances are, neither does the car rental company.

"You may be prompted to 'trust this computer' when plugging in your phone," he
says. "It's best to not trust it."

What else shouldn't you trust? The "free" USB charging station at the airport.
Plug in your phone or tablet and an infected station can take over your device
via something called "juice jacking." I'm not making this up. Juice jacking is a
real thing.

"It's a potential vulnerability," says Seth Ruden, a senior fraud consultant at
ACI Worldwide, an electronic payment systems company. "Some organizations have
demonstrated that juice jacking can access private or sensitive information in a
device, while physical access to its port can be one of the most high-value
avenues to exploit any weakness or vulnerability the device has."

Again, no one I know has been juice-jacked, but that doesn't mean it can't
happen.

"You are at risk. Simple as that," says Chris Roberts, chief security architect
at Acalvio, a developer of advanced threat detection and defense solutions.
"Charging stations are nothing more than potential data-harvesting points."

Scared yet? Well, those two threats pale compared with the "free" wireless
networks at hotels and airports, according to experts.

"There's significant risk with using Wi-Fi at airports, hotels and cafes to
access the Internet," says Robert D'Ovidio, an associate professor of criminal
justice at Drexel University who specializes in cybercrime. The risk is from
poor authentication procedures and unencrypted networks, which can expose your
username and password to hackers on the network.

Jerry Irvine, the chief information officer of Prescient Solutions, puts it
bluntly: "Do not use public Wi-Fi. Do not configure Wi-Fi networks or Bluetooth
to automatically connect to your device."

Have I heard from any readers who have been a victim of this? No. And as far as
I know, none of my personal information shared with my last rental car was
swiped by the bad guys.

But see, that's the nefarious thing about these attacks. They can't always be
traced back to a malicious hacker on the network or in the charging station or
on your car rental infotainment system. If your data have been compromised in
any way while you've traveled, this could be why, but you'll probably never
know.

There is something all of these threats have in common. They're all "free." The
infotainment system is part of the car. The recharging station is complimentary.
And the lobby Wi-Fi is almost always free.

Maybe there's a broader lesson about the hidden dangers of everything the travel
industry claims is free but is not. If you'd rather not hurt your brain thinking
about that, you can take steps to avoid these hacks, but perhaps the easiest way
is to walk away. To paraphrase Robert Heinlein, there ain't no such thing as
"free."

Elliott is a consumer advocate and editor at large for National Geographic
Traveler. Contact him at chris@elliott.org or visit elliott.org.

How to practice safe connecting

Use a virtual private network (VPN). A VPN creates a secure, encrypted tunnel
between your device and a server somewhere on the Internet. That makes it nearly
impossible for someone on the same network to eavesdrop on your network traffic.
Also, it can mask your physical location. "The added benefit of appearing to
still be in the city where you live even when you share something from abroad
makes it more difficult for people to pinpoint when you're home and when you're
out of town," says Chris Schmidt, the chief guidance officer for Codiscope, a
developer of security software.

Tell your phone to say "no." Disable location services, Bluetooth and Wi-Fi when
possible. Also, think about the permissions associated with third-party apps,
which may have access to your microphone, camera and contacts. "If you need to
play games on your mobile, then disable Internet access to those apps," says
Darren Hayes, a digital forensics and cybersecurity expert at Pace University.

Use caution in cars. When renting a car, either manually enter the address into
the car's navigation system or use your own device, but don't connect to the
infotainment system, says Judi Jacobs, founder of the technology education site
TheTechWizard.com. "Do not connect your phone via the USB outlet connection in a
rental car," she says. "Use the cigarette lighter, which only charges your
device without grabbing data."

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Getty Images/iStockphoto

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             408 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

With Fed hike done deal, economists eye next one

BYLINE: Paul Davidson, @Pdavidsonusat, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 427 words


The long-awaited interest rate hike is history after the Federal Reserve finally
pulled the trigger last week for just the second time in a decade. Now, it's on
to bigger and better things -- like judging if economic reports are strong
enough to warrant another rate increase as soon as March. This week brings a
batch of data on consumer spending, business investment, housing and the final
estimate of economic growth in the third quarter.

Existing home sales have been healthy, rising a total 6% in September and
October. And mortgage applications for home purchases advanced in November as
rising mortgage rates coaxed buyers into making a move before borrowing costs
increase further. But pending home sales, a gauge of future contracts, edged up
just 0.1% in October, notes Nomura economist Lewis Alexander. Economists
estimate the National Association of Realtors will report Wednesday that
existing home sales fell 1.4% last month to a still-solid seasonally adjusted
annual rate of 5.52 million.

The economy bounced back in the third quarter after nine listless months,
according to the Commerce Department's second estimate, growing 3.2% at an
annual rate, as strong consumer spending more than offset paltry business
investment. Commercial construction was revised up recently, suggesting
businesses spent a bit more than believed, Alexander says. Economists reckon
Commerce will report Thursday that growth last quarter will be revised up to
3.3%.

Consumer spending also got off to a good start in the fourth quarter with a 0.3%
increase in October on the heels of a 0.7% rise the previous month. Last week's
retail sales report for November was disappointing, showing sales ticked up just
0.1%. Economists figure Commerce will announce that total consumer spending
increased a healthy 0.4% last month.

Business investment has been sluggish the past couple of years, mostly because
of the oil downturn and a weak global economy and strong dollar that have hurt
U.S. exports.

But oil prices have risen this year and the dollar leveled off until a recent
rally.

Core business capital goods orders excluding aircraft and defense -- a proxy for
business capital spending -- has been choppy but rose 0.4% in October.
Economists expect Commerce's durable goods report to show core orders up 0.4%.
New home sales fell 1.9% in October but signs point to a rebound in November,
including the increase in mortgage applications. Economists estimate Commerce
will report Friday that new home sales rose 2.1% last month to a seasonally
adjusted annual rate of 575,000.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Nick Ut, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             409 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

We'll take a step- by-step approach

BYLINE: Pat Tiberi

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 343 words


Every day I hear from Ohioans and families nationwide who are paying higher
premiums, losing access to their doctors, and paying more for less quality care
under Obamacare.

My colleagues and I are listening to these stories, but you also don't need to
look any further than the pages of USA TODAY to find evidence of Obamacare's
broken promises.

Here are just two recent examples:

On Oct. 24, USA TODAY reported that more than one in five customers using
Healthcare.gov to shop for a plan would "only have one insurer from which to
choose coverage."

On Nov. 1, USA TODAY reported that "consumers in some parts of the country are
bracing for huge rate hikes."

Obamacare must be repealed and replaced with a patient-centered system with
high-quality and affordable care. Right now Obamacare's taxes -- taxes on
employers, individuals, providers and innovators -- are driving up costs and
limiting choices.

It is proof that putting government at the center of care just doesn't work.
That is why Republicans will move to eliminate these burdensome government
mandates and give people the freedom to choose the care that fits their needs.

To implement these reforms, we will take a deliberate, step-by-step approach to
deliver solutions that will give more flexibility to states, eliminate the
onerous tax hikes in Obamacare and make health insurance portable so that
patients and families, not the federal government, can be in charge of their own
care.

When I was in high school growing up in Columbus, Ohio, my dad lost his job. As
a result, we lost our health care plan. I know firsthand the uncertainty and
anxiety families feel, especially for the more than 20,000 people who woke up
one day with no coverage of their own because Obamacare's co-op collapsed in my
state.

Americans deserve a system that provides the flexible and affordable coverage
they need without fear of it collapsing under its own weight.

There is a better way than Obamacare, and Republicans plan to deliver.

Rep. Pat Tiberi, R-Ohio, is  chairman of the House Ways and Means Subcommittee
on Health.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             410 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Alan Tudyk's droid K-2SO gets C-3PO's A-OK;
Towering robot adds some light moments to 'Rogue One'

BYLINE: Carly Mallenbaum, @thatgirlcarly, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 529 words


The greatest feedback Alan Tudyk has received for playing K-2SO in Rogue One: A
Star Wars Story? Two words he heard after his movie's world premiere: "Screw
you."

OK, maybe that compliment needs some context.

It came from Anthony Daniels, the man who has embodied beloved protocol droid
C-3PO in every Star Wars movie -- an acknowledgment (via a robot pun) that
another actor could imbue a robot with humor and heart.

In Rogue One, Tudyk's towering Imperial security droid K-2SO (aka Kaytoo Esso)
has been reprogrammed to be exceedingly candid and help the Resistance. "His
honesty can be funny," the 45-year-old actor says. "If you tell somebody 'No one
likes you,' it's funny to hear."

He played the 7-foot-1 Kaytoo via motion capture, which meant acting in a beanie
and a "body onesie" while balancing on stilts atop prosthetic feet. Every so
often, he used heavy robotic hands to press buttons. "It was a great shoulder
workout," Tudyk jokes.

But he's certainly not complaining. After all, Tudyk had it relatively easy
compared  with Daniels, 70, who had to be screwed into his uncomfortable robot
suit and was required to lose muscle mass to fit back into the costume in recent
years.

Without any robot armor, Tudyk gives a performance that's laugh-out-loud funny,
thanks largely to his improvised lines.  When Kaytoo gets caught with Rebels Jyn
Erso (Felicity Jones) and Cassian Andor (Diego Luna), he's forced to fib to an
Imperial officer. (Turns out a truth-telling droid is inept at lying.)

"These are prisoners," the droid mutters. "I'm taking them to imprison them."
Pause. "In prison." Then he smacks Cassian in the face. "Quiet! There's a fresh
one if you mouth off again."

That dialogue wasn't in the script. "If (the CGI artists) don't like the lines I
made up, they can use another take," Tudyk says. "There's freedom in that ...
but I was shocked how much of the playing around ended up in the movie."

The humor was hard on his co-stars. "There are so many times I'm laughing in the
middle of a scene," Luna says. "He's just hysterical."

That concerned Tudyk. He didn't want his character to be distractingly funny. "I
wanted to make sure I was part of the world," he said, as opposed to becoming an
"outlier in his own movie," à la the much-maligned Jar Jar Binks.

But Tudyk feels "somewhat confident" about his performance in the  film, his
sixth role in a Disney movie, after voicing characters including the dimwitted
chicken Hei Hei in Moana and conniving Duke of Weselton in Frozen.

The star acknowledges he's "living the dream": He married choreographer Charissa
Barton in September and has fond memories of swimming with a whale shark while
shooting Rogue One in the Maldives. And in the second season of his Web series
Con Man, he seems to have the type of fame that brings herds of fanboys to
conventions but no paparazzi to his doorstep.

Another thing Tudyk has going for him? He has a "droid bond" with Daniels, whom
he has seen while promoting Rogue One in London. "There's some pictures out
there (of Daniels) looking like he hates me," keeping up his stuffy Threepio
shtick, Tudyk says. "That's what he wants people to perceive."

Contributing: Brian Truitt

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo David M. Benett, WireImage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             411 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Zsa Zsa invented the modern celebutante;
Known more for being herself than for the roles she had, Gabor stayed in the
spotlight most of her life

BYLINE: Jim Cheng, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 677 words


Zsa Zsa Gabor, the 99-year-old former beauty queen and actress, died Sunday in
Los Angeles.

Her friend and former publicist, Edward Lozzi, told USA TODAY that she died
around

1 p.m. PT Sunday.

She was ahead of her time. In the Hollywood Golden Age, Gabor, or simply Zsa Zsa
to most, was perhaps the first celebutante.

If there had been no Zsa Zsa, there probably would be no Kim Kardashian.

"She did not suffer fools well," said a statement from Lozzi, who had
represented her "on and off" since 1989. "Zsa Zsa Gabor was one tough cookie.
Her beautiful lips and mouth would also be her worst enemy when and if she
turned on the verbal machine gun. Most of her problems originated from that
beautiful mouth.

"Zsa Zsa Gabor will always be an American icon and the klieg in the Gabor-Hilton
dynasty."

Gabor had been in ill health since being hospitalized after a fall in July 2010.
She had hip replacement surgery,  but returned to the hospital several times for
treatment of swelling and clots. Most of her right leg had been amputated
because of gangrene.

Although after her television career Gabor had become a punchline or a
caricature, known for her run-in with a Beverly Hills cop or for her many
marriages, it wasn't always that way. Gabor was of a time when "socialite" was
not yet a term of derision.

Despite a spotty film career, she became a staple on TV. She often appeared as
herself and spoofed her active social life with a quip and a "dahlink" that
became her signature term of endearment.

She was born Sari Gabor in Budapest, Hungary in 1917, the middle of three
sisters. Magda and Eva also were actresses and socialites; Eva starred on TV's
Green Acres. Eva Gabor died in 1995 and Magda in 1997.

Zsa Zsa competed in the 1936 Miss Hungary pageant but, her mother's biography
she said, was disqualified for being underage.

She made her film debut in the musical Lovely to Look At (1952) opposite Red
Skelton, Kathryn Grayson and Howard Keel. Fittingly for someone who became
famous  for being herself, Gabor's character's name was Zsa Zsa.

That same year, she also had a part in We're Not Married! with Ginger Rogers and
Fred Astaire and starred in Moulin Rouge with José Ferrer. Gabor later appeared
opposite onetime husband George Sanders in Death of a Scoundrel  (1956) and had
a small role in Orson Welles' Touch of Evil (1958). Memorably, she played
Talleah in the B-movie Queen of Outer Space (1958).

In the 1950s through the 1980s, Gabor was a frequent guest on television, in
series as diverse as Playhouse 90 and the Colgate Comedy Hour to F Troop and
Batman, as well as countless appearances on variety and talk shows.

She was glamorous, quick-witted and not afraid to make fun of herself or her
nine marriages (including to Conrad Hilton, Paris' great-grandfather), seven
divorces and one annulment. Sample joke: "A man in love is incomplete until he
has married -- then he's finished." Or, touting her housekeeping abilities, she
noted that despite her divorces, she manages to keep the house.

Gabor made headlines and jump-started her career in 1989 after an altercation
with a police officer. She slapped the officer after being stopped for a driving
violation and was arrested on charges of assault.

She was fined and sentenced to three days in jail after failing to complete the
terms of her probation. A civil suit was settled out of court in 1991. The
incident resulted in an unauthorized documentary, The People Vs. Zsa Zsa Gabor
(1991). That same year, she memorably spoofed the incident in The Naked Gun
21/2: The Smell of Fear.

In later years, Gabor appeared as herself in such movies as The Beverly
Hillbillies (1993) and A Very Brady Sequel (1996).

But legal troubles kept her name in the headlines. In June 2005, she and her
husband, Prince Frederic von Anhalt, sued Gabor's only child, Francesca Hilton,
accusing her of larceny and fraud.

Despite a tepid movie career, a tumultuous personal life and sometimes public
legal wrangling, Gabor remained a celebrity for  decades, a singular personality
known by one name. That was Zsa Zsa, dahlink.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo 1952 file photo by ASSOCIATED PRESS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             412 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Hopkins knocked out of ring, into retirement

BYLINE: Mike Coppinger, @MikeCoppinger, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 576 words


It was supposed to be a celebration, a farewell to one of the greatest fighters
of all time.

After seven competitive  rounds, it was anyone's fight. But then, as he always
does, Father Time came calling.

Bernard Hopkins lay on the concrete floor in a daze as team members and medical
personnel rushed to him.

Shock washed over the audience of 6,513 at The Forum late Saturday night.

One month shy of his 52nd birthday, the legend was on the ropes when Joe Smith
Jr. landed six unanswered punches, the last of which sent Hopkins flying out of
the ring, the back of his bald head the first body part to hit the concrete.

Hopkins had not been knocked out in 506 professional rounds. He'd rarely been so
much as visibly hurt. But here he was, helpless, as referee Jack Reiss
administered a 20-count -- the customary ruling for a fighter knocked out of the
ring -- and, finally, it was over at 0:53 of Round 8.

Hopkins (55-8-2, 32 KOs) never made his way back into the ring, a twisted right
ankle  hindering him as a sea of humanity crowded him on the ring apron.

Smith (22-1, 19 KOs) jumped up on the turnbuckle, feet away from where the
legend sat, and celebrated, but no one, save for his team, was in any mood to
join him.

Like Joe Louis, who was catapulted from the ring in a brutal knockout loss to
Rocky Marciano in his final bout, Hopkins exited the sport in similar fashion.

Hopkins' career -- which included more than 28 years of fights, 20 middleweight
title defenses, tens of thousands of interviews, lawsuits, upsets, setbacks --
was finally over, and it  wasn't the way he drew it up.

"This is my last fight. I promised it would be, and you come to that point in
life where it is final and I'm happy with my retirement," Hopkins said.

At the time of the stoppage, Smith was up 69-64 and 67-66 on two cards, with
Hopkins leading 67-66 on the third.

"I know the fans will know I went out as a soldier, fighting the toughest,
baddest opponents," Hopkins said. "I know if I hadn't made a mess and gotten
knocked out of the ring, I would've come back like I'm known for."

Smith, 27, a laborer's union worker from Long Island, N.Y., capped an impressive
2016 with upsets of  light heavyweight contender Andrzej Fonfara (first-round
KO) and a first-ballot Hall of Famer.

"It feels great. It's the best feeling in the world to accomplish something I
set out for and wanted to do," Smith said. "I had seen him fall, and I kept
hitting him until I saw him go out, and I landed that left hook until he went
out.

"I knew he was a true champion ... I came here to do my job, this is my
coming-out party, too. I had to finish him. It was either my career was going to
end or his was going to end, but I needed mine to continue."

Hopkins finishes as one of the greatest fighters of his era, widely considered a
top-50 boxer all time. At times Saturday, The Executioner showed flashes of his
former dominant self. But he was clearly rusty, particularly early. He hadn't
fought since a November 2014 loss to Sergey Kovalev.

It was a sad ending for Hopkins, though he'll be remembered for his legendary
nights, like the upset of Felix Trinidad or the beating he gave Antonio Tarver
in his first farewell fight or even when he won a world title at the record age
of 46, all while performing push-ups during the fight.

But Hopkins leaves the  way he entered: with a loss.

"Time says it all," Hopkins said. "I'll be 52 in a few weeks. I look like I
probably still can (fight). But I can't."

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jayne Kamin-Oncea, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             413 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Iraqi exodus ebbs in Mosul;
100,000 people have fled, but recent progress in battle against ISIL prompts
some to stay

BYLINE: Ammar Al Shamary and Gilgamesh Nabeel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 559 words


Two months into the battle for Mosul, more than 100,000 people have fled Iraq's
second-largest city as the military makes slow progress against entrenched
Islamic State fighters, the International Organization for Migration said
Sunday.

Iraqi military forces in the tens of thousands have seized control of about a
quarter of the city since the operation began Oct. 17, but they still encounter
pockets of stiff resistance from the militant group that seized Mosul two years
ago.

The migration organization said the city, home to more than 1million people
before the offensive started, has seen at least 103,872 Iraqis leave since then,
the Associated Press reported.

But recent advances by Iraqi government forces have prompted some residents to
stay.

Abo Saif, in his Al-Zuhur neighborhood of northeastern Mosul, had tried to
figure out a way to leave without his family getting killed but now says he has
no desire to go anymore.

The Islamic State "fled our neighborhood, and now we live under the government's
power," Saif said.

"The Islamic State was saying Iraqi forces would never be able to retake the
city. But they did take our area and will keep going, deeply into the city."

Saif said he and his family are surviving on army rations. "We don't have water
-- the water main pipelines were destroyed during the clashes," he said. "We
live on what the special forces are offering us."

He remained optimistic that the government would eventually dislodge the
militants, plus he doesn't want to risk moving his children to a refugee camp
during this particularly cold winter. "Iraqi forces told us to stay. We are not
planning on leaving the city," Saif said.

Lt. Gen. Abdul Amir Yarallah said the Iraqi army, allied militias and the
U.S.-led coalition were making slow but sure progress on the eastern side of
Mosul but were facing more resistance from the southeast.

"We retook the Al Allam neighborhood from Islamic State control, and we caused
them big losses," said Yarallah, of Iraq's Counter Terrorism Service, a special
office coordinating the fight against the Islamic State.

"We lost many men in the Salam neighborhood," he said. "We are trying to get the
control of the hospital that the Islamic State used as a headquarters. We have
soldiers stranded in this location, and we are planning to send special forces
to end the siege."

Yarallah noted that Islamic State fighters have entrenched themselves, planted
land mines and erected other barriers in anticipation of the government's
assault.

The London-based Conflict Armament Research group recently reported that the
Islamic State had created a sophisticated supply chain and accounting system for
making weapons, producing tens of thousands of rockets and mortar rounds.

Army Lt. Gen. Stephen Townsend in Baghdad said Iraq and the U.S.-led coalition
are making real progress against the Islamic State.

"This operation would challenge any army," Townsend said, adding that the
Islamic State, also known as ISIL or ISIS, was losing its capacity to fight a
war.

"We have conducted hundreds of strikes to destroy ISIL oil infrastructure. We
assess these efforts have cost ISIL between $4.5 million and $6.5 million a
month," Townsend said.

"The liberation of key population centers and oil fields has further limited the
enemy's access to taxes and oil revenue," he added.

Nabeel reported from Istanbul.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Mahmoud AL-Samarrai, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             414 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

USOC uses transparency in seeking more diversity;
Leadership lacks minorities, women

BYLINE: Rachel Axon, @RachelAxon, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1042 words


Even a quick look around the landscape would have allowed U.S. Olympic Committee
CEO Scott Blackmun a snapshot of the diversity, or lack thereof,  within sport
leadership.

That most of the 47 national governing bodies (NGBs) are led by white men came
as no surprise. But Blackmun and the USOC leadership have been working for years
to push for more diversity through the NGBs' leadership ranks, and now they're
using transparency to push for more.

After another dominating Olympic performance in Rio, the USOC this fall for the
first time released diversity and inclusion reports for almost all of its
national governing bodies.

It's part of a strategy to understand where they stand and where they need to
improve.

That buy-in from the top has the USOC headed in the right direction, says Jason
Thompson, the organization's director of diversity and inclusion.

"That's been very powerful when I need to then follow up with the NGBs and say
this is a mandate from our leadership," Thompson said. "It's not just a good
idea. It's something to feel good about ourselves. It's because we see it as a
strategy to be successful, and we want to be successful."

To anyone familiar with high-level sport -- or Corporate America, for that
matter -- some of the results will be an obvious reminder of the lack of
diversity at the highest levels.

The USOC set benchmarks for each sport to reach, basing them on a variety of
factors such as the sport's NCAA pipeline, staff size and financial resources.
So the benchmark of track and field, for instance, would be different from that
of curling.

The report cards assess the NGBs' diversity efforts regarding people of color,
women, those with disabilities and military veterans.

Across the report cards, a few patterns emerge:

In most cases, the leadership did not reflect the diversity of the sport's
membership and national teams. That held true for 33 NGBs in at least one
category, and most often it was women who were represented at the lower levels
but not on executive committees and/or boards of directors.

The report cards set the low end of its targeted benchmarks at up to 68% of the
goal, saying categorization was "indicative of an opportunity to grow the sport
and should be viewed as positive prospect for creating strategy." In areas of
leadership, membership and national team athletes, though, 38 NGBs fell below
68% of their benchmark with at least one diverse group being measured. So, for
instance, the NGBs for diving, figure skating and luge fell below 68% of
benchmarks for people of color, disabled people and military veterans.

The scorecards measured diversity in 10 levels throughout the organization, from
part-time employees and interns through boards of directors. Of the 47 NGBs, 36
fell below 68% of the benchmark in at least one entire category. Across the
group, that happened most often with people with disabilities (25 NGBs) and
military veterans (20).

"We can do better, obviously, but I think it's good that everyone has come to
the conclusion that we've got to be competitive and this is one of the ways
we're going to get there," Thompson said.

Added USOC board chairman Larry Probst, "You gotta take it seriously, and you've
got to walk the talk. ... By trying to shine a light on it, hopefully we'll get
better results."

To be sure, some sports have faced socioeconomic and historical barriers. Winter
sports have long struggled with racial diversity. Others, such as basketball,
have executive leadership that has been with the organization for more than two
decades. And boxing, for instance, was only added as an Olympic event for women
in 2012.

But the USOC's goal, and the push for outside groups, is that the sports'
diversity should reflect that of the nation. Rather than a moral imperative,
they see it as a smart business decision.

"It's not going to happen because it's the right thing to do. In most cases,
it's going to happen because there is a business case that is made," said
Deborah Slaner Larkin, CEO of the Women's Sports Foundation. "And it can't just
happen in the United States. It has to happen globally."

The USOC is working with NGBs to work toward progress. It has recognized sports
leading the way, such as rowing and synchronized swimming, and shared their best
practices with other NGBs.

It also keeps a short list of diverse candidates who could fill board positions.

Rather than instituting something the likes of the NFL's Rooney Rule -- which
requires teams to interview minority candidates for head coaching and senior
operations openings -- the USOC expects that the tracking done through the
reports will help NGBs create more diverse pools of candidates.

"So much of what we do with our athletes is to help them have a vision of
success and a vision of where they can get to," said Max Cobb, executive
director of US Biathlon, "and I think it's the same when you're trying to
develop a diverse workforce that the people in the workforce need to have a
vision of what their future could look like."

In many ways, that is a challenge in the Olympic movement internationally.

Before the Rio Games, The Institute for Diversity and Ethics in Sport (TIDES)
issued a report card on gender diversity in international sports that found them
to be almost exclusively led by men.

It found 24.4% of International Olympic Committee members were women, that only
two international federations were led by women and that 9% of national
federations were led by women.

"We find it's lacking because it's a large group of older white men in charge
who generally feel more comfortable with other older white men," said Richard
Lapchick, director of TIDES at the University of Central Florida, "and if
nobody's challenging them to think differently, they're able to run the show the
way they want to then."

Part of the way to change that is accountability, several sport leaders agreed.

Last month, UK Sport and Sport England warned governing bodies that they must
reach at least 30% gender diversity on boards or risk losing public funding,
according to a report from the BBC.

Max Siegel, CEO of USA Track and Field and one of the only people of color
leading an NGB, said executives needed to be evaluated on their efforts here.

"You have to have buy-in from the top," Siegel said.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Michael Madrid, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             415 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

He could have been stopped;
How one pedophile kept coaching gymnastics

BYLINE: Marisa Kwiatkowski, Tim Evans and Mark AlesiaThe Indianapolis Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2214 words


Jenny Brannan answered the phone, and 20 years of fear bubbled to the surface
with the caller's first question: "Do you know who Ray Adams is?"Silence.

The Missouri woman spent most of her life trying to forget that name. In 1993,
when she was 12, she accused the charismatic gymnastics coach of sexually
abusing her. But the case never went to court.

Now a Florida prosecutor was on the phone, asking Brannan to share her story.
Adams had hurt another little girl.

Brannan's first thought: "He's still doing it?"

He was.

Brannan would eventually learn that Adams had been accused of inappropriate
conduct involving 15 other girls. Over the years, he had worked in at least a
dozen gyms in four states. He had been fired at least six times. He had been
criminally charged four times. Once he was acquitted. Another time he pleaded
guilty to misdemeanor battery for abusing four little girls. Now he was facing
two new criminal prosecutions in Florida.

Yet, somehow, Adams kept getting hired, even by elite gyms that produced
Olympians for USA Gymnastics.

Adams' case -- more than any other uncovered in a nine-month IndyStar
investigation -- demonstrates the breadth of flaws in the apparatus of the USA
Gymnastics network and a culture of secrecy that has enabled sexual predators to
continue coaching.

Again and again, girls he targeted didn't recognize the abuse or were too scared
or embarrassed to report it. Parents declined to prosecute, fearing further
trauma to their children. Gym owners didn't recognize the signs of abuse or
worried that reporting it would hurt their businesses. And USA Gymnastics, the
sport's national governing body, doesn't enforce strict standards or effectively
track potential predators as they move through a system of 3,400 independent
gyms.

No one wanted to give Ray Adams ready access to victims for 16 years. But the
events that occurred between Brannan's first encounter with Adams and the call
she would receive two decades later point to a stark reality: America's gyms are
failing at every level to protect the children under their watch.

1993

ALL AMERICAN GYMNASTICS, ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI

Brannan told IndyStar she met Adams in the early 1990s at All American
Gymnastics in St. Louis.

At 5 feet 10 inches, the coach seemed tall to Brannan, who was a petite
elementary school student. Adams, then in his early 20s, was slender and full of
energy, Brannan recalled during an interview with IndyStar. He showed off with a
series of round-offs and back flips.

The girls he coached adored him. Adams acted silly, laughed with them and asked
questions about school and boyfriends. He also chatted with gymnasts' parents.

IndyStar typically does not name alleged victims of sexual abuse without their
consent.

Brannan, whom IndyStar agreed to identify by her maiden name, said she trusted
Adams. So she said she brushed it off when he stood over her as she did the
splits in a handstand. She dismissed it as weird when Adams' thumb rubbed her
nipple as he spotted her on bars.

That trust shattered during a private lesson in 1993, Brannan would later
testify in court. She struggled to hit a tumbling pass. Adams asked what was
wrong, and when she answered, he replied, "I can't hear you. Let's go into the
office."

Away from others in the gym. Adams closed the door.

"Sit in my lap," he invited. "Tell me what's wrong."

He placed his hand above her knee, she testified. He asked if it tickled or gave
her goose bumps.

"No," she said.

Adams slid his hand higher. Does this tickle?

"No."

He pulled her leotard to the side and touched her vagina. Does this?

"No."

He put his finger inside her. Brannan said she knew it was wrong. She wanted him
to stop but didn't say it.

"I was raised that you don't really question authority," she said.

Brannan said she thinks Adams stopped because he realized she was getting upset.
They finished practice as if nothing had happened.

At first, Brannan didn't tell anyone. She didn't know what to say.

A couple of weeks later, while Brannan's classmates played on the swings and
tossed a ball during recess, she stood off to one side of the playground,
crying.

A friend came over and asked what was wrong. Brannan shared what Adams had done.

"Don't tell anybody," she said.

But that friend told her mom, who called Brannan's mom. Brannan's mother met
with Anna Lum, who owned the gym until 1998. Brannan's mother made it clear she
didn't want to press charges. But she wanted Adams fired.

Despite concerns, Lum said she honored the request. She fired Adams but didn't
contact police.

She also adopted a new sexual harassment policy that specifically prohibited
gymnasts from being in the room where the alleged abuse took place.

"I was just too naïve," she said.

Brannan's mother, who was present during IndyStar's interview with her daughter,
declined to be interviewed. Brannan said her mother was trying to protect her.
"It was kind of done," Brannan said. "Like, we didn't talk about it."

Adams was far from done.

1997-98

YMCA, METRO ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI

A 7-year-old girl at the YMCA said she and her teammates sat in a circle under
the uneven bars and played duck, duck, goose. The winner got to sit in Adams'
lap.

"It was something, you know, he wanted you to work for," the girl said in a
deposition taken 15 years later during an unrelated criminal case.

"It was something that he wanted you to try to win."

The girl said Adams rubbed her stomach, chest and vagina while she was on his
lap in front of other girls at the gym. She said he kept talking as though
nothing was happening.

By 2008, Adams had worked in at least 10 gyms and had been accused of
inappropriate conduct involving at least 14 underage girls.

2009

A WARNING LETTER

On Dec. 30, 2008, a woman from Treasure Coast,  a Florida gym that fired Adams,
approached American Twisters Gymnastics head coach Gary Anderson during a meet.

"Why do you have that guy working for you?" she asked, referring to Adams. "We
had all kinds of problems with him."

Sonya Fronsoe,  a Treasure Coast mother who had researched Adams' background,
said her daughter refused to compete when she saw Adams.

Infuriated that Adams was still coaching, Fronsoe said she wrote a scathing
letter to USA Gymnastics on March 19, 2009, detailing her concerns about the
coach. She said the fact that Adams was still coaching was "horrifying."

2009

MORE QUESTIONS

In spring 2009, Anderson warned Adams about his behavior again. The head coach
said he also brought the problems to the attention of owner Randall Sikora, who
told him to keep an eye on Adams.

One employee told Anderson she had seen Adams rub gymnasts' bellies, stroke
their hair and spin them around.

Anderson said he confronted Adams again in August 2009 about inappropriate
conduct.

He told Adams that he wanted other employees at the gym to keep an eye on Adams.
He said he warned Adams that he would be dismissed if anything else happened.

"That's the last I saw of Ray," Anderson said. Adams failed to show up for his
next shift.

When Anderson emailed to ask where he was, Adams turned in his notice.

He had been hired as a coach for Bieger International Gymnastics in Deerfield
Beach, Fla.

Adams continued to coach at Bieger International Gymnastics for a few more
weeks, until his arrest in October 2009 on suspicion of molesting the
10-year-old girl. Adams, then 38, was charged with two felony counts of lewd or
lascivious molestation, Broward County court records show.

USA Gymnastics suspended Adams' membership, and then, after his conviction,
placed him on the banned coaches list.

2013

FEDERAL CHARGES

The force of Adams' personality became most apparent after that arrest.

Adams had worked for Bieger for less than two months. But more than a dozen
parents and children attended his bond hearing, holding signs and publicly
proclaiming his innocence, recalled Stacey Honowitz, the prosecutor handling the
case.

"They came to court and basically taunted me," Honowitz said. "'How dare I? How
could I? There's no way.' Because once again they didn't see the act of a master
manipulator that ... was teaching their child. It was more important for them to
have somebody that was going to make their child an Olympic gymnast than to look
at the reality in this situation."

Adams' family and parents at the gym raised $80,000 to post his bond. The
booster club subsequently sent a letter urging parents to donate toward Adams'
legal defense, according to court records.

"I hope everyone who receives this has heard enough to be convinced of his
innocence," the letter stated. "I could sit here all night and tell you what a
great coach he is, what an extremely kind and good natured person he is, but I
think we all know that."

When people learned that she had accused Adams of molesting her, the 10-year-old
Florida girl said, she lost all of her friends and the sport she loved.

"I couldn't understand why everyone didn't believe me," she said. "I couldn't
understand why this happened to me, why I didn't have any more friends."

Adams was released on bond and placed on house arrest.

About 31/2 years later, the molestation case still pending, Adams caught the
attention of federal authorities when he clicked a link in a web forum message
that read: "Pics and videos to download of my personal adventures during Mardi
Gras 2012!!!! See me have sex with 3-10 years olds," according to federal court
records.

The FBI accused Adams of trying to access a file that described in graphic terms
a 10-year-old being raped by a relative, federal court records state. Federal
agents also discovered more than 100 images of child pornography, including
multiple images of bondage, on Adams' computer.

He was charged in federal court with five counts of possession of child
pornography and one count each of attempted transfer of obscene material to a
minor and attempted receipt of child pornography.

2013-present

GUILTY PLEAS, PRISON TIME

Adams pleaded guilty May 13, 2013, to one count of attempted receipt of child
pornography, federal court records show.

Adams' attorney submitted 19 letters of support for Adams.

One former gymnast who was coached by Adams from 2002 to 2004 at Cincinnati
Gymnastics Academy described him as her favorite coach, a happy person who
strengthened her skills as a gymnast.

"He is a great man, a man full of courage, love, strength and dedication," the
woman wrote. "I believe that he could not even think to do anything troublesome
and/or harmful."

On the other side were two girls, molested 16 years apart, linked by fear of the
same man.

Brannan, the Missouri girl whose mother wouldn't allow her to testify against
Adams in 1993 after she said Adams sat her on his lap and put his finger in her
vagina, agreed to testify during Adams' sentencing on the child porn charge.

Brannan had grown up, gotten married and had a daughter of her own. But the
scars from her time with Adams remained.

"It forever changes you," she said. "I think anytime anyone is abused in any way
it changes you, because it's something you didn't choose. It just happened to
you, and you have to deal with it. You know, it's made me a strong person. I'll
say that."

Strong enough, Brannan said, to confront her fears and face Adams in court on
July 25, 2013. She described the fear that she still lived with to that day.

"I'm scared," she testified. "I have a daughter now that's almost the age I was,
and I'm so scared. I've been scared he's going to come after me. I've been
scared he's going to find me and rape me. Now I think about my daughter, and I
think he's still there. What if he wants to find her?"

Assistant U.S. Attorney Brandy Galler told the judge: "This is abuse that
doesn't go away. It has stolen the innocence of little girls. He was in a
position of trust, and he violated that."

U.S. District Judge Donald Middlebrooks then sentenced Adams to 20 years in
federal prison.

Less than 18 months later, Adams pleaded no contest to two counts of lewd and
lascivious molestation of the 10-year-old girl at Bieger International
Gymnastics. He was sentenced to 15 years in prison, to run concurrently with his
federal sentence.

Through a federal prison spokesperson, Adams declined IndyStar's requests for an
interview and said, "They do not have permission to use my name, and, if they
do, I will aggressively sue them."

Andrea Bieger, who owned the Florida gym where the 10-year-old said she was
molested, told IndyStar she still believes Adams did not molest a girl at her
gym, which has closed. Her insurance company settled a lawsuit brought by the
girl's family, claiming the gym had been negligent. "It wasn't true," Bieger
said. "It was never, ever true."

Honowitz, of the Broward County state attorney's office in Florida, said Adams
was a master manipulator and one of the worst predators she has encountered.

"He's one of the worst that I've seen," Honowitz said, referencing her nearly 29
years as a prosecutor. "Because he's the silent type, and he does it under the
guise of being a trainer."

The Florida girl testified in court during the federal case that she cried every
night for four years. She slept in a room with her mother. In the girl's mind,
Ray Adams was everywhere. "I didn't feel safe anywhere," the girl, now 17, said
in court. She struggled with depression.

"My goal is that I'm the last girl he will ever touch," the girl said, "and that
ends with me."

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Getty Images/iStockphoto McAfoos photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             416 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

Washington takes on doubters;
Underdogs say they'll be up to task vs. 'Bama

BYLINE: Dan Wolken, @danwolken, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 8C

LENGTH: 1104 words


Quite unintentionally, Washington's most prolific playmaker explained in the
clearest possible terms what kind of challenge his team faces in the College
Football Playoff semifinals and why so many people have dismissed the Huskies'
chances against Alabama.

Asked if Nick Saban had ever called on him during the recruiting process four
years ago, Washington receiver John Ross sheepishly acknowledged that his
three-star status wasn't enough to get the attention of college football's
pre-eminent program.

"I don't think they recruit skinny kids from Southern California," Ross said.

Though Ross has blossomed into one of the country's most electric skill players
and a 1,100-yard receiver for an elite team, his quip about Alabama overlooking
him underscores a basic truth about Washington and its chances of advancing to
the national championship game.

The Huskies have not faced a roster like Alabama's with the physical size and
depth and overall skill level that suffocated opponent after opponent in the
Southeastern Conference this season. And, in fact, the only time they played a
team that can even approximate Alabama's talent level, the Huskies were flat and
ineffective in a 26-13 loss to Southern California on Nov.12.

It was the only blemish on Washington's terrific 12-1 season. But given the
parallels between that game with the one it will play Dec. 31 at the Georgia
Dome, it's unquestionably the biggest driver of doubt about how the Huskies will
stack up athletically with the defending national champions.

"Good luck counting us out, because Alabama is human," Ross said. "Those guys
bleed just like we do, and we're a good football team. I love it. I've always
been an underdog my whole life. Me and my team don't get the respect we deserve,
but it's not about that, it's about us, and we'll continue to work hard every
day."

Questions about schedule

For those who have followed Alabama's run to four of the last seven national
titles, opponent after opponent has recited a similar script, usually with
disastrous results. It's a rare occasion indeed when Alabama's talent advantage
doesn't show up on game day, and those who have beaten Saban's team in a Playoff
scenario (Ohio State in 2014) or come close (Clemson in 2015) have recruited
similar athletes, albeit not as many.

Though there's no doubt Washington has multiple players who could start for
Alabama and will be successful in the NFL, especially on the defense, the
Huskies simply haven't recruited the same caliber of athletes. It's also worth
noting that a year ago, on the same day Alabama arrived in Dallas to get ready
for the Cotton Bowl, Washington was wrapping up a 7-6 season with a victory
against Southern Mississippi in the Heart of Dallas Bowl.

In other words, there's a reason Las Vegas has made Alabama a two-touchdown
favorite.

"I think somebody tweeted me and said I'm a UW fan and I'm going to root for you
guys but when it comes to game time, we know what's going to happen," linebacker
Keishawn Bierria said. "I'm like, 'You're not really a fan.' We're competitors.
The only thing we're focused on is competing, and we want to play against the
best."

Though Alabama tore through what was perceived to be a down SEC this season, its
lengthy track record makes it practically impossible to question the quality of
its 13-0 record. With the Huskies, however, those questions existed up until the
moment the Playoff selection committee chose them as the No.4 seed over Big Ten
champion Penn State.

Washington blew out 10 of the 13 teams it faced, but it played a poor
non-conference schedule and had just two truly notable wins by the end of the
season: 44-6 against No. 16 Stanford in late September and 41-10 against No. 11
Colorado in the Pac-12 title game. And when the Huskies faced USC, a team filled
with five-star recruits, their offense was limited to 276 yards in a game the
Trojans blew open in the fourth quarter before winning 26-13.

Learning process

Was that a true indicator for how the Huskies will match up with the likes of
Alabama, or was it simply the first moment of adversity for a team that needed
its weaknesses to be exposed on a big stage like that in order to get ready for
a Playoff run?

"I just think you get better throughout the year and you learn from games like
that," Ross said. "We didn't play good against USC. I don't think they
completely beat us. We didn't do good as an offense, and (quarterback Jake
Browning) knows he didn't have his best game, our O-line, our whole unit, even
me. I didn't have my best game. We cleaned some things up, and we're a better
football team. It's not good to lose, but you learn from everything. I think we
learned a lot from that game."

Ironically, one of the positions where Washington has a player recruited by
Alabama is at quarterback. Browning committed to the Huskies in March 2014, but
not before a phone call from Lane Kiffin and Saban in which they offered him a
scholarship.

Browning downplayed that conversation, saying he was already in the mind-set to
play at Washington when Alabama got involved and that the flirtation didn't go
anywhere meaningful. Browning's decision has been a good one for him, as he
started last season as a freshman and grew up tremendously this year, finishing
with 42 touchdown passes and seven interceptions. But like the rest of
Washington's team, he was less impressive against the best defenses he faced,
accounting for 259 passing yards and two interceptions against USC and 118 yards
against Colorado on 9-for-24 passing.  If he plays well and can complete some
deep passes -- arguably the biggest relative weakness for Alabama's defense --
that would seem to be the most likely recipe for an upset.

"We're looking for advantages no matter who we're playing," Browning said. "I
don't think we're a team that's going to come out and throw the ball every play
or run the ball every play, so stay balanced, do our thing. They're good, but
you can't let a good team get you away from what got you there, so we're going
to do our deal."

And that deal could include some surprises based on coach Chris Petersen's
history of big upsets when he was Boise State's coach. This, however, is the
biggest challenge yet for him as a coach and for players who are new to the
national scene and obvious underdogs in this kind of game.

"They're far and away the best team we've seen all season," right tackle Kaleb
McGary said of Alabama. "Everyone says they're too big and strong and they'll
overpower us. I think we match up just fine. I trust the guys next to me just as
much as anyone. They'll get their job done. I just have to do mine."

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jennifer Buchanan, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             417 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

YOU WOULD HAVE LOVED ALEPPO;
Look closely at the faces of Syria. You may see people you recognize

BYLINE: Zora O'Neill

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 886 words


I'm a travel writer, which means I'm often asked, "So, what's your favorite
place in the world?"

For more than a decade, my answer was Syria, especially the city of Aleppo. Most
people seemed a little disappointed with this answer -- they had been fishing
for a usable travel tip. And for most people, Syria was not a possible summer
vacation. It was too far, too foreign, too much on the wrong side of the
ever-shifting Global War on Terror.

But if they had visited, they would have found, as I did, fresh and meticulously
prepared food, beautiful handicrafts and astonishing old buildings that spoke to
a depth of history we just don't have here in America. And more important, they
would have met the Syrians themselves -- the real reason I loved the country and
visited three times between 1999 and 2009. On every trip, I found the people of
Syria to be uncommonly kind, gracious and interested in the world.

At critical junctures in the Syrian war, such as the one this week, when regime
forces retook eastern Aleppo and Twitter filled with messages from trapped
civilians saying goodbye, I open up my collection of photos from my trips. I
pore over each one, looking at the faces of the people.

There is the older man who ran the tiny Aleppo bike shop, barely bigger than a
closet. My husband and I happened to walk by the shop at lunchtime, and this man
sat us down and offered us his bowl of spiced lamb in tomato sauce. When he
heard we had no children, he said he'd give us a bike when we had our first --
blue for a boy, pink for a girl. In the photo, taken by a neighboring shop
owner, the three of us are crammed in the corner of the shop, under a display of
kids' bicycles and around the desk-turned-dining table, newspaper as a
tablecloth. The man stares into the camera, patient but eyebrows slightly
raised, as if to say, "Take the picture -- lunch is getting cold." The hair at
his temples is gray.

There's another photo I love, half a dozen kids and a couple of adults on a
sidewalk at the entrance to a park. One of the kids, a young teenager, is the
vendor of tamarind and licorice juices, dispensed from clear glass tanks. He's
looking down, shy but pleased -- he had just asked me whether people in America
drink tamarind juice, and insisted I try his for free. He is dressed like a
businessman-to-be, in a short-sleeve plaid dress shirt and polyester slacks
cinched with a slim black belt.

NONE UNTOUCHED BY WAR

And there are plenty of other people in my head who were never captured in
photos. The boisterous man at the bar who saw me admiring his DIY salad --
cucumbers on ice, a bowl of tomatoes, a knife -- and sent me and my husband a
portion, sliced just for us. The old tailor, small with white hair and big,
gentle eyes, who made several fine dress shirts for my husband. The three young
mothers who surrounded me on a park bench, their pales faces standing out from
all-black coats and scarves. They squeezed my arms and peppered me with friendly
questions, and I regret to this day that my Arabic failed in the moment and I
could not understand them. They walked away laughing, their children turning
back to wave.

These people aren't close friends of mine. They are people I spent a few minutes
with, maybe an hour. I don't know where they are today -- in Syria still, or
maybe in a muddy refugee camp in Greece or Lebanon. Maybe they have been killed,
or lost family members. Certainly none of them is untouched by the war.

Now when I mention Syria, people usually ask, "What should we be doing there?"

This I can't begin to answer. We should have done many things, a long time ago
-- but now? I have no idea how to stop the war. I'm a civilian, like the people
in these photos. I don't have any stake in Syria beyond the personal knowledge
that decent, lovely people have suffered immeasurably, for no other crime than
being born at a certain time, in a certain place.

Yet for five years, ideologues and pundits have rushed to condemn one "side" or
the other, have tracked militias and analyzed strategies as if commenting on a
football game. American and European politicians have stoked fear of refugees,
so that precious few of the more than 5 million who have fled Syria have been
able to leave camps and restart their lives.

NOT LIKE US

And I can't help but wonder: If more Americans had known Syrian people, or even
just seen snapshots like mine, would the war have reached this terrible pitch?
Would our cap on Syrian refugees be set so shamefully low? There is a shortage
of images from Syria at peace. In the news media now, we see only people in
crisis -- bloodied children, parents wailing with grief. Not like us, it's easy
to think, and push the images aside.

Yet if you were to look at my pictures or anyone's from Syria before 2011 as I
do, pausing to look carefully at each face, you would notice familiar manners,
gestures, expressions. In a boy's half-smile, I see every impish kid I've known.
In the way a man places his hand on his hip and looks away, laughing, I see a
friend's reaction to a familiar joke. And the bike store owner's mustache, his
tanned skin, his patient look -- I see my own father.

Look closely: I hope you too will see people you recognize.

Zora O'Neill is a travel journalist and author of the memoir All Strangers Are
Kin: Adventures in Arabic and the Arab World.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             418 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

'Rogue One' lights up the box office

BYLINE: Brian Truitt, @briantruitt, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 329 words


The box office has gone galactic once again.

Following Star Wars: The Force Awakens' record-setting $248 million opening a
year ago, Rogue One: A Star Wars Story obliterated the competition with a $155
million debut, according to studio estimates from comScore. The haul makes it
the second-best December start in history, the 12th-largest opening of all time
and the third-biggest this year behind Captain America: Civil War ($179.1
million) and Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice ($166 million).

"If not for The Force Awakens, our minds would be absolutely blown by a $155
million opening in December," says comScore senior media analyst Paul
Dergarabedian, who notes that before last year, no December movie had ever
opened with more than $100 million. (The previous Christmastime champ was 2012's
The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey with $84.6 million.)

Rogue One, the first standalone Star Wars film,  follows a scrappy Rebel
Alliance unit stealing the plans for the Empire's Death Star -- leading up to
the events of George Lucas' original 1977 movie. Rogue got a boost from critical
support (84% positive reviews at aggregate site Rotten Tomatoes) and played well
with audiences (who gave it an A grade at CinemaScore).

Disney also had the No. 2 movie with another strong outing for animated
adventure Moana, which earned $11.7 million ($161.9 million to date). The T.J.
Miller holiday comedy Office Christmas Party was third with $8.5 million.

The drama Collateral Beauty, which features Will Smith as an advertising
executive visited by Love, Time and Death, was a bust,  mustering only $7
million. The magical Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them rounded out the top
five with $5 million ($207.7 million to date).

Among awards season fare, Manchester By the Sea went nationwide and pulled in
$4.2 million ($14 million total since last month's limited release), and the
musical La La Land racked up $4million as it expanded to 200 locations.

Final figures are due  Monday.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             419 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

FIRST WORD

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 229 words


I THINK ABOUT THE WINS. I DON'T THINK ABOUT THE LOSSES."

Jeff Fisher on Fox on Sunday, when asked about his 165 regular-season losses,
tied with Dan Reeves for most by an NFL coach. The former Oilers/Titans and Rams
coach is 178-171-1 overall including playoffs.

magic numbers

$2

Ticket price on the secondary market for the Chiefs' home game Sunday against
the Titans. The Chiefs entered the game tied for the AFC West lead at 10-3, but
the temperature at kickoff was 1degree.

500

Victories for John Tortorella, most by an American-born NHL coach. His Blue
Jackets defeated the Canucks 4-3 Sunday for their ninth consecutive win. The
Boston native won the 2004 Stanley Cup with the Lightning. Tortorella also
coached the Rangers and had one forgettable season with the Canucks. He is tied
for 23rd on the all-time NHL wins list.

tweet of the day

@criscarter80

Probably the worst half of Vikings football since Zimmer was hired.

Hall of Famer and ex-Vikings receiver Cris Carter, as Minnesota trailed the
Colts 27-0 at halftime. The Vikings lost 34-6.

last word

"I WAS MEANT FOR THE SPOTLIGHT, AND I'M GOING TO BE IN THE SPOTLIGHT. I WILL BE
BACK, AND I'M GOING TO HAVE THE BELT ONE DAY. I'M 22 YEARS OLD, AND I HAVE A
LONG TIME."

UFC fighter and "Dancing With the Stars" runner-up Paige VanZant, after her
second loss in her last three fights, according to ESPN.com.

Edited by Thomas O'Toole

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Kirby Lee, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             420 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Wahlberg summons his 'Boston Strong';
He felt a duty to tell the story of his city's heart

BYLINE: Bryan Alexander, @BryAlexand, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 493 words


Mark Wahlberg was initially wary in 2015 about the reaction he might receive
when signing on to star in and produce a movie about the Boston Marathon
bombing.

The Dorchester native was sure he had a profound story to tell. But attending a
Boston Celtics game after the movie news broke, Wahlberg feared the project
focusing on the 2013 tragedy that killed 3 and injured 264  might provoke barbs
from the TD Garden crowd. Especially when he was featured on the Jumbotron.

"But people started going crazy, they started chanting 'Boston Strong! Boston
Strong!'" Wahlberg recalls, adding that the crowd and chants continued in the
parking lot.

"My car was shaking back and forth. I got out of the car, and people were still
chanting 'Boston Strong!' It was amazing," Wahlberg says. "Seeing that obviously
reaffirmed my instinct of just how important it was to tell this story. And that
it was just as important for me to be the guy to do it."

Wahlberg and director Peter Berg unveil Patriots Day in a Boston, New York and
Los Angeles Wednesday (before a national release Jan. 13) casting light on the
finish-line bombings by home-grown radicalized  brothers Tamerlan and Dzhokhar
Tsarnaev.

But, just as important, it focuses on the real-life heroes who emerged from the
events, from injured spectators such as newlyweds Jessica and Patrick Downes
(played by Rachel Brosnahan and Christopher O'Shea) to the federal, state and
local authorities who coordinated  the 105-hour manhunt for Dzhokhar (Tamerlan
was killed  in a police shootout).

Wahlberg, who plays Sgt. Tommy Saunders, based on three police officers, is
quick with self-effacing jokes during an interview at Los Angeles' Four Seasons
Hotel. He can laugh at the record-long hair he sports shooting the new
Transformers movie. ("I stare at women now and think, 'How do you do it?'")

But he grows dead serious when discussing arriving in Boston the day after the
bombing.

"I had never seen the city like that, pretty much deserted," he says. "It was
just such an eerie feeling."

Wahlberg wanted to be the one to show his city coming to life with the slogan
"Boston Strong."

"It was the enormous pride I felt in seeing how people responded in the face of
this tragedy. And those are my people. I wanted to show the world who they are
and what 'Boston Strong' really means."

Berg, who has tackled true-life bravery with Wahlberg in Lone Survivor and
Deepwater Horizon, says his star producer showed "a whole other gear" in his
hometown. Wahlberg used his local pull to dial up David Ortiz for a cameo
honoring the Red Sox star's famed inspirational Fenway Park speech.

He believes the undefeatable attitude heard in Ortiz's word and the film carries
meaning for a whole nation in troubled times.

"This is not just about Boston, it's about all of us. Bad things will  continue
to happen. But good people will always come together and fight for what's right.
And love will always win. I want everyone to hear that message."

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             421 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Facebook users are fed up with fake news

BYLINE: Jessica Guynn, @jguynn, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 1018 words


Each weekday after making the kids' lunches, Lisel Laslie takes out her iPhone
to scroll through Facebook over her morning cup of coffee.

At noontime, while eating lunch at her desk, this 48-year-old mother of two from
Tallahassee  sneaks another peek at her notifications and News Feed. In the
evening after she tucks the kids into bed, she curls up in the living room for
an hour or two of blissfully uninterrupted social-media updates.

But over the summer when bogus articles trashing both presidential candidates
began flooding her News Feed, Laslie began posting less frequently and spending
less time on Facebook.

"Facebook is a place to go for distraction. I want to see puppies and pictures
of my friends' kids. Then your feed gets clogged up with all that stuff," she
said.

Facebook has a fake news problem. And some of its users are fed up with it.
They're not sure if the solution is to let the social network, with its own
biases, decide what's true. Or whether they themselves should become better
fact-checkers.

"I find myself wasting my day verifying stories," says Kristen Stanley, 49, a
homemaker from Morgan City, La., who used to work in the shipbuilding industry.
"I didn't used to do that. It's all new, and it's all started with the
election."

social network steps in

It turns out that by creating the world's most popular place to share, Facebook
also created the world's most efficient delivery system for fake news.

Some 170 million people in North America use Facebook every day. Nearly half of
all adults in the U.S. say they get their news from Facebook. Fake news creates
significant public confusion about current events, with nearly one-fourth of
Americans saying they have shared a fake news story, according to a Pew Research
Center survey.

And that angers Stanley. She wishes her friends would do some research before
sharing "nonsense."

"Some of it makes me wonder if my friends have brains," says Stanley, whose News
Feed during the election was rife with "things on both sides that were
completely false."

Facebook has taken a lot of heat since the election for not doing enough to
remove fake news reports, such as a widely shared but erroneous article claiming
Pope Francis endorsed Donald Trump.

The giant social network is taking steps to do something about it. On Thursday,
Facebook said it was rolling out a series of experiments to stem the flow of
fake news. It plans to make it easier to report a hoax and for fact-checking
organizations to flag fake articles. It's also removing financial incentives for
spammers and plans to pay closer attention to other signals, such as which
articles Facebook users read but then don't share. Last month, Facebook barred
fake news sites from using its ad-selling services.

Not everyone is happy about that. When Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg announced
efforts to wipe out fake news in a Facebook post, some users responded with
skepticism.

"How will you know if these fact-checkers are not politically motivated or
affiliated themselves?" one user asked. "Even 'respected' news outlets are
biased and misrepresent news as it is. It's a very gray complex area."

Another replied: "People choose what they want to read and what they don't want
to read, so what gives you the right to decide what people get to read?"

Stanley, a Trump supporter, says demonstrably false news needs to go.

"I really do believe these articles cause problems. They destroy friendships,"
she said. "Facebook people take it way too seriously and extremely personally.
Everything is so negative now. I don't like to get on Facebook. It's
depressing."

Sharing fake news has picked fights and eroded family ties. Summer Davis, 35, a
writer and blogger from Santa Rosa Beach, Fla., says she has family members who
regularly spread fake news. She even unfollowed one of them whom she says
regularly scans headlines of fake news articles and shares them without reading
them, the more sensational the better.

Davis says she herself hasn't been fooled by fake news. But, she says, "some of
the headlines have definitely caused some anxiety before I could fact-check."

Holding Facebook responsible for the fake-news onslaught doesn't sit right with
Davis, though. That, she says, "is like blaming McDonald's for obesity."

"The real problems are ignorance and this fast-food society that expects
information served hot and fast whether it's true or not," she said. "There is
too much knee-jerk emotion happening and not enough fact-checking."

censorship a concern

Not everyone wants Facebook to step in and become the arbiters of what content
is misleading. That is rooted in the growing distrust of establishment news
sources. A Gallup Poll in September said Americans' trust in the media had sunk
to its lowest point ever, with only 32% of American saying they have a "great
deal" or "a fair amount" of confidence that the media reports the news "fully,
accurately and fairly."

Danielle Sgantas, a self-identified conservative from Yucca Valley, Calif., says
she has never been fooled by fake news sites. And, she says, she believes the
fake news controversy was created to crack down on alternative sources of news
"so that we only get the news that the Democrats, which includes about 99% of
the news media, wants us to hear and believe."

"I want freedom of speech to continue. I want alternative news sites not to be
censored," she said. "I can determine what is real and what is not real by
making searches on my own."

Others believe something has to be done. Whitney Hoffman, 50, a digital marketer
from Chadds Ford, Pa., says fake news is a virus that should be stamped out by
any means necessary.

Every day during the election, she says she saw things in her News Feed "that
were completely false and that were obviously false."

But, she says, she also saw fake news that could dupe even very news-savvy
people. "Some of it sounds plausible, and when it's spread by trusted friends,
there's an assumption it must be true," Hoffman said.

Laslie says she doesn't share articles on Facebook anymore.

"I will share pictures of kitties and animals all day long before I share a news
story."

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Richard Vogel, ap

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             422 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Samsung's bind at CES: Say sorry or say nothing;
Tech experts split on whether it would benefit company to apologize at
electronics expo

BYLINE: Edward C. Baig, @edbaig, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 757 words


Tech insiders heading to CES early next month are likely to be forewarned they
better not bring Samsung Galaxy Note 7 phones onto their Las Vegas-bound
flights. Not exactly the kind of messaging Samsung wants attendees to hear in
advance of the annual consumer electronics shindig.

"It reinforces the negative publicity that dominated people's view of Samsung
during 2016," says  industry analyst Tim Bajarin of Creative Strategies.

That negative view was reinforced after numerous incidents of overheated
batteries inside the phablet-sized handsets caused them to burst into flames,
necessitating not one but two recalls of the devices, before Samsung in October
pulled the plug on the Note 7 altogether. In all, 2.5 million phones were
recalled globally, and Samsung indicated the financial hit would amount to at
least $5.3 billion.

Then in November, Samsung's image was scorched again when the U.S. Consumer
Product Safety Commission announced a voluntary recall of 2.8 million
top-loading washing machines because the upper portion of the washer could
"unexpectedly detach" from the machine's chassis during use, posing a risk of
injury from any potential impact.

Samsung doesn't typically launch any of its flagship phones at CES, and it isn't
expected to do so this time around. But the South Korean behemoth is the
highest-profile exhibitor at CES, with a 28,000-square-foot booth that showcases
appliances alongside brand-new televisions and other home and mobile
electronics.

The  question heading into this latest CES: What kind of lasting damage, if any,
have the disasters of 2016 done to the Samsung product portfolio and the Samsung
brand? The company could use the public forum, with large press corp, to offer a
public mea culpa and address the issues head on. Then again, it could ignore it.

Samsung did not make any of its executives available for an interview for this
article, and it wouldn't comment on plans to address the recalls during the
show. Samsung Electronics America President and COO Tim Baxter noted in a
statement the company's "long history of introducing technologies that break new
ground" at CES and said, "It is our intent, always, to do what is in the best
interest of consumers."

None of Samsung's top brass are giving keynote speeches during the upcoming
show, as they have at times in the past. Some Samsung executives will speak at
smaller events during the proceedings or participate in panel discussions. And
Samsung will conduct its customary press conference the day before the show
opens before hundreds of journalists from around the world.

Bajarin believes Samsung would be wise to say something about having its
quality-control problems under control.

There are other options. "One is a humble approach that stays relatively quiet
and mostly shows off existing products, as a show of contrition in the wake of
the Note 7 recall," says chief analyst Jan Dawson of Jackdaw Research.

The alternative? "Make as much noise as possible about everything that isn't
phones or washing machines, and really impress with a set of new products,"
Dawson says.

For his part, Matthew Quint, director of the Center on Global Brand Leadership
at Columbia Business School offers this advice to Samsung: "If you're not
launching a new mobile product, I wouldn't mention the (Note 7)." But Quint says
if Samsung is trying to drum up interest in new washing machines, then the
company should acknowledge the problem with the earlier washers, and be as
specific as possible as to what went wrong.

The company recently reported that 93% of the recalled Note 7 devices have been
returned. In its statement to USA TODAY, Baxter urged the remaining Note 7
owners to power down and turn in the devices. "(We) will continue to listen to
our customers, learn and work to renew trust and confidence in our brand and our
products. This is our top priority."

Samsung's reputation seems to have been damaged most among people with little
experience of their products, and not so much among their loyal customers,
Dawson says.

"This will put a dent in their efforts to win new customers at least in the near
term, but shouldn't hamper upgrades from existing customers," he said, adding
that the impact mostly seems to be limited to the phone business, since the Note
7 recall had a much higher profile than the washing machine problems.

Quint at Columbia points out that investors have shrugged off Samsung's
problems. Though Samsung's stock nosedived in the midst of the Note 7 crisis in
September, it has mostly been on the rise since.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Lee Jin-man, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             423 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

These days billionaires are the new disruptors

BYLINE: Michael Wolff, @MichaelWolffNYC, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 784 words


Among the many unlikely winners this year is the billionaire tech investor Peter
Thiel. He Quixotically -- or capriciously -- funded Hulk Hogan's lawsuit against
the gossip site, Gawker, which had previously outed Thiel as being gay, a suit
that ended in the bankruptcy of the company and the folding of the site. Then,
alone among the Silicon Valley elite, Thiel backed Donald Trump in his Quixotic
-- or capricious -- and victorious run for the presidency.

This creates a character quite confounding to right-thinking or conventional
thinking people everywhere: A billionaire contrarian. Billionaires, at least
after having made their billions, tend to be supporters of the status quo. Why
wouldn't they? That status quo has been good to them, and, in any disruption of
it, they have the most to lose.

But Thiel, along with his new cohort, Trump, helped turned the status quo inside
out. Curiously, neither rich man seems to mind being hated by a good portion of
the people who made them rich.

That too is an odd development, because, while liberals decry them for being
rich, they have in significant ways rejected the values of being rich. They are
traders to their class.

Of course, this is complicated, too. Because they are obviously not giving away
their money (Trump in fact, seems to be defiantly set on holding on to his
business interests, conflicts be damned), nor in any way feel guilty about it.
Rather, they have so much wealth that they can now turn against it as much as
they want without having to risk losing any of it (they have so much that
they'll keep making more, whatever they do). And Trump, while he may have
converted himself into a populist with a set of unbusinessman-like ideas, and
indeed was rejected during his campaign by most of America's leading executives,
yet now fills his cabinet with other rich business people.

Still, something clearly different has happened -- and it is frightening to many
people: these are rich men rich enough and entitled enough to do exactly as they
please. But notably, this same entitled impulse has them dramatically dissing
the establishment that they are part of.

That's one of the stranger aspects of the Trump populist phenomenon. Can there
be a more unlikely populist than Donald Trump, born into wealth and having lived
his life almost exclusively in penthouses and on red carpets and in newspaper
gossip columns? How again does he become the personification of the common man?
What precisely is that archetype?

Similarly, Gawker, Peter Thiel's target, was the gadfly, the take-no-prisoners
provocateur, a fearless gang lousing up the powerful, disregarding the usual
courtesies of a social-climbing world. That is until Thiel himself became all
those things, one-upping Gawker at every turn.

What happens when the rich -- or super rich -- become the disrupters?

The tech journalist Kara Swisher, a longtime Silicon Valley booster, asked a
similar question when the tech elite -- corralled and rather led by the nose by
Peter Thiel -- headed to meet with Trump last week. She was offended that the
tech icons of disruption were now being humbled by the disruptive new president,
quite unmindful of the irony that this might seem to many a satisfying leveling
of the playing field with one set of richies, previously dominant, now forced to
their knees in front of the currently dominant richie.

Thiel and Trump, upsetting the PR status quo, have both waged war against the
media. In the media's eyes this is Goliath against David. The media, no matter
how united in its views or unforgiving in its moral condemnations or lethal in
its attacks or chronically unpopular, yet believes it represents constitutional
freedoms and, speaking truth to power, the will of the people. The media's
stuck-pig howl of rage is about being challenged by  Thiel and Trump on this
point. Both billionaires have framed the media as a self-interested
concentration of wealth and power, out of touch with the larger world.

It is, to some degree, the powerful fighting it out with the powerful. It's
13th-century England and the barons are fighting the king. Or it's a Mafia war.

It's all quite an unexpected turn. The left-wing critique of the 1% and its
corporate concentrations sees a powerful group using its wealth to further its
own interests. But this critique seems not to have followed to the logical end
the nature of the willfulness and entitlements of the rich and powerful. The
natural result is for them to turn on each other. In this, at least in some not
implausible interpretation, the will of the people is defended against the
richie-rich autocracy by other richie riches.

This is our present and peculiar world where the rich are the rebels.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             424 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

UPS, FedEx are running on time for holidays;
Most gifts will arrive on schedule, the companies say

BYLINE: Charisse Jones, @charissejones, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 646 words


Despite being hit with a record-breaking onslaught of packages -- at times
roughly double the volume seen on a typical day -- the nation's biggest shippers
say they are keeping pace, making it likely that most holiday gifts will arrive
on time.

With online shopping surging this holiday season, FedEx and UPS, the two biggest
parcel carriers in the world, have increased their facilities, tapped into
technology, and hired tens of thousands of additional workers to help usher the
hottest toys, and even items like mattresses and tires, to doorsteps.

UPS is anticipating that it will deliver more than 30 million packages a day
this  week, almost twice the 16 million deliveries made during a more typical
24-hour period,  said company spokeswoman Susan Rosenberg.

Meanwhile FedEx, which has projected deliveries to be roughly 10% higher during
the peak holiday shipping season than those weeks in 2015, expects the four
Mondays between Thanksgiving and Christmas to be "amongst the busiest days in
the history of the company,"  said spokesman Patrick Fitzgerald.

Yet so far, both shippers are getting most deliveries to recipients' homes on
schedule. ShipMatrix Inc. found that between Dec. 4 and Dec. 10, 96.2% of
packages shipped via FedEx Ground were dropped off on time, slightly above the
rate of 95.3% during that week last year. And UPS Ground had an on-time delivery
rate of 93.1% vs. 93.2% during that period in 2015.

"It needs to be kept in perspective that this is not a few thousand packages
moving around the country,'' said ShipMatrix president Satish Jindel. Given the
volume of items, he said, the on-time rate "is, in my view, remarkable."

From Nov. 1 through Dec. 13, shoppers spent $66.91 billion online, an 8.31% leap
over last year, according to Adobe Digital Insights. And when it comes to
delivering those parcels purchased on a computer, tablet or smart phone, UPS is
second, and FedEx is third only to the U.S. Postal Service, Jindel said.

"The rise and rapid growth of e-commerce ... is certainly driving the demand in
residential deliveries," Fitzgerald said.

Not only are consumers spending more online, but the items that they are willing
to have dropped off at their front door has also changed. FedEx opened six
facilities this year, bringing the total number to eight, specifically to handle
bulkier packages containing items like tires, mattresses and home gyms. Unlike
previous years, those items are increasingly becoming part of the e-commerce
supply chain, Fitzgerald said.

Offers of free shipping to entice shoppers, and the influence of Amazon, are
also spurring more people to pick out items on their laptops or smart phones,
and then wait for them to arrive. "Amazon has probably single-handedly done more
to draw people onto e-commerce than all of the other retailers combined ...
proving to people you can get things in one day or two days that historically
used to be five or six days' delivery time," Jindel said.

Major shippers gear up for the holiday season months in advance.

UPS opened 15 new or expanded hubs, enlisted technology that allows staffers to
better discern items inside trailers that they need to sort through, and planned
to hire more than 95,000 temporary employees. FedEx expanded the ranks of
drivers, package handlers and other workers with roughly 50,000 new positions.

But expectations of high-speed deliveries, coupled with the growing number of
packages in the pipeline and the wild card of weather, increases the burden on
shippers.

"With growth rates above 20% in the coming weeks,"  said Tamara Gaffney,
principal analyst and director for Adobe Digital Insights, "if they have not
planned or get caught by large storms, shipping delays could become a problem."

Rosenberg of UPS  said that this year "there have been a few locations where
volume surged beyond expectations for that site, or weather caused some delay."


LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo ROBERTO SCHMIDT, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             425 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Venture capital firms lack diversity;
Reports shows tech industry is primarily white and male

BYLINE: Jessica Guynn, @jguynn, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 852 words


Venture capital, the tech industry's most exclusive club, is overwhelmingly
white and male.

A new report says it doesn't have to stay that way.

The first comprehensive look at the demographics of venture capital from its own
trade association is a sobering snapshot of what decades of exclusion of women
and minorities have wrought.

Women, African Americans and Latinos are significantly underrepresented in
venture capital, with few holding decision-making positions, according to the
report released Thursday by the National Venture Capital Association and
Deloitte University Leadership Center for Inclusion.

Women make up 45% of the venture capital work force, mostly in administrative
roles, but just 11% of investment partners, or the equivalent, on venture
investment teams.

African Americans make up 3% and Latinos 4% of the venture capital workforce.
None of the 217 firms with more than 2,500 employees had an African-American
investment partner.

That stark lack of diversity was already evident to anyone who perused the web
sites of venture firms or took a stroll through their upscale offices on Silicon
Valley's Sand Hill Road.

But the data gathered in the survey will serve as a critical benchmark by which
to measure progress in bringing more women and minorities into the field,  said
Kate Mitchell of Scale Venture Partners, who co-chairs the diversity task force
of the National Venture Capital Association.

Something else in the data offers a glimmer of hope that could persuade more
venture firms to focus on diversity initiatives, she said. According to the
survey, there's a direct link between outreach efforts and greater diversity.
Venture capital firms with diversity and inclusion strategies had a
significantly greater share of women and minorities in leadership.

"We are not surprised by the data by any stretch of the imagination," Mitchell
said. "But we got some data out of it that gives us a great sense of where we
need to focus."

Previous studies have consistently shown that venture capitalists are
predominantly white men who, in turn, mostly fund companies started and run by
other men. As a result, women and minorities have been largely left out of one
of the world's greatest wealth creation machines. Venture capital firms control
the spigot of wealth in high tech, providing early cash infusions to companies
they bet will go on to become tomorrow's Apples and Googles.

Diversity advocates have called on venture capital firms to make significant
changes in the wake of a closely watched gender discrimination lawsuit against
Kleiner Perkins, one of Silicon Valley's most prominent firms. Former partner
Ellen Pao lost her case, but international news coverage of the trial shifted
the spotlight on the lack of women and underrepresented minorities.

By and large, venture capital firms have failed to act on these calls to
increase the number of women and minorities in their ranks and to fund more
companies started by women and minorities, even though historically
underrepresented groups are seen as key drivers of future growth in high tech.
And, while the nation's leading technology companies open up about their efforts
to increase employee diversity, the recruitment of women and minorities is still
not a priority -- or even on the agenda -- at many venture firms or for the
start-ups they fund,  said Richard Kerby, a vice president with venture firm
Venrock who is African American.

A recent survey of 600 start-up investors and founders by LinkedIn bears that
out. More than half of investors surveyed said an entrepreneur's commitment to
diversity was the least of their concerns when deciding whether to invest. A
majority of investors and founders were not aware of any initiatives to increase
diversity among the companies in their portfolio or on their teams.

"There are three groups of partners in venture. There is one group that does not
care about diversity. There's a second group that cares but won't do anything
about it. And there's a third group, which is the smallest of the groups, that
does care and is trying to do some things," Kerby said.

The National Venture Capital Association  said it's owning up to the industry's
diversity problem and trying to do something about it. Study after study shows
employee diversity improves business and financial performance. And the tech
industry is appealing to a global marketplace, where women and minorities
increasingly wield economic power. Newer venture firms tend to be more diverse
-- more women, more minorities, more young people -- giving them an edge over
their more established peers.

"Everyone gets the principle of it, that this will make us better investors.
Nobody argues that," Mitchell said of her discussions with venture firms. "They
grasp it as an abstract thought but we will only succeed when that understanding
gets translated into practice."

That's  the job of the National Venture Capital Association,  said its CEO Bobby
Franklin. "As a trade association we feel like once a problem is identified, our
role is to help our members with the tools necessary to make a difference," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jefferson Graham, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             426 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Al Green answers to a high calling;
Above his music, he looks back on his faith and church

BYLINE: Bob Mehr, The (Memphis) Commercial Appeal

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 538 words


When Rev. Al Green gave his first sermon in 1976, the message was "I believe
therefore I am."

"I just believe what the Word says. I don't try and explain, explain, explain,"
Green says. "Every man's interpretation of (religion) is, I suppose, to his own
liking. But I don't think God is going to leave you much room to mistake about
it."

Sunday, the soul-singing superstar turned Baptist preacher celebrated the 40th
anniversary of his Full Gospel Tabernacle church in Memphis.

The occasion offered a rare opportunity to sit down with Green at his offices in
the Whitehaven area of the city.

An interview with Green is a little like watching a one-man show. He doesn't
answer questions so much as respond with stories and jokes, going off on random
riffs, singing snatches of his famous hits and doing spot-on imitations of Tom
Jones and Elvis Presley, among others. Whatever wild tangents or diversions he
takes, the discussion always returns back to Green's faith. It's what led him to
devote his life to the ministry and open Full Gospel Tabernacle on Dec. 18,
1976.

His music career -- both gospel and secular -- has proceeded in fits and starts
since then. Green has not been in the studio proper in the eight years since the
release of 2008's Lay it Down, an album co-produced by the Roots' Amir
"Questlove" Thompson, which paired him with a generation of younger artists like
John Legend and Anthony Hamilton.

But week after week he can be found leading services at his Full Gospel
Tabernacle. The church's congregation is spirited, if relatively small -- but
swells with the tourist season as fans and curious visitors come from all over
to see Green preach and sing.

He doesn't view these people as interlopers but rather as pilgrims. "You might
have come on your vacation -- we get a lot of that," Green says. "Well, we say:
'While you're here, why don't we do a little bit of Amazing Grace? It may help
you along your way.' I don't take it as anything else but an opportunity. If God
gives me this audience, I'll preach the Word to them."

Over the past few years, as his concert schedule dwindled, it appeared that
Green was inching toward a formal retirement from the stage. "It was burning me
out," he says. "I just wanted to take some time off to gather my head." Today,
Green allows he may eventually return to the road -- noting the possibility of a
tour of the Far East next year.

Asked if he has any remaining career goals -- he's a 14-time Grammy winner and a
member of the Rock and Roll, Gospel and Songwriters halls of fame -- Green
sighs. "I done did a lot of stuff, man. There's some things I'd like to do,
maybe (play) three or four cities of the United States and then go back to the
house and read some more of the (Bible)," he says, chuckling. "I'm not hankering
for anything, not really."

Green, who turned 70 in April, thinks often about heaven, the great reward that
awaits. As to whether he has done enough to make his way in, he seems assured.
"If you try and sincerely try, that's all we need. (Religion) says we'll perfect
that which is lacking in you," he says. "We'll perfect that which is lacking in
you. If you've got any shortcomings, we'll take care of that. Just try your
best. That's what I do."

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Karen Pulfer Focht, The Commercial Appeal

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             427 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Game shows are still getting play time;
As networks up the ante, viewers eager for contests

BYLINE: Gary Levin, @garymlevin, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 569 words


The world of unscripted TV has moved on from The Real World and Real Housewives,
but  viewers are still playing games.

Quiz shows, a staple (and scandal) from the 1950s to 1970s, never went away. But
programmers are tapping into the surprisingly durable genre with new shows, and
even LeBron James is getting into the act. The NBA superstar is among the
executive producers of NBC's The Wall, premiering Monday (10 ET/PT), which
combines The Price Is Right's Plinko with a trivia contest and another game-show
staple -- the isolation booth -- to hand out cash to sometimes struggling
couples. Chris Hardwick (Talking Dead, @midnight) hosts.

"It's about real people and real stories, and we give them a chance to change
their lives, just like us," says Maverick Carter, James' business manager and
fellow producer, who also was his childhood pal in Akron, Ohio.

The 10-episode series, which also airs Jan. 2 before settling in the next night
(Tuesdays at 8 ET/PT), features contestant couples who answer multiple-choice
trivia questions. Right answers send green balls down a wall, divided into lanes
that determine the cash payout. Wrong answers turn the balls red and subtract
money from the prize pot.

"When you see the ball come down, you feel like you're watching a basketball
game," Carter says. "With every bounce, things change in front of your eyes."

In a season when ratings for sitcoms and dramas have mostly tumbled,
long-running game shows have been more stable. The daytime Family Feud, hosted
by Steve Harvey, is averaging 9.8 million viewers, up 7%. ABC peppered its
summer schedule with a quartet of revived shows -- Celebrity Family Feud, The
$100,000 Pyramid, Match Game and To Tell the Truth -- and will begin airing new
episodes of Match (Jan. 4) and Truth (Jan. 1). CBS' The Price Is Right and Let's
Make a Deal have been daytime staples for decades. The network also has
announced plans for a prime-time series based on the Candy Crush Saga game app.
NBC has its own celebrity-driven Hollywood Game Night.

Cable network GSN, up 4% this year in prime time, airs wall-to-wall games.

The shows are cheaper to produce than a prime-time drama and perform well in
repeats and as replacements for canceled shows. The downside for youth-obsessed
advertisers: The genre skews old as the median age of Jeopardy! and Wheel of
Fortune viewers is over 65.

But a successful game can earn boatloads of money for the contestants -- and the
TV industry. ABC's Who Wants to Be a Millionaire reignited the genre in 1999,
peaking at an eye-popping 36 million viewers before petering out in 2002, though
a syndicated version continues to air in daytime. NBC's The Weakest Link
(2001-02) and Deal or No Deal (2005-09) both peaked at 18 million, and Fox's Are
You Smarter Than a 5th Grader (2007-09; a brief 2015 revival) scored early on. A
major flop: NBC's The Million Second Quiz (2013), a live and hugely expensive
two-week stunt hosted by Ryan Seacrest.

"Millionaire asks 11 questions over an hour ... and I thought it was
interminable," says Paul Telegdy, NBC's reality-programming chief. The Wall
"felt like something fun and exciting was happening with regularity that changed
the pace of a prime-time game show." Aside from encouraging viewers to play
along at home, what's the appeal? "A lot of people don't have their moment in
the sun," he says. "Game shows can make a big, spectacular moment for a regular
person."

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo photos by Evans Vestal Ward, NBC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             428 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Frigid day filled with hot finishes;
Beckham on fire; Osweiler, Bradley feel cold reality

BYLINE: USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 977 words


The 40 things we learned from Week 15 of the NFL season:

1. Baby, it was cold out there on Sunday as the polar vortex took over Week 15.

2. The dramatic endings in four of the early-afternoon games warmed the hearts
of those who came out on the right side of the score, but that doesn't mean it
was all warm and fuzzy Sunday.

3. The coldest move was made by the Jaguars, who fired coach Gus Bradley after
the loss to the Texans. We knew it was coming, but with two weeks left? Happy
holidays.

4. And since the Jaguars were in Houston, Bradley flew home on the team charter.
#brrrr

5. The chill move was made by Texans coach Bill O'Brien, who yanked QB Brock
Osweiler after a couple of early interceptions.

6. Tom Savage came in, completed a 32-yard pass and went on to win the game, and
we have a quarterback discussion in Houston.

7. And whoever thought a first-place team after 15 weeks would be meeting behind
closed doors and deciding whether Osweiler or Savage could lead them to the
Super Bowl? #yikes

8. Packers QB Aaron Rodgers showed the ice in his veins with a last-second,
60-yard completion to Jordy Nelson that helped Green Bay win a game it almost
threw into Lake Michigan.

9. Speaking of ice, Chiefs coach Andy Reid used a timeout to try to ice Titans
kicker Ryan Succop in the final seconds of the game. The timeout, as they
usually do in those situations, came right before the snap, so Succop went
through with the kick. It was short. After being "iced," he made the 53-yarder
to beat his former team.

10. No matter what the weather, Odell Beckham Jr. wears gloves on Sundays. And
if you saw the way the ball stuck to that glove on his clinching TD, you know
it's not just a fashion statement.

11. We were happy the league gave referee Ed Hochuli a game in Houston so he
could wear a short-sleeved shirt. #guns

12. For the record, the Baltimore Ravens were the first team to score in the
early games.

13. New England earned a first-round bye. Rinse, wash, repeat.

14. The Raiders are back in the playoffs. And the world is a better place
because of it.

15. We wouldn't have blamed Vikings coach Mike Zimmer if he had used patches to
cover both of his eyes during that 34-6 debacle.

16. Titans coach Mike Mularkey going for two points instead of the tie, on the
road, with 3:12 to go in the game? Wow! That failed.

17. The Titans pulled it out anyway. Double wow.

18. Vikings DL Linval Joseph, all 329 pounds of him, attempted one of those
try-to-hurdle-the-long-snapper-without-touching-him plays on a field goal
attempt. It turned out like you thought it would.

19. What made it even sillier was it gave the Colts a first-and-goal and
eventually a touchdown. We should have known then what kind of day it would be
for Minnesota.

20. It seemed like referee Walt Anderson was sighing every time he announced a
penalty during the Patriots-Broncos game. We feel ya.

21. The no-shows in Chicago: 16,536. Were the Cubs playing?

22. If you wait long enough, the Bengals always remember the script: Defensive
penalties on four consecutive snaps were a big part of the Steelers' drive that
gave them the lead for good in the fourth quarter.

23. Before we pat GM John Elway on the back for passing on Osweiler, let's
remember he offered a reported $16 million per season for the QB to stay in
Denver.

24. So Elway might have gotten lucky that Osweiler left, but it wasn't like he
was showing him the door.

25. Did people really criticize Doug Pederson for going for two after the Eagles
scored to draw within one point of the Ravens with four seconds to go?

26. When you're 5-8, do you really want to play for a tie?

27. The Jaguars hadn't had an interception since Week 4 before picking off
Osweiler twice.

28. We are Jeff Fisher fans. Really, we are. But that was one whiny interview
with Fox Sports on Sunday. Dude, you would have fired yourself if you were the
owner. Probably long ago.

29. We're glad we're not Woody Johnson (except for the whole money thing). The
Jets actually played hard, for the most part Saturday night, before melting
under an avalanche of mistakes. So what to do with coach Todd Bowles? Not an
easy decision.

30. And we don't know what to make of the fact Johnson actually left the stadium
before the game was over. Except we don't blame him.

31. Ndamukong Suh can certainly disrupt an offense when he is on his game. For a
while there, we thought he was a Jets running back he was in their backfield so
often.

32. Your head will hurt reading all the playoff possibilities in the AFC South,
so know this: If either the Texans or Titans win out, they win the title. The
Colts need to win out and get help.

33. Pete Carroll. So easy to dislike. A fake punt when up 25 points with just
more than five minutes to play Thursday night? That's almost as stupid as
calling for a pass play from the 1-yard line with the Super Bowl on the line.
Almost.

34. So now the reports say Buffalo will fire Rex Ryan but keep GM Doug Whaley.
It will be the third head coach Whaley has a say in hiring. Which, to us, is one
too many.

35. Maybe Ryan will get the benefit of the doubt because five of his (seven)
wins have come against high-quality opponents: Browns, Jaguars, Patriots
(without Brady), Rams and 49ers. #kidding

36. Memo to Rams QB Jared Goff: Get the hell out of bounds.

37. This Ty Montgomery from WR-to-RB transition during the season isn't getting
the attention it should. Guy had 123 yards rushing in the first half against the
Bears.

38. Chargers owner Dean Spanos and Raiders owner Mark Davis were said to have
had an animated conversation on the field before the game. Oh, to have been a
proverbial fly on that midfield logo.

39. Adrian Peterson's return: 22 yards on six carries with one fumble. Guess he
wasn't the missing piece to the Vikings offense after all.

40. We tried to tell you to keep an eye on the Giants earlier this season. Hope
you were listening.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Kirby Lee, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             429 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Reid leaves Senate with a legacy that will help Trump

BYLINE: Erin Kelly, and Seth Richardson, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 472 words


When President-elect Donald Trump looks to the Senate for confirmation of his
Cabinet nominees next year, he'll have outgoing Senate Minority Leader Harry
Reid to thank for Democrats' powerlessness to block his choices.

The Nevada Democrat, a fierce Trump opponent who often referred to the
president-elect as "a spoiled brat," took dramatic action in 2013 to end
Republicans' ability to mount a filibuster to derail President Obama's judicial
and Cabinet nominees.

Reid, who was majority leader at the time, used a parliamentary move known as
the "nuclear option" to change a nearly 40-year-old Senate rule. The change
meant that the Senate now needs only a simple majority of 51 votes -- rather
than a super-majority of 60 -- to proceed to confirmation votes on Cabinet
secretaries, agency directors and judges, except for the Supreme Court.

Reid, who leaves a legacy as a master parliamentarian, said he's still glad he
did it, despite the fact that the rule change will now be used by the Republican
majority to help Trump staff his administration.

"We changed the Senate rules to guarantee a president's nominees a fair,
simple-majority vote," he wrote in a recent op-ed in The New York Times. "I
doubt any of us envisioned Donald J. Trump's becoming the first president to
take office under the new rules."

The change in filibuster rules was just one of the many procedural tactics that
Reid employed during his 12 years as Democratic leader to win passage of
President Obama's most ambitious goals.

Using the procedural tricks at his disposal, Reid pushed through approval of the
Affordable Care Act in 2010 -- the "Obamacare" law that Republicans are seeking
to dismantle -- and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act in 2009, an $800
billion stimulus bill that sought to lift the country out of recession by
creating jobs repairing roads, bridges and highways while also expanding
unemployment benefits.

"I've done the best that I can," Reid said last week at his final news
briefing. "And I don't have any regrets whatsoever about my efforts to push
forward a Democratic agenda."

Reid will be succeeded in the new Congress by incoming Minority Leader Charles
Schumer, D-N.Y., a gregarious, ebullient Brooklynite whose style stands in stark
contrast to the tough, taciturn tactician from tiny Searchlight, Nev., who
shunned Washington's social life and eschewed small talk.

Schumer said there is compassion beneath Reid's no-nonsense demeanor. "Beneath
the quietness is a strength and a caringness," he said. "He's very strategic and
very smart."

But Reid's unapologetic partisanship has also made him a target of critics.

"For me, his time here has been one of failure, obstruction and gridlock," said
Wyoming Sen. John Barrasso, chairman of the Senate Republican Policy Committee.

Richardson reports for the Reno Gazette-Journal.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Carolyn Kaster, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             430 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Jaguars fire Bradley after sinking to 2-12

BYLINE: Lorenzo Reyes, @LorenzoGReyes, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 365 words


There are now two head coaching vacancies in the NFL.

After the Jacksonville Jaguars blew a 13-point lead in a loss Sunday, the club
announced it had fired Gus Bradley.

The Jaguars fell to 2-12 after losing 21-20 to the Houston Texans. With the
loss, Bradley's career record in Jacksonville fell to 14-48 over nearly four
full seasons. That makes him the head coach with the lowest winning percentage
in the Super Bowl era (.226) with a minimum of 50 games coached.

The Jaguars were a popular preseason pick to compete for the AFC South title,
but third-year quarterback Blake Bortles regressed and the offense left a
talented defense consistently compromised.

Team owner Shad Khan announced the move in a statement shortly after Sunday's
early-afternoon game.

"I thanked Gus Bradley today for his commitment to the Jacksonville Jaguars over
the past four seasons," Khan's statement read. "As anyone close to our team
knows, Gus gave his staff and players literally everything he had. Our players
competed for Gus and I know they have great respect for him, as do I.

"Gus also represented the Jaguars, the Jacksonville community and the NFL in
nothing less than a first-class manner as our head coach. That counts for a lot.
It is unfortunately evident that we must make a change. I thought it would be
best to do it immediately after today's result so Gus can step away, relax and
regroup with his family during the Christmas and holiday season.

"(General manager) Dave Caldwell agreed and will now be charged with exploring
all options to hire the best head coach possible to lead what I feel is an
extremely talented team and reward a very loyal and patient fan base in
Jacksonville."

That Caldwell is mentioned in Khan's statement indicates the Jaguars probably
will not be having a complete overhaul of the front office.

One potential candidate to take over for Bradley on an interim basis is
assistant head coach Doug Marrone, who also oversees the offensive line. He
compiled a 15-17 record in two seasons (2013-14) as head coach of the Buffalo
Bills.

Bradley joins Jeff Fisher, whom the Los Angeles Rams fired Dec. 12, as former
head coaches who will be looking for new roles this offseason.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Reinhold Matay, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             431 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Packers' victory sends clear message

BYLINE: Nancy Armour, narmour@usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 723 words


Anyone who failed to see this coming hasn't been watching Aaron Rodgers and the
Green Bay Packers.

After the Packers gagged up a 17-point lead in the fourth quarter, Rodgers
responded with another play for his highlight reel of late-game heroics. His
60-yard strike to Jordy Nelson set up Mason Crosby's game-winning field goal as
time expired, and the 30-27 victory gave a big boost to the Packers' playoff
chances.

With the Detroit Lions losing, the Packers are one game behind in the NFC North
race.

The teams meet in the regular-season finale in what is looking more and more
like a winner-take-all game. Not bad for a team that almost everyone outside the
Green Bay locker room wrote off a month ago.

"We've just got to worry about ourselves," Rodgers said. "We let them get back
in with a couple of really poor drives on offense. But when we had to have a
play, we made it.

"It's good to get the win, and everything's right in front of us now."

And the Lions should be looking over their shoulders.

When Green Bay was 4-6, things looked so dismal some folks were clamoring for
Mike McCarthy's job. The offense was completely out of sorts, and Rodgers barely
resembled a two-time NFL MVP. The defense was getting pushed all over the field,
and turnovers were little more than a rumor.

With Detroit pulling further and further away, the season looked lost. Which
only meant that it was right where Rodgers and the Packers wanted it.

There is something about December that brings out the best in Rodgers and the
Packers, and it's not Wisconsin's best holiday cheer. The Packers are 32-13 in
December in McCarthy's 11 seasons. Rodgers began the game with an NFL-best
passer rating of 102.8 in December games and third with 64 passing touchdowns.

If the Packers aren't leading the division at this time of year, they're
building momentum that often translates into a deep run in the playoffs. No one
knows that better than the Chicago Bears.

In 2010, the Packers had to beat the NFC North champs to make the playoffs.
Three weeks later, they beat the Bears in the NFC title game and then won the
Super Bowl.

"The guys in here are very resilient. They understand the moment," said Packers
linebacker Julius Peppers, who has a unique appreciation for the December surge
after watching it from Chicago from 2010 to 2013.

"We were at a point where we couldn't lose any more games, and I think everybody
understood that," Peppers added. "It started to click. The energy and intensity
went up a little bit -- not that it wasn't already up, but obviously when your
back is against a wall, it goes up a little more."

Take Sunday's game.

With Rodgers limited by a strained right calf, Ty Montgomery and the defense
picked up the slack. Montgomery gouged the Bears for 162 yards, the bulk of
Green Bay's 226 yards on the ground, and the defense forced Matt Barkley into
turnovers (three interceptions, one fumble) on four consecutive possessions.

The Packers scored 17 points off turnovers at the start of the second half,
giving them a 27-10 lead going into the final 15 minutes.

But Green Bay's defense eased up, and the Bears scored two quick touchdowns. It
would have been three if not for Micah Hyde batting Barkley's third-down pass to
Cameron Meredith away at the goal line.

"We've got to find a way not to relax, not to take our foot off the gas," said
Ha Ha Clinton-Dix, who had two of the three picks off Barkley. "We've got to
find a way to finish ballgames. We won the ballgame, first and foremost, but I
understand what you're saying and understand what you're seeing."

After Hyde's breakup play, Bears coach John Fox elected to kick the tying field
goal. While it's hard to argue with guaranteed points, it left far too much time
for Rodgers to do what he does best.

The Packers quickly were facing third-and-11. They hadn't converted a third down
since the first quarter, but Rodgers bought himself time and then saw Nelson
sprinting down the left sideline.

"I just tried to put enough air on it for him to underneath it," Rodgers said.
"That's what he does. He makes those kind of catches."

And this is what Rodgers and the Packers do. When the game and the season are on
the line, they find ways to make plays.

That ominous sound the Lions -- and everyone else in the NFL, for that matter --
heard Sunday was Rodgers and the Packers, coming up from behind.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Dennis Wierzbicki, USA TODAY Sports Wierzbicki,

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             432 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Patriots bust Broncos;
Victory clinches AFC East, avenges title-game defeat

BYLINE: Lindsay H. Jones, @bylindsayhjones, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 583 words


It often seems that the regular season is just some sort of joyless pursuit for
the New England Patriots, for whom AFC East titles are something so routine that
they are hardly worth celebrating.

Not so Sunday.

After a 16-3 defeat of the Denver Broncos that clinched New England's eighth
consecutive division title (and 14th in the last 16 seasons), plenty of Patriots
players gleefully donned their AFC East championship hats and T-shirts. The most
excited were newcomers such as tight end Martellus Bennett, who hasn't played in
the postseason since 2009, when he was a second-year player with the Dallas
Cowboys. Defensive end Chris Long didn't make the playoffs in eight seasons with
the St. Louis Rams.

But even veterans such as cornerback Logan Ryan and wide receiver Julian Edelman
were eager to celebrate, too, in large part because of where the victory
occurred and how.

The Patriots (12-2) held the Broncos' struggling offense to one first-half field
goal and forced three turnovers that led to 10points. Meanwhile, New England's
running backs rushed for 137 yards and one touchdown. Quarterback Tom Brady
threw for only 188 yards against Denver's top-ranked pass defense, but he
received far superior protection than he did here 11months ago, when he was hit
at least 20times in the Patriots' AFC Championship Game loss.

It was just Brady's third win in 10 games in Denver and his first at Sports
Authority Field at Mile High since 2011, when the Denver quarterback was Tim
Tebow.

"This is just big for us. I've been here four years and haven't won in Denver.
Probably one of the only places I haven't won," Ryan said. "How they ended our
year last year, this was definitely a personal game for us. I don't care what
anyone says. We want to come out and play well."

In addition to the division title, New England clinched a first-round bye and is
one step closer to securing home-field advantage in the AFC playoffs.

"Our goals now reset, but this is the first one. It's definitely something to be
proud of," coach Bill Belichick said.

The Patriots also showed why they might be the most dangerous team in the
postseason field. They have discovered a powerful running game, using a
combination of smaller backs Dion Lewis and James White along with bruiser
LeGarrette Blount on Sunday to neutralize Denver's pass rush. Brady rarely tried
to test the Broncos deep, preferring to hand the ball off inside or quickly dump
off short passes to Lewis, White and Edelman, who had six catches for 75 yards.

That game plan, plus vastly improved pass protection for Brady, who was sacked
twice, shows just how many different ways the Patriots can win.

"Our offensive line took a lot of pride this week in their preparation for this
game. They've been working their tails off all year," Edelman said. "You can say
they're young, you can say this or that, but they've been playing solid
football. We were able to run the ball pretty decently when we had to, and when
we can protect, it makes things easier."

But the biggest revelation might be the Patriots defense, which has held each of
its last five opponents to 23 points or fewer.

Sunday, Ryan intercepted Broncos quarterback Trevor Siemian on Denver's only
trip into the red zone. Denver failed to record a first down on five consecutive
possessions to start the second half. The Patriots sacked Siemian four times and
held Denver to 58 rushing yards, 13 of which came on Justin Forsett's first
carry of the game.

"I thought we deserved to win," Belichick said.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Ron Chenoy, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             433 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Top Army general to review issues plaguing brass;
Three-star officer will examine problems of misconduct, suicide

BYLINE: Tom Vanden Brook, @tvandenbrook, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 609 words


The Army has named a three-star officer to review its burgeoning problem of
sexual misconduct among senior officers and the shocking suicide this summer of
a top general, Army Secretary Eric Fanning told USA TODAY.

The Army also instituted a  procedure that prompts the review of the security
clearances of top brass to be triggered by investigations of misconduct, Fanning
said Friday. The new approach to clearances, which grant troops and civilians
access to national security secrets, stems from a USA TODAY report on a senior
officer fired from his job last spring but allowed to retain his clearance for
several months.

Lt. Gen. Edward Carbon will examine the recent spate of top officers felled by
misdeeds, and, one, Maj. Gen. John Rossi, who killed himself, Fanning said.

"This has hit the general officer corps pretty hard," Fanning said of the
suicide.

Fanning stressed that the overall number of complaints lodged against the Army's
top officers and senior civilians has remained relatively low and dipped in the
most recent reporting period, fiscal year 2016, which ended  Sept.30. The vast
majority of that group of about 560 senior officials perform their duties
honorably, he said.

Data do, however, show what Fanning referred to as "an uptick" in extramarital
affairs and other misbehavior. An internal Army report found that "most
concerning is that seven allegations of sexual misconduct, inappropriate
relationships and sexual harassment were substantiated in FY16. This constituted
a significant increase from the two allegations involving sexual misconduct that
were substantiated in FY15. These types of cases have a significant negative
impact on the Army and its image."

The Army has been rocked by several high-profile cases of top officers felled by
extramarital affairs, carousing and suicide. Among the findings of
investigators: Maj. Gen. David Haight, the "swinging general," had an 11-year
affair and led a "swinger lifestyle" and Maj. Gen. Ron Lewis, who had been the
three-star adviser to Defense Secretary Ash Carter, frequented strip clubs, got
drunk in public and had improper interactions with women. Rossi took his  life
in July, just days before he was to be become a three-star general.

Fanning speculated that the multiple combat tours over the past 15 years of
soldiers like Haight, and their long absences from their families, may have
contributed to their misconduct.

"We want to have a better understanding of the impact that has on our senior
officers, and look for ways that we can mitigate any causes or linkages that we
see," Fanning said.

The problem does not appear to be widespread, he said, but continual combat
stress may be a common thread for those who violate military rules and laws.

"I don't think there's a problem because I don't think the numbers bear that
out," Fanning said. "But if you look at that small subset of the general officer
larger population, we want to understand why. My guess is there's something
systemic in there. We want to get at it and be pre-emptive about it."

One immediate action is the automatic review of security clearance status for
top officials under investigation. Lt. Gen. Gary Cheek, the director of the Army
staff, has been directed to remove the loophole that allowed Haight to retain
his clearance for several months after he had been fired from a top post with
U.S. European Command.

"We've got him fixing that," Fanning said of Cheek.

Security clearances are required for top officers and senior officials to review
secret information. They can retain the clearances after retirement and have
value because they are often required for jobs in the defense industry.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Win McNamee, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             434 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Off week can foil season quickly

BYLINE: Steve Gardner, @SteveAGardner, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 488 words


The biggest problem with fantasy football's head-to-head format is  the best
team doesn't always win. An untimely injury, a bad matchup or an off day by a
superstar  can derail a season.

Sunday, the touchdown vultures were out in full force -- and the timing couldn't
have been worse for owners in the semifinal round of the fantasy playoffs.

Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers didn't throw a touchdown pass for
the first time this season as wideout-turned-running back Ty Montgomery carried
the load, rushing for 162 yards and two TDs.

DeMarco Murray of the Tennessee Titans has carried his fantasy teams all season,
entering Week 15 as the third-ranked running back. He was solid again, racking
up 89 yards on the ground and 52 more through the air. But backup Derrick Henry
got the ball in the red zone and scored the Titans' two TDs.

For the Indianapolis Colts, backup running back Robert Turbin scored on a pair
of short touchdown runs and third-string tight end Erik Swoope caught a TD pass,
while season-long standouts Frank Gore and T.Y. Hilton never sniffed the end
zone.

Back in action

Adrian Peterson has amazed fantasy owners before with his ability to return from
injuries earlier than expected. So it was tempting to put Peterson in the lineup
when he made his first appearance since injuring a knee in Week 2. But the
Minnesota Vikings rank last in the NFL in rushing -- and not even Peterson could
make a difference. He carried six times for 22 yards and lost a fumble. Don't
expect much more in Week 16 either.

Chicago Bears wideout Alshon Jeffery returned Sunday after serving a four-game
suspension. He was held without a reception in the first half but came on strong
as the Bears rallied late. He finished with six catches for 89 yards and a
touchdown.

QB switch

With Brock Osweiler completing six of 11 passes for 48 yards and throwing two
interceptions, a change was in order for the Houston Texans. Enter Tom Savage, a
fourth-round pick in 2014 with a total of 19 pass attempts in his career. He
didn't throw a TD pass, but he didn't have any interceptions. He completed 23 of
36 passes for 260 yards and rallied the Texans to a one-point win.  Savage made
a case for increased playing time, if not a starting job.

Marching down the field

Despite having the NFL's No.1 offense, the New Orleans Saints struggled the
previous two weeks. Drew Brees failed to throw a TD pass in consecutive weeks
for the first time. But he rebounded by  completing 37 of 48 passes for 389
yards and four TDs. Brandin Cooks was Brees' favorite receiver with seven
receptions for 186 yards and two TDs.

Broad Shoulders Award

Our weekly award for the player who single-handedly carried his fantasy teams to
victory goes to Atlanta Falcons running back Devonta Freeman. Despite splitting
touches with Tevin Coleman, Freeman gained 139 yards on 20 carries and scored
three TDs. He added 16 yards on two catches for 31.5 fantasy points.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Dennis Wierzbicki, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             435 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

Baby, it's cold outside - but that's changing;
Less chilly temps on the way this week

BYLINE: Bart Jansen, @ganjansen, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 303 words


Chilly temperatures may feel unseasonably warm by Wednesday when the forecast
returns to normal after a weekend blast of frigid air and scattered snowstorms
across the Upper Plains, Midwest and East Coast.

Dramatic temperature gains forecast from Monday to Tuesday afternoon include
Oklahoma City jumping from freezing to nearly 50 degrees, according to
AccuWeather.com. Chicago will leap from the teens to nearly 30.

The East Coast will take a little longer to shake off the chill after a storm
front moved out to sea Sunday. But New York and Boston should each reach highs
in the 40s by Wednesday, according to AccuWeather.

"After a few days of below-normal temperatures in the Midwest and eastern U.S.
early in the week, highs will return to near average by Wednesday," AccuWeather
meteorologist Max Vido said.

The relative warmth makes new snow unlikely for Christmas on the I-95 corridor.
"For those dreaming of a white Christmas, they'll have to rely on unmelted snow
cover from previously fallen snow," Vido said. "This area will be across the
interior Northeast, lake-effect snow regions and throughout the Midwest."

The Midwest and Upper Plains may appreciate the calm.

Record-low temperatures were recorded across South Dakota, Iowa and Minnesota
during the weekend, and a blizzard shut down parts of Interstate 90 in Montana.
Huron, S.D., and Marshall, Minn., each set a record for Sunday's date at 31
degrees below zero, according to the National Weather Service.

The arctic blast led to numerous highway accidents and at least six
storm-related fatalities.

Indiana had dozens of crashes because of freezing rain and ice. The roads were
so slick that authorities had to move motorists stranded on an overpass with a
ladder.

Airlines canceled more than 1,100 flights by 3 p.m. Sunday,  according to
Flightaware.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Mike DiNovo, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             436 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

'Repeal and delay' means millions lose health coverage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 530 words


For six years, congressional Republicans have been trying to kill the Affordable
Care Act, also known as Obamacare. They've passed no fewer than 60 measures to
repeal all or part of it, none of which has become law. Now, with a Republican
about to move into the White House, they are in a position to get their way.

The only problem is, they are like the proverbial dog who finally catches the
car and doesn't know what to do.

Defunding the health law through a budget process known as reconciliation would
be easy enough: It takes only a majority in both chambers of Congress. But this
would wreak havoc on the American health care system. As a coalition of
hospitals made clear recently, it would unleash an "unprecedented public health
crisis" as uninsured patients pour into emergency rooms.

So Republicans have come up with the idea of passing a measure next month that
would repeal Obamacare, but with a postponement of a few years before it goes
into effect. In the interim, they would attempt to do what they have not been
able to do in decades of trying: agree on their own health care plan.

This "repeal and delay" approach is a complete cop-out. If Republicans want to
kill Obamacare, they need to come up with a replacement now, both to show they
can do it and to avoid destabilizing health care markets through years of
uncertainty.

Any plan to defund Obamacare, whether it takes effect immediately or not, would
prompt insurers to pull out of its marketplaces. That, in turn, would leave
millions of people in the lurch.

The fact is, insurers are already pulling out of Obamacare, thanks to flaws in
the law. Penalties for not buying insurance were set too low, prompting many
young and healthy Americans to pay the penalty knowing  they could buy insurance
later if they get sick.

With pools of older and sicker patients, insurers have jacked up premiums or
pulled out of exchanges altogether. If Congress sets an end date for the program
with no clarity of what, if anything, would follow it, insurers would turn a
gradual move to the exit into a stampede.

Obamacare has allowed 20 million people to gain access to insurance and has
given Americans the right to buy insurance regardless of previous conditions. It
also has significant Republican DNA in it. The law bears a striking resemblance
to a measure offered in 1993 by 18 Republican and two Democratic senators as an
alternative to the more unwieldy approach being pushed by Bill and Hillary
Clinton. Two of those senators, Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, and Charles Grassley,
R-Iowa, remain in office.

Ideally, Republicans would fix what is wrong with Obamacare by adding incentives
and penalties to entice young people to join insurance pools. They might also
make some changes that conform to their liking, such as shifting some patients
off Medicaid and onto private markets and allowing plans to sell across state
lines. But their approach of offering vague concepts of what might or might not
pass at some future point is entirely unworkable.

Until Republicans come up with a credible replacement plan, one that could pass
simultaneously with repeal, they should follow the lead of medical
professionals: First, do no harm.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jacquelyn Martin, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             437 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

CRITIC'S CORNER

BYLINE: Robert Bianco, @BiancoRobert, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 184 words


MICHELLE OBAMA SAYS FAREWELL TO THE WHITE HOUSE

CBS, 8 ET/PT

Oprah Winfrey has an exit interview with the first lady, who is expected to talk
about her life, her legacy and her plans for the future. Afterward, 2 Broke
Girls and The Odd Couple, which -- with pre-empted Kevin Can Wait and Man with a
Plan -- represent the worst four-comedy lineup of recent decades, exit for their
fall break. Broke Girls is a lost cause. (It's so terrible, you might almost
suspect CBS keeps bringing it back just to prove it can.) But goodness, with the
people involved in Kevin, Man and Couple, the real question isn't why aren't
they better -- it's how do they manage to be this bad?

CHRISTMAS WITH THE MORMON TABERNACLE CHOIR

PBS, 9 ET/PT

(times may vary)

Tony nominee Laura Osnes and British star Martin Jarvis join the choir for this
annual Christmas concert. It's also an annual TV tradition, and one some music
lovers cherish.

The Wall NBC, 10 ET/PT

This new game show comes from LeBron James. Hosted by Chris Hardwick and set in
a large arena, the game centers on a huge wall -- but you guessed that already.

(Story, 2D)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Evans Vestal Ward, NBC Photo by Amanda Lucidon via CBS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             438 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

This is our last safeguard against catastrophe

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 499 words


LETTERS

I would urge our electors, as they contemplate their role -- designed by the
Founding Fathers as an emergency brake to protect the country from an unfit
president -- to remember our children.

It's our children who will suffer the most if Donald Trump is elected, as he has
already indicated that he may undermine some of our democracy's most precious
and hard-fought principles.

It's our children who will suffer the most as they look up to this man, who
embodies almost everything we hope they will not become -- selfish, arrogant,
dishonest and power-hungry.

And ultimately it's our children who will suffer the most, because this man, who
believes he knows more about everything than anyone else, could lead us into war
and could irreparably and irreversibly damage the global environment.

The electors have an awesome responsibility to protect our country and the
world. Let us pray they find the wisdom and the courage to do so.

Eric Chivian

Boston

One of the most important elections in the history of our nation is happening
today. While the Electoral College is an antiquated and undemocratic institution
that should be eliminated, we should focus on the fact that it is the only thing
standing between us and the catastrophe that should befall our nation and the
world if Donald Trump is sworn in as president.

Whether we think about the nuclear arsenal, the Supreme Court, climate change,
conflicts of interest, incompetent diplomacy or the future of vulnerable
populations, it is clear that we must do whatever we can to stop a Trump
presidency. For those of us who hoped that the magnitude of the responsibility
of being elected president would humble his colossal ego and awaken the better
angels of his nature, Trump's actions and appointees thus far demonstrate that
these angels, if they ever existed, are long dead. The only important function
of the Electoral College is to serve as a way to prevent an unqualified
candidate like Trump from taking office. If we are stuck with the Electoral
College, we should use it for a noble purpose.

Mark Berkson

St. Paul

TWITTER

We asked our followers whether the Electoral College voters should vote their
conscience or as their state did.

Vote their conscience. If the Founding Fathers wanted them to vote with the
people, they wouldn't need them; majority would elect.

@S_E_Phillips

With reports of Russian interference in our election and Donald Trump's denial
of the fact, Electoral College, vote your conscience.

@BLACKGRLPOLI

Electors should abstain and demand intelligence briefings. No vote until
information has been shared with Congress and electors.

@lisagarner_lisa

This isn't about party, it's about democracy. We've been gifted a glimpse into
the future since Nov. 9. Please vote accordingly.

@suzspetals

If the Electoral College acts as a rubber stamp and not as a protection against
a demagogue, it should be abolished, and the popular vote should be used to
elect the president.

@AnitaFinlay

For more, follow @USATOpinion or #tellusatoday.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             439 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

We should be thanking Russia for the hacking

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 262 words


FACEBOOK

The FBI is now backing the CIA's assessment that Russian hackers sought in part
to tilt the election in favor of candidate Donald Trump.

Yeah, the FBI has so much credibility. Can't wait for the speech where FBI
Director James Comey lays out everything that happened for 15 minutes then says,
"Well, actually, nothing to see here."

Christopher Bacon

In light of all this, we must redo the election or postpone handing Donald Trump
the presidency.

This will give us a fantastic opportunity to create laws that will require
candidates get vetted. This will assure we never suffer this fiasco again.

Gabriel Kaplan

Well, in that case, we owe the Russians a big debt of gratitude. They did the
job of exposing and telling the truth, which our news media (and government)
didn't do.

Thank you, Russian President Vladimir Putin or whoever did it. Probably some
"kid in a basement," but it doesn't matter. The right thing was done, for once.

Don Scotter

So the Russians disclosed true but unflattering emails relating to Hillary
Clinton's campaign and they are labeled as bad guys?

Rob Droney

Why won't Trump accept the facts? Why does he trust the Russians more than he
trusts our intelligence agencies? Does this make anyone feel safe?

Walt Stasinski

Last I checked, the Obama administration was in charge of national security. Any
breach is on Obama. Exposing the corruption in the Democratic National Committee
was a good thing.

Putin and Trump should share the Nobel Peace Prize. Clinton should be in jail;
she got exactly what she deserved, the American people saw to that.

Abe Oaks

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             440 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Wahlberg summons his 'Boston Strong';
He felt a duty to tell the story of his city's heart

BYLINE: Bryan Alexander, @BryAlexand, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 493 words


Mark Wahlberg was initially wary in 2015 about the reaction he might receive
when signing on to star in and produce a movie about the Boston Marathon
bombing.

The Dorchester native was sure he had a profound story to tell. But attending a
Boston Celtics game after the movie news broke, Wahlberg feared the project
focusing on the 2013 tragedy that killed 3 and injured 264  might provoke barbs
from the TD Garden crowd. Especially when he was featured on the Jumbotron.

"But people started going crazy, they started chanting 'Boston Strong! Boston
Strong!'" Wahlberg recalls, adding that the crowd and chants continued in the
parking lot.

"My car was shaking back and forth. I got out of the car, and people were still
chanting 'Boston Strong!' It was amazing," Wahlberg says. "Seeing that obviously
reaffirmed my instinct of just how important it was to tell this story. And that
it was just as important for me to be the guy to do it."

Wahlberg and director Peter Berg unveil Patriots Day in a Boston, New York and
Los Angeles Wednesday (before a national release Jan. 13) casting light on the
finish-line bombings by home-grown radicalized  brothers Tamerlan and Dzhokhar
Tsarnaev.

But, just as important, it focuses on the real-life heroes who emerged from the
events, from injured spectators such as newlyweds Jessica and Patrick Downes
(played by Rachel Brosnahan and Christopher O'Shea) to the federal, state and
local authorities who coordinated  the 105-hour manhunt for Dzhokhar (Tamerlan
was killed  in a police shootout).

Wahlberg, who plays Sgt. Tommy Saunders, based on three police officers, is
quick with self-effacing jokes during an interview at Los Angeles' Four Seasons
Hotel. He can laugh at the record-long hair he sports shooting the new
Transformers movie. ("I stare at women now and think, 'How do you do it?'")

But he grows dead serious when discussing arriving in Boston the day after the
bombing.

"I had never seen the city like that, pretty much deserted," he says. "It was
just such an eerie feeling."

Wahlberg wanted to be the one to show his city coming to life with the slogan
"Boston Strong."

"It was the enormous pride I felt in seeing how people responded in the face of
this tragedy. And those are my people. I wanted to show the world who they are
and what 'Boston Strong' really means."

Berg, who has tackled true-life bravery with Wahlberg in Lone Survivor and
Deepwater Horizon, says his star producer showed "a whole other gear" in his
hometown. Wahlberg used his local pull to dial up David Ortiz for a cameo
honoring the Red Sox star's famed inspirational Fenway Park speech.

He believes the undefeatable attitude heard in Ortiz's word and the film carries
meaning for a whole nation in troubled times.

"This is not just about Boston, it's about all of us. Bad things will  continue
to happen. But good people will always come together and fight for what's right.
And love will always win. I want everyone to hear that message."

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Dan MacMedan, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             441 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Clinton campaign chief: Did Trump, Russians collude?;
Podesta wants answers to many ques- tions before electors confirm election
results

BYLINE: Richard Wolf, @richardjwolf, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 523 words


Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign chairman said Sunday that
President-elect Donald Trump's campaign may have colluded with the Russian
government over hacked e-mails in an effort to swing the election.

"It's very much unknown whether there was collusion," John Podesta said on NBC's
Meet the Press.

Without pointing a finger directly at Trump, Podesta said any ties between the
Russian hacking and the president-elect's campaign should be revealed to members
of the Electoral College before they confirm the election results Monday.

"What did 'Trump Inc.' know, and when did they know it?" Podesta said. "Were
they in touch with the Russians? I think those are still open questions, and the
electors have a right to know what the answers are -- if the United States
government has those answers -- before the election."

While many pundits have said the Russians wanted to discredit the U.S. election
process but did not necessarily aim to elect Trump, Podesta cited examples of
direct contacts: Russian diplomats' statements that they were speaking to the
Trump campaign; Trump adviser Roger Stone's comments in August that Wikileaks
had Podesta's e-mails before they were released; and meetings in Russia before
the Republican National Convention between a Trump foreign policy adviser and
Russian intelligence officials.

All point to the need for an independent investigation, Podesta said --
something incoming Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., and Sen. John
McCain, R-Ariz., endorsed Sunday.

Schumer said the special panel should focus on Russia, "but also China and Iran,
and their hacking our political system as well as our economic infrastructure
and social system."

And on CNN's State of the Union, McCain said "the Russians and others, Chinese
to a lesser degree, have been able to interfere with our electoral process. ...
This is serious business. If they are able to harm the electoral process, then
they destroy democracy, which is based on free and fair elections."

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., has rejected the idea of a new
bipartisan panel in favor of a probe by the existing Senate Committee on
Intelligence. But Schumer and McCain, along with GOP Sen. Lindsey Graham and
Democratic Sen. Jack Reed, said only a special committee can gather all the
evidence because of existing committees' separate jurisdictions.

On Fox News Sunday, incoming White House chief of staff Reince Priebus said even
if there eventually is proof of Russian hacking, it's "insane" to think the
Trump campaign coordinated it.

"Of course we didn't interface with the Russians. I mean, this whole thing is a
spin job," Priebus said. Furthermore, he said, "there's no evidence that shows
that the outcome of the election was changed because of a couple of dozen John
Podesta e-mails."

Donna Brazile, interim Democratic National Committee chairwoman, said on ABC's
This Week that Trump's win had more to do with his cracking the "blue wall" of
Democratic strongholds in the Midwest, from Pennsylvania to Wisconsin. Still,
she said, "Donald Trump used this information in ways to also sow division."

Contributing: David Jackson

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             442 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Trump team slams critics for electoral 'spin job';
On eve of Electoral College vote, aides say groups trying to undermine democracy

BYLINE: David M. Jackson, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 477 words


Aides to President-elect Donald Trump accused their critics Sunday of trying to
use the upcoming Electoral College vote as part of an effort to delegitimize the
president-elect's victory.

"The whole thing is a spin job," incoming White House Chief of Staff Reince
Priebus told Fox News Sunday. "And I think what the Democrats ought to do is
look in the mirror and face the reality that they lost the election."

Citing attempted recounts in key states as well as efforts to get Trump electors
to vote for someone else, Priebus said anti-Trump political groups are "doing
everything they can to delegitimize the outcome of the election. ... Nothing is
going to change."

Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway, speaking on CBS' Face The Nation, denounced the
"nonsense" surrounding Monday's vote of the Electoral College and said those who
are urging electors to vote against Trump are undermining a democratic election.

Priebus and Conway, like Trump himself,  continued to dispute the conclusion of
some intelligence agencies that Russia interfered in an effort to help Trump
win, a cyberattack project probably approved by President Vladimir Putin.

Different agencies are saying different things about the plot, Priebus said, and
there is no evidence Russian activity changed the results of the election.

Members of the Electoral College and others -- almost all of them Democrats --
are calling for at least a delay of Monday's vote, citing reports that Russia
intervened in the election by hacking the emails of Democratic officials.

A group of electors has requested a classified briefing on the Russia
allegations before the Electoral College vote, though there is no sign there
will be a delay.

"This is about protecting democracy," said Rhode Island Democratic elector Clay
Pell, also speaking on Fox News Sunday.

Pell added, though: "Donald Trump will be re-elected as president tomorrow."

A coalition of outside groups are financing a half-million-dollar ad buy over
the weekend, seeking to pressure GOP electors to vote for someone other than
Trump.

Some are not urging a vote for Clinton but for another Republican such as Ohio
Gov. John Kasich.

An organization called Hamilton Electors said in a statement Sunday it wants
college members "to either vote for an alternative Republican candidate or
abstain from voting" in order to send the vote to the U.S. House of
Representatives, in which Republicans would still control a majority of votes.

Whatever happens, it's hard to imagine Trump losing at this stage.

Thanks to victories in once-Democratic-leaning states like Pennsylvania,
Michigan and Wisconsin, Trump -- while losing the popular vote by more than
2.8million votes -- racked up 306electoral voters, well over the 270 majority
needed to win.

While critics are trying to get electors to change their votes, some states
forbid the practice of "faithless electors."

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             443 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

AFC South race still ugly, crowded;
It's down to wire as Texans, Titans, Colts seek title

BYLINE: Tom Pelissero, tpelissero@usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 620 words


The Indianapolis Colts had just finished a 34-6 stomping of the Minnesota
Vikings on Sunday, and a group of players was huddled around smartphones in the
locker room watching the final minutes of a wild afternoon in the AFC South.

Instead of being tied for first place, the Colts ended the day still one game
back, thanks to comeback wins by the Tennessee Titans and Houston Texans, whose
benching of quarterback Brock Osweiler enhanced the feeling of chaos surrounding
the NFL's most maligned division.

"It don't surprise me," Colts linebacker Erik Walden said of Osweiler's
benching, which came a little over nine months after the Texans signed him to a
four-year contract worth up to $72 million, including $37 million fully
guaranteed. "Give him credit. He beat us twice. He's solid. I'm not going to say
he's great.

"There's a couple guys that kind of keep you up at night -- there's Tom (Brady),
there's Aaron Rodgers, Andrew Luck if I was on the other side, Drew Brees. Those
are the top tier, and then you have the rest of the pack."

Among the quarterbacks for division leaders as of late Sunday afternoon: Brady,
Ben Roethlisberger, Derek Carr, Dak Prescott, Matthew Stafford, Matt Ryan and
Russell Wilson. Each of those names has come up in MVP conversations at some
point this season.

Then you have the AFC South -- a division won a year ago by the Brian Hoyer/Ryan
Mallett/T.J. Yates/Brandon Weeden-led Texans amid an injury-ruined season for
Luck with the Colts. Now Houston is perhaps in line for an even less likely
quarterback to guide a title push.

Tom Savage, who has never started an NFL game and hadn't played since 2014
before he replaced Osweiler after two early interceptions Sunday, completed 23
of 36 passes for 260 yards and helped Houston (8-6) erase a 13-point deficit to
beat the Jacksonville Jaguars 21-20.

Marcus Mariota is very talented and has improved in his second season with the
Titans (8-6). But they have a run-first team built to win without great
productivity from the quarterback, evidenced again in Sunday's 19-17 road upset
of the Kansas City Chiefs. (Mariota did complete three of four passes for 40
yards to set up the Titans' winning field goal.)

Luck put on a show in Minnesota, finishing 21-for-28 passing for 250 yards, two
touchdowns and a 125.6 rating -- numbers that could've been higher against a
usually solid Vikings defense had the home team shown up instead of falling into
a 27-0 hole by halftime.

But the Colts (7-7) lost control of their fate with Week 14's home loss to
Osweiler and the Texans, who swept the season series. Indianapolis now must pull
another big upset next weekend at the Oakland Raiders, win the regular-season
finale against the Jaguars and hope for help. The Titans visit Jacksonville, and
the Texans host the Cincinnati Bengals before the co-leaders meet in Week 17 at
Tennessee.

"I put it on us," said Colts veteran running back Frank Gore, who ran 26 times
for 101 yards against the Vikings. "I know I can't say it, because we lost to
some teams in the AFC South, but I believe we've probably got the best team."

The Colts definitely have the best quarterback. And the fact they're not running
away with this division is another indictment of the lack of difference-makers
general manager Ryan Grigson has assembled, particularly on defense, to help
Luck over the last five years.

Credit the others for taking advantage, though. The Texans keep finding ways to
win, no matter how ugly, and they benefited from coach Bill O'Brien making a
tough call Sunday. The Titans have a clear identity and have pulled off the two
biggest wins of the nascent Jon Robinson/Mike Mularkey era in consecutive weeks
after upsets of the Denver Broncos and the Chiefs.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Bruce Kluckhohn, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             444 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

Big givers among top Trump picks;
Despite president-elect's pledge not to be beholden to wealthy donors, many will
have major roles

BYLINE: Fredreka Schouten, and Christopher Schnaars, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 911 words


Individuals tapped to serve on President-elect Donald Trump's transition team,
inaugural committee and in his Cabinet donated more than $35.7million during the
2016 election to help install him in the White House, a USA TODAY analysis
shows.

Casino magnate Sheldon Adelson and his physician wife, Miriam Adelson, now part
of the group raising money to underwrite the inauguration, gave more than $20
million to pro-Trump committees, according to the tally of Federal Election
Commission reports. Wrestling franchise co-founder Linda McMahon, Trump's pick
to head the Small Business Administration, contributed more than $7million.

All three were among donors to Future 45, a pro-Trump super PAC tied to the
Ricketts family, the founders and heirs to the TD Ameritrade fortune. Family
patriarch J. Joe Ricketts donated $1 million to the group in September.

Trump recently picked Ricketts' businessman son Todd Ricketts, a guiding force
in the family's political operations, to serve as deputy Commerce secretary
under billionaire investor Wilbur Ross, who has been tapped to lead the agency.

Ross himself donated $200,000 to a joint fundraising committee Trump established
with the Republican National Committee (RNC). Another Cabinet pick, hedge fund
CEO Steven Mnuchin, whom Trump has tapped to serve as Treasury secretary, served
as national finance chairman for Trump's campaign. Mnuchin also donated $425,000
to Trump Victory, a joint Trump-RNC fundraising committee.

Trump campaigned for the presidency as an outsider who was not beholden to rich
donors and would "drain the swamp" in Washington of special-interest influence.
But some of his wealthy supporters are playing key roles as he works to fill his
administration, make policy decisions and assemble the millions of dollars in
private money needed to fund his Jan. 20 swearing-in.

"It used to be that financial supporters would buy themselves an
ambassadorship," said Fred Wertheimer, president of Democracy 21, a Washington
watchdog group. "Now, they have graduated to buying themselves Cabinet secretary
positions."

Trump aides say he's picking successful individuals who support his policies.
"President-elect Trump is hiring the best and brightest to help move our country
forward by creating jobs, growing the economy and putting America First for the
American people," transition officials said in an emailed statement. "The team
he is assembling will deliver on the promise to Make America Great Again."

Trump himself has defended the millionaires and billionaires joining his team.
"I want people that made a fortune," he said recently, touting their negotiating
skills.

USA TODAY reviewed donations to super PACs supporting Trump's bid and to the
joint fundraising committees he established with the Republican National
Committee to take donations as large as $449,400. Super PACs, meanwhile, can
raise unlimited amounts. The $35.7 million total does not include money donated
by relatives of Trump's picks.

The analysis shows donors sprinkled throughout key posts. Five of Trump's picks
for Cabinet-level jobs have donated to joint fundraising committees or super
PACs to advance his candidacy.

In addition to McMahon, Mnuchin and Ross, fast-food CEO Andrew Puzder, tapped to
serve as Labor secretary, was among the donors appointed to Cabinet posts. He
give $85,000 to committees backing Trump and raised money for the campaign.

The campaign committee of Ben Carson, a former Trump political rival whom the
incoming president picked to oversee the Department of Housing and Urban
Development, transferred $100,000 to a pro-Trump super PAC in the days before
the Nov. 8 election, recently filed Federal Election Commission reports show.

Another Cabinet pick, Education secretary-designate Betsy DeVos, did not donate
to pro-Trump super PACs or to the joint fundraising committees, but her
relatives contributed $245,000 to Trump Victory.

Other donors serve on Trump transition team's executive committee.

They include billionaire tech investor Peter Thiel, who donated $1.25 million to
pro-Trump efforts. Thiel, one of the few Silicon Valley moguls to back Trump,
helped arrange a high-profile meeting Wednesday between the president-elect and
some of the tech industry's biggest executives.

Rebekah Mercer, who ran a pro-Trump super PAC, also sits on the transition's
executive team. Her father, New York hedge-fund billionaire Robert Mercer,
donated $2 million to the super PAC in July after Trump secured the Republican
nomination.

Some of Trump's financial backers are doing double-duty as they prepare for him
to take office: Hedge-fund CEO Anthony Scaramucci serves both on the
transition's executive team, which is working to devise policy and fill key
jobs, and the inaugural leadership team that aims to collect millions for the
Jan. 20 celebrations.

John Pudner, a Republican campaign-finance activist, said it's natural that
donors who stepped up to support Trump developed relationships with him.

Pudner said he's "not as concerned" about the wealthy contributors entering the
administration, as he is about what happens when top officials leave the
government. He said he hopes Trump will safeguard against former staffers
benefiting from their government jobs.

During the campaign, Trump pledged to impose a five-year ban on former executive
branch officials lobbying their former colleagues in government and a lifetime
ban against ex-senior administration officials lobbying the executive branch.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Evan Vucci, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             445 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Director and star Washington builds powerful 'Fences'

BYLINE: Brian Truitt

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 491 words


Denzel Washington's key to directing Fences is unleashing the full prowess of
his powerhouse cast of thespians -- himself included.

The knockout adaptation (***1/2 out of four; rated PG-13; in theaters Friday in
New York and Los Angeles, expands nationwide Dec. 25) of August Wilson's 1983
play is paced by standout performances from its entire cast, not only Washington
and Oscar contender Viola Davis but also character actor Stephen Henderson and
newcomer Jovan Adepo. It's a Shakespearean family drama set against 1950s
suburban Pittsburgh, with everything orbiting one tragic African-American
patriarch.

Troy Maxson (Washington) is a garbage man with a personality big enough to fill
any room or backyard. He's motormouthed, casually misogynistic  to his wife,
Rose (Davis), and has tales for days. "You got more stories than the Devil's got
sinners," his best friend Jim Bono (Henderson) tells Troy, a one-time baseball
player in the Negro Leagues who never made it to the majors and spent time in
jail for murder.

Washington gives Troy a playful style and an empathetic nature when dealing with
his mentally challenged brother Gabriel (Mykelti Williamson), though even early
on hints at a self-centered darker side. Troy gets promoted to trash-truck
driver -- the first black man at his company to do so -- but as his life starts
to look up, he's harder on those in his family he thinks are disrespecting him.
Most of his ire is aimed at son Cory, a college football prospect, and tension
rises to a violent boil when Troy pulls him off his school team.

Fences smartly doesn't mess with Wilson's great screenplay, which offers a
nuanced look at race relations of the time. Troy makes waves in crossing the
color barrier on the job, yet in many ways keeps his loved ones from reaching
their dreams: He tells Cory that discrimination will keep him from being a
sports star, but there's some jealousy there.

Davis plays the dutiful wife for the first half, but she gets her moment to
shine later, as Rose confronts Troy in an intense scene where the actress
explodes with such raw, rapturous emotion you can't keep your eyes off her. Rose
is never the same and neither is the movie as the aftermath shakes every player
to the core.

Washington filmed Fences as a play rather than a movie -- the production is
mostly limited to the Maxsons' home and yard, where Troy is forever building a
literal as well as metaphorical fence. While not a conventional cinematic
experience, it does create a sense of forced intimacy among its characters that
becomes more combustible as the story progresses.

But with the level of acting talent involved, Fences could have been filmed in
the parking lot of a pet store and still been just as effective. Washington has
put together a troupe that crafts a retro story that's still completely
relatable, no matter one's race, and brilliantly plays a protagonist that finds
the sweetest spot between lovable and loathsome.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo David Lee, Paramount Pictures

DOCUMENT-TYPE: MOVIE REVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             446 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Giles set for anticipated Duke debut;
Injuries have waylaid touted freshman

BYLINE: Nicole Auerbach, @NicoleAuerbach, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 1097 words


The final piece to Duke's national championship-caliber puzzle is ready. And
he'll be put into place perhaps as early as Monday night, when the Blue Devils
play Tennessee State.

Harry Giles, the top-ranked recruit in the 2016 class, is expected to make his
much-anticipated collegiate debut this week as Duke closes out its
non-conference slate with two games before Christmas; the fourth-ranked Blue
Devils (10-1) begin Atlantic Coast Conference play Dec.31.

Giles has shown glimpses of his athleticism and talent -- you could make a
highlight reel based on his pregame warm-up dunks alone -- as he has worked his
way back from arthroscopic surgery Oct.3.

The procedure, which came after two major knee surgeries -- one in the summer of
2013 and the other in November2015 -- makes the 6-10, 240-pound power forward's
return even more intriguing. He knows what is said about big men who are injury
prone. He knows that he could be labeled risky by NBA standards. He knows what's
at stake during what likely will be his only college season.

"Most definitely you hear negative things; it always fills up my tank," Giles
told USA TODAY Sports before the October surgery. "Negativity makes you angry.
You've got to be passionate and angry. You put those two together, it's hard to
be stopped. I'm just ready to go out there and prove it and just show them I'm
here."

The Duke coaching staff has been very cautious about bringing Giles back at the
right time. As associate head coach Jeff Capel put it, "The most important thing
obviously is him and his future." And, by the way, his future includes the NBA
-- which means his college basketball present can easily take a back seat to his
health.

And it has.

Gaining perspective

October's procedure serves as proof of that. According to the school and
coaching staff, it was meant to clean out loose cartilage and scar tissue from
the 2013 surgery on his left knee, to ensure he would return to compete at his
highest level, not because a new injury required a new surgery.

That 2013 surgery -- a much bigger deal -- came after a torn left anterior
cruciate ligament, medial collateral ligament and meniscus while playing in
Uruguay for USA Basketball.

"I was going up to pass the ball -- it was intentional, actually, because
Argentina was a dirty team, and they were kind of known for that in the
tournament," Giles said. "A good team, too, but they had a couple dirty players
on the team. It was a dirty play, and I got hit in the wrong way."

At the time, Giles didn't know exactly how it felt to tear an ACL. He knew he
was in pain and his knee didn't feel right. But he didn't get the diagnosis
until he returned home and had an MRI.

The news crushed him at first; he said he handled the news like any 15-year-old
kid would. But a text message he received a couple of days later would put the
basketball injury into perspective -- and redefine "crushed."

Giles was visiting his mother at work when his phone started lighting up with
text messages. Friends were telling him his friend, Celeste Burgess, had been in
a bad car accident in southeast Alabama. Follow-up texts confirmed that she had
died. Giles couldn't believe it; "Man, shut up," was all he could muster as a
response. And then he sat in silence, willing the words to be wrong.

She was younger than Giles but she also had been everywhere he was, playing
basketball or simply bugging him. A little sister, just not by blood. And now
she was gone, at  14.

"When I first came back from my injury, early on I was still thinking about
myself," Giles said. "I was still down. But talking to people, it was like, 'You
get the chance to play again, and she doesn't.' Really, that was it right there.
I get to play again. I told myself I was going to honor her."

He did, when he finally returned to the hardwood after missing his sophomore
season. Giles wore a warm-up jersey with a No.1 and her name on it. He played
hard, for her.

'Life is a roller coaster'

Giles avoided the injury bug that year, his junior year, at Wesleyan Christian
in High Point, N.C., and averaged a double-double to help his team to a 30-5
record. He followed that with a stellar summer on the AAU circuit and saw his
name climb atop all the major recruiting rankings. He transferred to Oak Hill
Academy in Mouth of Wilson, Va., for his senior season.

"Life is a roller coaster," Giles said. "You have your ups and your downs. I had
my downs, and I had my up moment in the summertime after my junior year. It was
something I worked for. Back when I was hurt, people said, 'You work hard, and
your time's going to come. You've just got to stay down and grind, and when it's
time to shine, it's going to happen.' It really didn't make that much sense to
me until I got older and I really saw it happen."

And then the roller coaster crashed. During the fourth or fifth play of Oak
Hill's season opener, Giles planted his foot and attempted to bump his opponent
so he could get back to the middle of the paint to dunk -- "a move I always do,"
he said -- but got hit by a few other players in the process.

Though at first he tried to go back into the game, he quickly thought better of
it. It turned out to be a partial ACL tear in his right knee. His senior season
was over before it even really began.

"Even now it's been hard to just put a seal on it," Giles said. "You say, 'I'm
going to put that in the past.' But when I think about it now, it still hurts.
This will always hurt."

Since last winter, there have been questions about Giles' progress and health,
his timeline and others' sky-high expectations. Now that the moment of truth has
arrived, so will answers for fans and NBA front office personnel.

"One of the biggest obstacles of overcoming injuries, especially an injury like
he has, is the mental aspect of it," Capel said. "For him, it's been twice.
Hopefully one of the things that helps him, and I think it will, is the fact
that he overcame the first one, which was far worse than the second injury.

"I know he heard the doubts then. He heard them. He and I talked about that, and
he heard the things that people were saying, and it was frustrating for him,
because he knew he wasn't himself (when he first came back from the first knee
injury). He knew he wasn't that. He used it as motivation."

Giles agrees and also hopes that his prior successful return bodes well for this
one -- though the stakes are certainly higher. He joins an ultratalented
freshman class that is part of an ultratalented Duke team that has its eyes set
on a national championship.

He could be just what the Blue Devils need to get there.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Rob Kinnan, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             447 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 19, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

CAUGHT IN THE ACT

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 176 words


Bryan Cranston playfully covers up the face of James Franco at Saturday's Los
Angeles premiere of 'Why Him?'  Franco plays the ridiculous boyfriend of
Cranston's daughter in the comedy.

STYLE STAR

Scarlett Johansson and husband Romain Dauriac looked chic at the weekend grand
opening of their shop, Yummy Pop, which opened in Paris' Theatre du Gymnase.
Johansson said in a statement earlier this year that she hopes the store, which
had a soft opening in October, will "become a Parisian snacking staple and a
symbol of friendship between my two most beloved cities, Paris and New York."

IT'S YOUR BIRTHDAY WHO'S CELEBRATING TODAY

Criss Angel is 49. Alyssa Milano is 44. Jake Gyllenhaal is 36.

ROYALS REPORT

THE PROUD SON

As the year of Queen Elizabeth II's 90th birthday comes to an end, Clarence
House released a photo taken in the spring of her and Prince Charles  in the
White Drawing Room at Windsor Castle. The image, which shows Charles admiring
his stoic, regal mother, is being shared to mark the end of birthday
celebrations.

Compiled by Carly Mallenbaum

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Nick Knight, AP

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LIFELINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             448 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

In Jamaica, stay on the water, or stay ON the water;
Coveted private bungalows a first for the Caribbean

BYLINE: Ellen Creager, Detroit Free Press

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 781 words


I totally admit this is a first world problem. But for the life of me, I can't
remember what my private butler said about how to turn on the underwater lights
so I can see through the window on my bedroom floor.

The headaches! The difficulty of being the first guest in this entrancing villa!
I think I need a soak in my private infinity pool or a rest on the overwater
hammock to calm down.

Suddenly, a breakthrough. I push a small button labeled "ripples" on the wall.
And although it is night, I now see the clear Caribbean sea beneath my feet and
tiny fish swimming by.

For decades, tourists have flown all the way to the South Pacific to find them:
small thatched-roof bungalows on stilts strung out like a pearl necklace through
quiet, shimmering turquoise lagoons and atolls, creating romance just by their
existence.

Meanwhile, it has been nearly impossible to build similar bungalows in the
Caribbean. Why? Tides, hurricanes, rough water and environmental regulations are
impediments. You need a quiet location to make it work. Which is why the Sandals
Royal Caribbean in Montego Bay, Jamaica, is the perfect test case.

It has a natural breakwater some way out from shore, so the water near the
resort is a big lagoon. The brilliant aqua water is only 2 to 5 feet deep under
the bungalows here. Tides still pull and push, but they are not strong.

So now, Sandals has unveiled five spacious overwater villa bungalows, which link
by walkway to its private island. You get there by a five-minute private
water-taxi ride from the main resort. You are served snacks and meals by your
private butler on your private deck, after which you have many opportunities for
private romance. The bungalows opened Dec. 2.

Also going up are 12 smaller overwater bungalows that will open in February.

Does it sound intriguing? Get in line. Most of the bungalows are sold out
through mid-2018. The five biggest start at $1,435 per person, per night (based
on double occupancy). The 12 smaller bungalows are $1,263 per person.

The high-end cost does not seem to be hurting bookings, says Sandals spokeswoman
Sarah Royal. And if the bungalows work here, "This is definitely a direction we
are looking to take in other places."

One of the first to test out the new villas was Gerard Christ, the resort's
general manager. He knows all about the sturdy steel and concrete pilings that
were required in Jamaica (no wooden stilts here). He knows the environmental
hoops that Sandals had to clear, the ups and downs of construction, the costs,
the pros and cons. But the night he stayed, the super moon was out, illuminating
the skies. He felt as awed as any guest: "I hardly slept," he says. He was so
excited that he rose before dawn to watch the herons and cranes grazing just
beyond his deck.

The night I stayed I, too, found it hard to sleep. It was not because the
king-size bed was uncomfortable, but because I was afraid I was going to miss
something. Why sleep through your time at one of the most beautiful hotel rooms
in the world? I got up at dawn, too.

While the overwater bungalows are beyond the reach of some travelers'
pocketbooks, Montego Bay beckons to visitors of all economic levels, says Janice
Allen, who represents the Jamaican Tourist Board.

Still, this is a moment of glory for Jamaica -- first in the Caribbean to make
the dream of overwater bungalows come true.

If you go

Montego Bay is served by several major airlines. The Sandals Royal Caribbean
resort is 10 minutes from the airport. To find out more about the resort's new
overwater bungalows see www.sandals.com

/main/royal/rj-over-the-water-suites/, or call 888-726-3257.

Overwater competition

Nearly all 125 overwater bungalow resorts in the world are in the South Pacific
or in the Maldives, which are resort islands south of India and Sri Lanka,
according

to Roger Wade, editor of OverwaterBungalows.net.

Whoever can create similar romantic lodgings successfully in the Caribbean,
Mexico and Central America is likely sitting on a gold mine -- provided that
construction is based on science and engineering, not flimsy dreams that will
collapse in a storm. Here are three competing projects:

ARUBA: Zöetry Isla Di Oro Aruba Wellness & Spa  Resort plans 126 overwater
bungalow suites, scheduled to open in 2018.

PANAMA: Viceroy Bocas del Toro Panama will feature 42 overwater bungalows when
it opens in 2019.

MEXICO: Karisma El Dorado Maroma resort near Playa del Carmen, Mexico, just
opened 30 new Palafitos overwater bungalows Sept. 1, the first in Mexico. Prices
start at $695 per person and up, depending on the season (www.karisma

hotels.com/palafitos/

index.html, only bookable through Karisma "Gourmet Inclusive Vacation
Consultants.")

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             449 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Happy Birthday! Oldest American turns 114

BYLINE: Jay Levin, The (Bergen County, N.J.) Record

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 340 words


Lifelong New Jerseyan Adele Dunlap, who assumed the title of oldest American
five months ago, marked her 114th birthday Monday with a balloon bouquet and a
"Happy Birthday" serenade from fellow residents of the Hunterdon County care
center where she has lived since age 99.

But Dunlap made clear through her facial expressions and her answers to
questions that she didn't appreciate the fuss. Asked what she was thankful for,
Dunlap said, "Gee, how should I know?" And asked what her birthday wish was, she
responded, "I've never thought of such a thing. I don't wish for anything."

She also declared that it was her 105th birthday. It's her habit to shave about
a decade off her age, according to nursing home staff and her family.

Dunlap was born in Newark on Dec. 12, 1902. Her birth date has been validated by
the Gerontology Research Group, which tracks "supercentenarians," or people
older than 110. Among the documents attesting to her astonishing age is her
diploma from South Side High School in Newark. It is dated June 27, 1921 --
951/2 years ago.

There are believed to be several hundred supercentenarians in the world. In
addition to being the oldest American, Dunlap is the world's ninth-oldest
person. The oldest, according to the Gerontology Research Group database, is an
Italian woman, Emma Morano-Martinuzzi, who marked her 117th birthday on Nov. 29.
The next-oldest American is Meta Dishman of Virginia. She turned 113 on June 1.
Of the world's 46 oldest people in the Gerontology Research Group's database, 44
are women.

Dunlap moved up to oldest American when Goldie Michelson of Worcester, Mass.,
died on July 8, one month shy of her 114th birthday. She said at the time that
being the oldest American didn't make her feel any different.

The former Adele Henderson taught school briefly in Kearny and raised her three
children in Short Hills. Her husband, Earl Dunlap Sr., who worked in insurance,
died in 1963. Before moving to Country Arch, she lived in Clinton with her son
Earl Jr., now 86, and daughter-in-law Barbara.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             450 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Genesis aims to become major luxury car player

BYLINE: Chris Woodyard, @ChrisWoodyard, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 316 words


Other luxury brands had years to plan the spinoff of their luxury brands.
Hyundai did it in nine months.

It's fallen to a veteran auto executive Erwin Raphael to try to create a
separate identity around the brand called Genesis. That has meant trying to get
the word out and educate the dealer network about what it's going to take to
please luxury customers.

Whether it's building the brand or the quality of the cars themselves, "it's all
about the details," says Raphael, Genesis' general manager in the U.S.

Fortunately, he's starting off with two models that have already gained good
reputations under the former names as Genesis models. Now those two cars, the
midsize G80, formerly the Hyundai Genesis, and the full-size G90, successor to
the Hyundai Equus, will anchor Genesis as stand-alone nameplate.

There will be about 350 Genesis dealers to start nationwide, but Raphael says
the plan is that most buyers will seldom need to visit them. He says his goal is
to take care of many service needs without a trip  to the dealer. "We'll come to
you wherever you are," Raphael says, "and bring a loaner car as good as what you
have."

Under Hyundai's past CEO, John Krafcik, Hyundai dabbled in trying to build the
home- or office-service experience. Raphael thinks he can double the
participation rate to about 80%.

To get there, Raphael says he has created a Genesis Institute, in which 1,813
managers from dealerships undergo three days of training to learn every aspect
of the brand -- from how to treat customers to detailed knowledge on the cars.
Raphael, for instance, says they will be driving cars from Genesis' biggest
competitors.

"It's always a long-haul process when you're starting a new vehicle brand," says
Karl Brauer, executive publisher of Kelley Blue Book.

Toyota with its Lexus brand took a decade from the start of its brand before it
could challenge the German luxury stalwarts.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             451 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Lucid Air is $160,000 private jet on wheels

BYLINE: Marco della Cava, @marcodellacava, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 651 words


Inside a nondescript warehouse, Lucid Motors pulled the wraps off what could
either be a new force in luxury high-tech cars or another asterisk in the
competitive world of automotive sales.

Dubbed the Lucid Air, the all-electric, technology-packed sedan will top out at
$160,000 and in that incarnation aims to be "a private jet on four wheels,"
Lucid chief technology officer Peter Rawlinson told assembled reporters.

Deposits for Lucid Air are being taken now, $2,500 for an edition that will be
priced starting at around $100,000 and $25,500 for the $160,000 Launch Edition
whose independent dual rear seats almost fully recline in the manner of
first-class airplane seating, a possible boon to the chauffer-driven Asian
market.

Eventually, the company expects to offer a version at $65,000.

Other bragging rights of the Lucid Air include twin electric motors front and
rear that combine to produce a staggering 1,000 horsepower; a wide array of
Lidar, radar and cameras to enable autonomous driving; and a range of 300 miles
that can be increased to 400 as an option.

Executives with Lucid Motors, which numbers roughly 300 employees based in the
Silicon Valley town of Menlo Park, said that the company would be rolling out
company stores to sell its vehicles, an echo of Tesla's showrooms. Those stores
should begin opening in late 2017. In Fremont, the town outside San Jose where
Tesla builds its electric cars, Lucid is constructing alpha and beta prototypes.

The effort is reminiscent of another high-flier, the Fisker Karma, a
stealth-like hybrid-powered sedan that went from red hot to stone cold in just
about a year.

Lucid has an initial production target of 10,000 vehicles, eventually ramping up
to 60,000 "in three or four years," says head of marketing Zak Edson.

The Lucid Air's gee-whiz technology and looks aside, the biggest question facing
a new automaker is whether it can make enough money while acquiring scale.

Tesla has famously struggled to make a profit despite the popularity of its
Model S and X sedans, which often price out at $100,000.

Tesla builds around 50,000 cars a year, and hopes to achieve profitability by
boosting production tenfold with its entry level Model 3.

Edson said that the company is optimistic about achieving profitability early
on.

"We have a strong cost model for our car, which includes our battery supplier
Samsung as well as some of our parts coming from (the Mexican state of) Sonora,"
Edson says. "In the end though, we're not going out there to compete with Tesla,
but rather to compete with all the top luxury automakers, like Audi and
Mercedes-Benz. We think there's room for all of us."

In fact, Lucid execs used three Mercedes-Benz models to help define the Lucid
Air, noting that it would feature the exterior size of a Mercedes E-Class, the
interior space of a large S-Class, and the  appeal of the sleek CLS.

Lucid recently announced it would built its vehicles at a $700 million facility
in Casa Grande, Ariz.

Founded in 2007 under the name Atieva, Lucid has raised $131 million with
participation from China Environmental fund, Japanese investment firm Jafco Life
Science and Silicon Valley VC Venrock, according to Crunchbase.

In contrast, Tesla is a $32 billion public company whose CEO, Elon Musk, hopes
to transform into a purveyor of solar panels, electricity storage units and
electric vehicles.

Lucid CTO Rawlinson was chief engineer for the Tesla Model S, while vice
president of design Derek Jenkins  spent time at Audi, Volkswagen and Mazda.

"Lucid will be a new kind of luxury experience," Jenkins said. "A growing
community of tech-savvy consumers is hungry for a car like this."

The Lucid team played up its California roots in its  presentation,  while
extolling the virtues of West Coast innovation.

"The clarity of our vision is reflected in our name," Rawlinson said. "We're
every bit a Silicon Valley tech company as we are a car company."

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Marco della Cava, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             452 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Hyundai gains luxury foothold with G90

BYLINE: Chris Woodyard, @ChrisWoodyard, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 590 words


You can't drive the new Genesis G90 without reminding yourself how far this
brand has come.

The first time we got behind the wheel of what was then the new Hyundai Genesis
was 2009. At the time, the notion of a luxury car from South Korea's largest
automaker seemed far-fetched.

Even worse. The notion that buyers would shell out more than $40,000 for a
Hyundai seemed absurd. The automaker had not yet overcome a lingering (and
undeserved) reputation for poor quality and only the first inklings of a styling
renaissance were showing up. Yet we were oh-so-wrong. That Genesis, a true
luxury car without the snob appeal, was kind of a breakthrough that made the
auto industry take notice of Hyundai.

Now, less than a decade later, Hyundai has taken another leap to be competitive
in the big leagues.

Genesis has been spun off from Hyundai and is a standalone brand. The cars will
still sell for less than a Mercedes-Benz or BMW, but the gap will narrow
because, over time, the bet is that the Genesis logo will come to be seen as
just as prestigious.

Which bring us to the G90. This is the brand's new flagship sedan, a chance to
show off the best that it can be. And there is plenty to admire.

For starters, it's a big car. The G90 comes in at 17 feet in overall length with
a wheelbase alone has been stretched 4.5 inches compared to the Hyundai's last
full-size luxury sedan, the Equus. One reason is that this is one of those
luxury sedans, like Lexus' LS, that feels as though it's designed around the
back seat.

There's ample space in back for executives who want to be chauffeur-driven. A
nifty pull-down armrest lets honored rear-seat guests control the entertainment
and climate-control systems. Not quite the customized massage unit in the LS,
but still  sophisticated.

With an analog clock on the dash and all the comfort, a car like the G90 risks
being seen as stodgy. But in this case, it actually feels quite modern.

Genesis sweated the details. The center infotainment screen is large and  has
sharp detail. All the buttons and dials  are surfaced in a way that makes them a
delight to touch. Then there's the quiet. The car was given touches like
triple-sealed windows to shut out noise. When you gently close the rear doors,
they sort of suck themselves to the closed position.

The quietness of the cabin is profound enough that you have to strain to hear
the car going through the gears of its eight-speed automatic transmission.

Likewise, the engine options are just as slick. The base is the new
twin-turbocharged Lambda V-6, good for 365 horsepower. We've always liked the
Tau V-8, which produces 420 silky horses.

At $68,100 plus $950 in delivery charges, the Genesis price is a bargain
compared to a BMW 7 Series sedan at $81,500 or Mercedes-Benz S Class at $96,600.

All-in-all, this sedan sets  the right standard for the level of luxury and
detail that Genesis is going to need to to go up against the best in the
industry. Indeed,  it has come a long way in short time.

WHAT STANDS OUT

Luxury details: Love the texturing on the buttons and controls

Quiet: Triple sealed windows.

Rear seat: The place to be.

2017 GENESIS G90

What? A luxury sedan

When? On sale now

Where? Made in South Korea.

How big? 17 feet long

What makes it go? A 3.3-liter twin-turbo V-6 that puts out 365 horsepower or a
5-liter V-8 with 420 horsepower.

How thirsty? For the V-6, 17 miles per gallon in the city, 24 mpg highway and 20
combined. For the V-8, 16 mpg in the city, 24 mpg on the highway and 19 overall.

Overall? A cost-competitive choice for luxury car buyers

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             453 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

'Rogue One' hero Diego Luna grew up on 'Star Wars' heroes;
Now it's his kids' turn, but daughter Fiona is firmly on Team Jyn

BYLINE: Brian Truitt, @briantruitt, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 493 words


Before Diego Luna was in fact a Star Wars fan, he yearned to be one as a
6-year-old growing up in Mexico City around relatives who adored the adventures
of Luke Skywalker and Han Solo -- heroic annals in which Luna himself is now
entrenched.

"I remember wanting to like (Star Wars) and wanting to be part of the world of
my grown-up cousins. I watched it, I became part of that clan and since then
I've been a huge fan," says Luna, 36, who stars as Rebel Alliance intelligence
officer Capt. Cassian Andor in the standalone film Rogue One: A Star Wars Story.

The movie (in theaters now) takes place just before the original trilogy of
films from Luna's youth. Cassian is tasked with leading a group that risks Rebel
lives to steal secret plans for the Empire's Death Star, a mega-weapon that
threatens entire planets, though he's initially suspicious of new recruit Jyn
Erso (Felicity Jones).

However, Cassian is in the intergalactic spy game, where distrust is usually
part of the gig. The character is cold-blooded when it comes to informants, has
done some questionable things for the good guys, but it's all in order to bring
freedom and change for the cause.

"It's not the James Bond approach, where you know he's having fun and getting
the girl and the martinis. No, this guy hates his job," Luna says. "He would
love to not be doing this and when we find him in this film, it starts to be a
little painful. But he's (emotionally) wounded and he'll do anything."

Luna helped develop the character's personality and back story with Rogue One
director Gareth Edwards, and the filmmaker admired the vulnerability that Luna
brought to Cassian. "It's more relatable when you can see the humanity," Edwards
says. "True strength is when, despite the fact that you want to stop and you
fear you might not win, you keep going."

Luna had his big cinematic break in the Oscar-nominated 2001 Mexican drama Y Tu
Mamá También, starring alongside childhood friend Gael García Bernal. The actor
has three upcoming big-screen projects -- the dystopian cannibal thriller The
Bad Batch, the animated Ferdinand and a Flatliners sequel -- and while he's the
one usually begging audiences to go see his movies, it's the opposite with the
high-profile Rogue One.

"It is amazing but I don't want to get used to this, because this just happens
when your title says Star Wars," Luna says. "I might now call all my films Star
Wars something."

Luna acknowledges getting "the chills" when watching the other saga films with
his two children. The actor received a box of Rogue One toys and he gave a
Cassian action figure to his 8-year-old son, Jerónimo. He then went to hand one
to his 6-year-old daughter, Fiona, but she grabbed a Jyn and yelled, "This is
mine!"

"I was like, 'You don't want Daddy?' 'No, no, no. OK, yes, Dad, give it to me.'
And she put in the corner of her room and Jyn became her toy," Luna recalls with
a wide grin. "It's exciting to be able to share my job with them."

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Robert Deutsch, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             454 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

At last, meet the elusive 'Man in the High Castle';
Amazon series returns with new reveals, old moral complexities

BYLINE: Jayme Deerwester, @jaymedeerwester, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 468 words


Viewers can  finally meet The Man in the High Castle.

In the second season of the Amazon drama, streaming Friday, veteran character
actor Stephen Root (Office Space) plays the previously unseen title role in the
series, which imagines  an alternate history in which the Axis powers won World
War II. (They occupied and divided America into  Japanese- and Nazi-controlled
regions.)

"This is a person who's been talked about by the Nazis, by the Japanese and by
the Resistance, and none of them know too much about him," Root says.  "The
Nazis are afraid of him because they believe he has something that will start
more of a revolution in America than is already happening."

Root's mysterious man  (named Absenden) is a figurehead of the Resistance
movement who was often spoken of as protagonist Juliana Crain (Alexa Davalos)
risked her life to smuggle a film to him that depicts the Allies winning the
war.

Juliana, who hails from the Japanese-controlled Pacific States and whose sister
was killed for her role in the Resistance, "has been seeking answers this entire
time," Davalos says. "She winds up in his presence, and it's almost a religious
experience for her."

Juliana is now a wanted woman, after allowing  covert American Nazi agent Joe
Blake (Luke Kleintank) to escape the country with the film last season.

"She basically has to beg for asylum in the Reich," Davalos says. "She has
absolutely nowhere to go."

That makes it likely she'll cross paths with Joe's boss, Obergruppenführer John
Smith (Rufus Sewell), the show's top American Nazi, who's hiding a secret she
could exploit: his eldest son's neurological disorder,  a  violation of the
party's eugenics policy.

That provides extra motivation to find the Man: "His only chance of keeping his
son alive is maintaining the highest office he can," Sewell says. "Even in terms
of being the best soldier he can for Adolf Hitler, the reason he's doing it is
to protect his son. It's a terrible moral compromise."

Meanwhile, Smith's  protégé Joe travels to the Fatherland for his first meeting
with his dad,  a high-ranking party official who has heard about his successful
mission.

"A part of him wanted to prove to his father that he was worthy of doing
something for the Reich," Kleintank says,  "but he didn't realize what it was
going to entail. ... He's in shock from everything he's seen and everything he's
had to do."

Though Castle, a Philip K. Dick novel that inspired the series, was published in
1963, the actors say the story  is as relevant as ever.

"The show is about people's capacity to normalize and to look the other way from
horrors if they're allowed to," Sewell says. "It's a terribly dangerous tendency
that can be exploited. It's always been there to a certain extent, and it's
remarkable that it seems to chime so well at the moment."

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo photos by Liane Hentscher, Amazon

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             455 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

DeVry U. agrees to $100M FTC settlement

BYLINE: Kevin McCoy, @kmccoynyc, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 267 words


DeVry University and its parent company have agreed to a $100 million settlement
of allegations they misled prospective students about job-hiring success rates
and income after graduation, a federal regulator said Thursday.

The Federal Trade Commission settlement tentatively resolves a January lawsuit
that accused for-profit school DeVry of claiming that 90% of graduates were
hired for jobs in their  fields within six months of graduating. Ads making the
claims appeared on TV, radio, online and in other media, the FTC said.

Filed in California federal court in January, the court complaint also alleged
that DeVry misled students by claiming that its graduates with bachelor's
degrees had 15% higher incomes one year after graduation, on average, in
comparison with similar graduates from other colleges and universities.

Under the settlement terms, DeVry will pay $49.4 million in cash that will be
distributed to qualifying students who were harmed by the deceptive ads, the FTC
said. DeVry also will pay $50.6 million in debt relief.

The forgiven debt includes $30.35 million, representing the full balance owed on
all private unpaid student loans DeVry issued to undergraduate students between
September 2008 and September 2015, the FTC said. An additional $20.25 million in
student debts for tuition, books and lab fees is also covered by the forgiveness
provision, the regulator said.

The settlement requires federal court approval. A proposed court order would
require DeVry to notify the students who will benefit from the debt relief, as
well as inform credit bureaus and collection agencies.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo 2009 photo by J. Pat Carter, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             456 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

The 5 'Dream Themes' for stocks in 2017

BYLINE: Matt Krantz@mattkrantzUSA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 784 words


Being in the right place at the right time is a way to win the stock market. But
with rapid changes facing the markets for 2017 from politics to technology,
investors might not be sure where to pick their spots. But that's where the
brainpower and extensive research of the four panelists on USA TODAY's 21st
annual Investment Roundtable can assist. These investment professionals with
decades of collective experience have ferreted through all the themes and trends
that will matter next year. Several themes that could very well bring solid
returns no matter what happens to the broader markets are where these investors
are focused, including:

Secular growth

The term might sound like jargon, granted, but it was the most recurring theme
among the four panelists. Secular growth stocks are those that can grow no
matter what curve balls the general stock market or economy throws at the
market. Playing secular growth, though, is up to interpretation. Jeff
Rottinghaus, portfolio manager of the T. Rowe Price U.S. Large-Cap Core fund
sees secular growth companies as those that sell things so critical that demand
doesn't fall even if the market or economy falters. And for him, health care
stocks are the classic example. Finding secular growth opportunities around the
world, where companies can do well despite the broader economy, will be a
critical aspect of portfolio management next year, says Rupal Bhansali, chief
investment officer of international and global equities at Ariel Investments.
"There are many developments in the world out there ... which actually will
stand the test of time," she says. "You'll decouple your portfolio performance
and make it dependent upon these idiosyncratic things that you know you can bank
upon."

Rise of the technology cloud

Corporate investments in Internet-based shared computing resources -- commonly
called the cloud -- will be an important shift. Companies and people are
increasingly looking to house data on remote servers to help reduce costs and
allow them to access information from anywhere. And the cloud ties into other
key developments for investors such as wireless bandwidth and mobile data.
Mobile devices are often used to access data on the cloud, allowing data to be
available whenever and wherever it's needed. "It's hard to have a meeting in
Silicon Valley right now where there's not some sort of discussion of what's
going on with the cloud," Rottinghaus says. Currently, cloud computing powers
10% of computer workloads. That is going to 95%, says Gavin Baker, portfolio
manager of the Fidelity OTC Fund. "It's better. It's faster. It's cheaper," he
says.

Artificial intelligence

Making computers smarter and able to do more personalized tasks will be a
massive theme that will generate returns as it plays out, Baker says. Investing
in companies building artificial intelligence, or A.I., systems is the biggest
theme in Baker's portfolio, he says. The trend is being powered by the fact
companies have large collections of data that can enable digital decision
making. But the proliferation of smart devices is another key development making
now the time for A.I. A.I. "is a very profound thing for the whole technology
industry," he says.

Trump plays

As President-elect Trump takes office, he and the Republican-controlled Congress
will likely introduce changes that will steer investment decisions. One of
Trump's biggest proposals is less regulation. "Financials are again big
beneficiaries there" from fewer rules especially those connected with how much
capital banks must have, says David Kostin, chief U.S. equity strategist at
Goldman Sachs. Another winning theme will be U.S. companies paying relatively
high tax rates. These companies stand to be more profitable, all things held
equal, for just paying lower taxes. "They're going to go to a lower tax rate,
which means that will free up a lot of cash flow that can be used for a
different purpose," Kostin says.

Connected cars

One theme that pulls together several of the others is the rise of the connected
car. Cloud computing will make vast amounts of entertainment and other data
available in vehicles on the move. Artificial intelligence will kick in with
self-driving vehicles being the most high-profile example. Meanwhile, software
and auto component makers will see such strong demand they could be insulated
from the vagaries of the economy.

The bottom line?

Making money in 2017 will be about profiting from the new currency: Innovation,
be that in the cloud or in the car in ways that fit with the new
administration's rules. "Innovation is nothing but a version of intellectual
property," Bhansali says. "There are ways in which to participate in these
developments."

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Images by Getty Images/iStockphoto

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             457 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Virginia's cost per win: $3.2M;
Western Mich. among most cost effective

BYLINE: Steve Berkowitz, and Christopher Schnaars, @ByBerkowitz and
@chrisschnaars

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 562 words


The University of Virginia paid new football coach Bronco Mendenhall more this
season than his predecessor, Mike London, was scheduled to make last season. It
also paid Mendenhall's nine on-field assistants considerably more than it was
paying London's.

For all that, the Cavaliers ended up with a 2-10 record this season -- two fewer
wins than they had last season -- and the greatest cost per win of any Football
Bowl Subdivision public school, an average of more than $3.2 million.

The figures are based on the amount each school was scheduled to pay its head
coach, on-field assistants and head strength coach, according to USA TODAY
Sports' annual analysis of football coaches' compensation.

London, who resigned late in November 2015, made just under $3.2 million,
including a $750,000 one-time longevity payment for having been on the job
through Jan. 15, 2015. His assistants were making just under $2.5 million,
including $20,000 in signing bonuses.

Mendenhall is making nearly $3.3 million from Virginia this season, including a
$25,000 one-time signing bonus. His assistants are making just more than
$3million, including a combined $80,000 in signing bonuses. (Because USA TODAY
Sports added strength coaches' pay to its survey this year, that amount is not
included in the comparison.)

Rutgers also did not get immediate results from its coaching change. The Scarlet
Knights went from 4-8 last season under Kyle Flood to 2-10 this season under
Chris Ash, who is making about $750,000 more than Flood did -- although Ash's
on-field assistants are making about $250,000 less than Flood's did.

However, Virginia and Rutgers potentially can take solace from Western Michigan.
After firing Bill Cubit following the 2012 season, Western Michigan hired P.J.
Fleck, paid him more than it was paying Cubit and saw the team's record drop
from 4-8 to 1-11.

This season, the Broncos have gone 13-0, with a victory in the Mid-American
Conference championship game and a berth in the Cotton Bowl on Jan. 2.

Western Michigan also ended up as the second-most cost-efficient staff of any
FBS public school at an average of a little less than $165,000 per win.

Idaho (8-4) led the way, paying about $155,000 for each of its wins.

Western Michigan's cost-effectiveness was helped by its domination of a Group of
Five conference and by Fleck's basic pay of about $800,000. Though that's the
greatest of any Mid-American Conference coach (and more than double what Western
Michigan was paying Cubit), it's in the bottom third among all FBS public school
head coaches. On the other hand, the Broncos did win road games against Big Ten
opponents Northwestern and Illinois.

Michigan had the greatest cost per win among schools with at least 10 wins. With
coach Jim Harbaugh getting $9 million this season, including two $2 million
deferred payments rather than what will be his usual one, the Wolverines' 10
wins cost more than $1.35 million apiece. Even if Harbaugh's extra $2 million is
eliminated from the equation, Michigan's average cost per win would be more than
$1.15 million.

Oklahoma, which had the second-greatest cost per win among schools with at least
10 wins, paid about $330,000 less than Michigan did for each of its 10 wins.

Meanwhile, Colorado paid an average of just more than $485,000 for its 10 wins,
the lowest cost per win for a Power Five public school with at least 10wins.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             458 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Triple option lets Davie do more with less;
'Great equalizer' helps New Mexico

BYLINE: Paul Myerberg, @paulmyerberg, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 7C

LENGTH: 884 words


As part of a USO tour in the summer of 2011, Bob Davie and Urban Meyer sat side
by side for a 16-hour flight from Washington, D.C., to Kuwait, killing time in
the way only coaches do: by sketching out X's and O's across multiple legal
pads, piquing the curiosity of flight attendants more accustomed to sleeping
passengers than football schematics.

It was another moment that, in Davie's words, caused "those demons to come back"
-- meaning the urge to return to coaching more than a decade after his
unceremonious dismissal from Notre Dame, which in turn came less than a year
after receiving a five-year contract extension and just months after he and his
wife began construction on a home.

Davie had spent that decade as an analyst for ESPN, collecting tips, hints and
ideas from his various stops across the Football Bowl Subdivision. Three schools
stood out: Air Force, Army and Navy, for how the service academies attempted to
even the playing field despite their inherent disadvantages.

He'd land at New Mexico the winter after the USO tour, taking the reins of a
program mired in one of the worst runs in recent history -- the Lobos had won a
combined three games during the three seasons under his predecessor, Mike
Locksley.

Davie thought he'd return to coaching -- he'd had opportunities, though they
didn't fit -- but he knew that if he did, it would be "at a New Mexico of the
world."

"Whatever conference it would be," Davie said, "I knew it would be at a place
that had to do more with less."

One of the first calls Davie placed after taking the job was to Kansas State's
Bill Snyder, himself no stranger to from-the-bootstraps rebuilding projects.
Davie asked for advice, to which Snyder replied: Let me tell you, that's a tough
job.

Whoa, Davie thought.

"Then we dove into it," Davie said. "I knew this was a very difficult situation.
I didn't really care. I didn't really care what anybody thought or what the
record would be. I just wanted to build something and be competitive.

"I'm pretty realistic. I've seen a lot of things in college football,
particularly during those years at ESPN. I can compare the haves and have-nots.
I know who we are, I know what we are, and I just want to keep building this
thing."

As the Lobos prepare for Saturday's New Mexico Bowl against Texas-San Antonio,
the program's slow yet steady growth into annual bowl participant was born from
Davie's decade off the sidelines: Aware that his next shot would likely come at
a place with limited resources, he had mapped out his blueprint for drawing more
from less, echoing what he'd seen at the academies by leaning on "the great
equalizer" -- the triple-option offense.

"I had decided that I was going to be unique in that we were going to be a
triple-option style program," he said. "I knew that. I knew that five years
before I coached again, that wherever I went that's what we had to do."

Winning games -- and in particular, winning close games -- has come to define
New Mexico football. But since the day of Davie's arrival, the Lobos' identity
has been the triple option, a 20th-century offense revitalized with added
tweaks, adjustments, bells and whistles.

"It's a throwback. It's not necessarily sexy," offensive coordinator Bob DeBesse
said. "But I believe it's absolutely been the best thing for us at New Mexico,
to develop an identity and give us an edge as we try to rebuild this."

It's part triple option, part Wishbone, part Veer -- an offense popularized by
former Houston coach Bill Yeoman in the 1970s -- and part Pistol, the latter a
new entry into college football's offensive lexicon. Combined it's the engine
behind the nation's top-ranked running game and the primary reason for New
Mexico's surge into back-to-back bowl games.

"We're not always the biggest team. We're not always the strongest," senior
quarterback Austin Apodaca said. "But just the way we practice, the way we play,
we're different than a lot of people. That definitely helps us in that we're not
running the exact same thing as anyone."

The Lobos average 360.9 rushing yards per game, far ahead of second-place Navy,
and have the nation's top two per-carry rushers among backs with at least 100
carries in senior Teriyon Gipson and sophomore Tyrone Owens. The offense gained
at least 350 yards on the ground in seven games during the regular season,
highlighted by a 568-yard showing in the finale against Wyoming.

New Mexico has won 12 of its last 17 games in Mountain West Conference play; the
program had won 11 of its previous 60 league games. This year's shared Mountain
Division title represents the Lobos' first hardware of any kind since winning
the Western Athletic Conference, a since-defunct league, in 1997.

It's just as Davie expected -- or as he planned, at least. It's an "outwork,
outhit, outdiscipline identity," he said. "We're going to do things the way they
need to be done, period."

If winning off the grid in college football demands a unique approach, the
Lobos' outline for success, born during Davie's time away from coaching, entails
a deep embrace of this run-first, run-last offense.

"Hey, we're the triple option," senior tight end Cole Gautsche said. "We're
going to go out there and run the ball. We're going to put points on the board,
and we're going to hold possession. We're going to do what we do."

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Noah K. Murray, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             459 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

You don't have to wait long for one great matchup

BYLINE: Eddie Timanus, @eddietimanus, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 7C

LENGTH: 1072 words


And so we come to the top 10.

As you would expect, the list of the 10 most compelling matchups on the 40-bowl
slate is heavy on the New Year's Six. But the top quarter includes an
opening-day gem you won't want to miss as the Football Bowl Subdivision
postseason kicks off Saturday.

10. Sugar Bowl in New Orleans

No. 7 Oklahoma (10-2) vs. No. 17 Auburn (8-4), Jan. 2, 8:30 p.m. ET, ESPN

This is the last one before the national championship game, but it has the
potential to unfold as the least attractive of the majors. Whether this game
turns out to be competitive largely depends on the Tigers, who hope to have
several of their key offensive playmakers healthy by game time. Auburn's defense
will pose a challenge for the Sooners' pair of Heisman Trophy finalists, QB
Baker Mayfield and WR Dede Westbrook, but things could get out of hand quickly
if the Big 12 champs build a lead.

9. Cotton Bowl in Arlington, Texas

No. 8 Wisconsin (10-3) vs. No. 14 Western Michigan (13-0), Jan. 2, 1 p.m. ET,
ESPN

The curiosity factor of how the Group of Five representative fares against a
power-conference opponent will turn to intrigue if the Broncos are able to hang
with the Badgers into the second half -- and they very well might. Wisconsin
isn't an offensive juggernaut, and WMU doesn't often make mistakes that would
give the Badgers a short field. But the Broncos did display uncharacteristic
nervousness in the Mid-American Conference title game, and they'll have to shake
any residual jitters immediately to make the most of this chance.

8. Outback Bowl in Tampa

No. 18 Florida (8-4) vs. No.25 Iowa (8-4), Jan. 2, 1p.m. ET, ABC

If nothing else, this contest should be close throughout because neither offense
is likely to generate sufficient points for a big lead. It would not be
stunning, in fact, to see one of these accomplished defensive units produce a
big play that could shift momentum. And, hey, no matter who wins, there's a free
appetizer.

7. Las Vegas Bowl

San Diego State (10-3) vs. Houston (9-3), Saturday, 3:30p.m. ET, ABC

You'll want to make time to catch this highlight of the bowl season's first full
day. If not for some ill-timed off days resulting in losses, either of these
teams might have been candidates to appear in the New Year's Six lineup. As it
is, the Mountain West champion Aztecs and Donnel Pumphrey (No. 2 nationally in
rushing with 2,018 yards; he needs 108 yards to become the all-time FBS leader)
should stage a terrific back-and-forth battle with the Cougars and feisty QB
Greg Ward Jr.

6. Orange Bowl in Miami Gardens, Fla.

No. 6 Michigan (10-2) vs. No. 10 Florida State (9-3), Dec. 30, 8 p.m. ET, ESPN

Even though this is a much-sought-after bowl destination, it's not the one
either of these teams wanted at the start of the season. Even so, a victory will
mean a top-10 finish. Seminoles freshman QB Deondre Francois appears to have a
bright future, though his line must do a much better job protecting him. In the
meantime he'll look to send backfield mate Dalvin Cook off to the next level
with a win, assuming he chooses to enter the draft. The Wolverines should have
QB Wilton Speight back at full strength, and it will be interesting to see how
many uses Michigan finds for Jabrill Peppers in what might also be his send-off
performance.

5. Alamo Bowl in San Antonio

No. 11 Colorado (10-3) vs. No. 13 Oklahoma State (9-3), Dec. 29, 9 p.m. ET, ESPN

We strongly considered making this one the most appealing pairing outside the
six access bowls. It features teams that were playing for power conference
titles on the final weekend of the regular season. The time off should help
Buffaloes QB Sefo Liufau's bad ankle heal. CU will need him at full speed to
keep up with Mason Rudolph and the Cowboys.

4. Citrus Bowl in Orlando

No. 15 Louisville (9-3) vs. No. 20 LSU (7-4), Dec. 31, 11a.m. ET, ABC

In the end, we went with this one to head the non-New Year's Six clashes. The
main attraction is the Heisman Trophy winner against the stingiest defense he
has encountered this season. Cardinals QB Lamar Jackson will have to pick his
spots to run more carefully against the hard-hitting Tigers, though LSU will
miss the constant presence of LB Kendell Beckwith (knee). It will be a bonus if
Tigers RB Leonard Fournette is able to make a farewell appearance before heading
to the NFL, but he is listed as questionable.

3. Rose Bowl in Pasadena, Calif.

No. 5 Penn State (11-2) vs. No. 9 Southern California (9-3), Jan. 2, 5 p.m. ET,
ESPN

The Granddaddy easily heads the list of non-playoff matchups. You will not find
two hotter Power Five teams entering the bowl season outside of Tuscaloosa. Much
of the Trojans' reversal of fortunes is attributed to the switch to freshman QB
Sam Darnold, but USC's defense also made strides after September. The Nittany
Lions have made second-half comebacks into an art form this season, but their
fans would like to see a strong first series from QB Trace McSorley and RB
Saquon Barkley to ease anxieties.

2. Peach Bowl in Atlanta

No. 1 Alabama (13-0) vs. No.4 Washington (12-1), Dec.31, 3 p.m. ET, ESPN

The apparent inevitability of the Crimson Tide's march to the Southeastern
Conference championship prompts us to put their game second of the Playoff
semifinals. Washington took its fans on a tremendous ride this season all the
way to the Pac-12 title. But it doesn't bode well that in the Huskies' loss --
to Southern California -- they were dominated at the line of scrimmage on both
sides of the ball, and that is where Alabama imposes its will on a weekly basis.
Washington QB Jake Browning must make deep connections early for the Huskies to
have any shot at pulling off an upset.

1. Fiesta Bowl in Glendale, Ariz.

No. 2 Ohio State (11-1) vs. No. 3 Clemson (12-1), Dec. 31, 7 p.m. ET, ESPN

Keeping in mind the overarching "anything can happen" reality that is, after
all, the reason we watch sports, we give this semifinal a higher probability of
holding our interest. The Buckeyes and Tigers survived a few nail-biters to get
here, so a little fourth-quarter drama to close out the calendar year is a
strong possibility. S Malik Hooker and the superb Buckeyes secondary could limit
the big-play opportunities for Clemson QB Deshaun Watson, so the Tigers will
need a big contribution from RB Wayne Gallman. Ohio State's attack works best
when QB J.T. Barrett can find all-purpose back Curtis Samuel in space, but he's
sure to receive added attention from Clemson LB Ben Boulware.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Greg Bartram, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             460 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Emergency trainees exposed to ricin;
Lab mistakenly shipped deadly toxin for use in classes at a first-responder
center in Ala.

BYLINE: Alison Young, @alisonannyoung, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 1070 words


Because of yet another mix-up with bioterror pathogens, a federal terrorism
response training center in Alabama mistakenly exposed more than 9,600
firefighters, paramedics and other students to a deadly toxin over the past five
years.

The Federal Emergency Management Agency's Center for Domestic Preparedness
blames an outside laboratory for a series of shipping errors since 2011 that
resulted in the first-responder training center using in its classes a
potentially lethal form of ricin powder. The poison, made from castor beans, is
capable of killing at small doses.

The training center said it submitted order forms asking for a type of ricin
extract that is unlikely to cause serious harm. Officials from Toxin Technology,
the Florida company that sent nine shipments to the center since 2011, told USA
TODAY that its ricin products were all accurately labeled as "RCA60" -- a
scientific name for the whole ricin toxin, which can be deadly.

It's unclear why training center staff didn't recognize for years that they were
working with a far more dangerous substance. There is no antidote to treat ricin
poisoning.

After issuing repeated statements to USA TODAY since Monday solely blaming the
vendor, FEMA Administrator Craig Fugate called Thursday for the Department of
Homeland Security Office of Inspector General to investigate. The training
center had suspended all training with biological agents.

Former Homeland Security secretary Tom Ridge said he's stunned that over the
past five years, the training center never verified that it was receiving the
less-toxic ricin product it thought it ordered.

"It's beyond careless and outrageous. It's almost malfeasance," Ridge said.

Nobody was sickened by the exposures, FEMA spokeswoman Alexa Lopez said.
Students, who were being trained to detect the presence of biological agents,
wore protective gear during the exercises. Workers at the Anniston, Ala.,
training center prepared ricin training materials in special biosafety cabinets
designed to protect against exposures.

Still, Ridge and other national security experts said the ricin mix-up is the
latest high-profile incident showing lax safety practices at U.S. biodefense
facilities. Hundreds of government, military, private and university
laboratories nationwide possess potential bioterror pathogens, which the
government calls "select agents," such as those that cause anthrax, botulism and
plague. They're used in  research and to create vaccines, treatments and
detection equipment.

In 2014, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention made mistakes with
anthrax specimens that resulted in dozens of the agency's lab workers being
potentially exposed to the deadly bacteria. In 2015, the Pentagon discovered
that an Army lab in Utah had been mistakenly shipping live anthrax -- labeled as
killed -- to dozens of labs in the USA and abroad for more than a decade.

A USA TODAY investigation in 2015 found hundreds of safety incidents at labs
nationwide and a lax and secretive system of oversight of potential bioterror
pathogens that hides serious incidents from the public.

Investigators from the Federal Select Agent Program, which regulates facilities
that work with potential bioterror pathogens, traveled this week to the company
that supplied the ricin to the FEMA training center. The program is jointly run
by the CDC and the U.S. Department of Agriculture.

Neither the CDC nor FEMA would name the vendor that supplied the ricin to the
training facility when asked by The Anniston Star, which first revealed the
incident, nor to USA TODAY. USA TODAY determined through its reporting the
vendor was Toxin Technology in Sarasota, Fla.

Bill Rose, manager of Toxin Technology, said it is company policy not to discuss
its clients. He told USA TODAY the company's records show products were labeled
as "Ricin RCA60."

Information provided to USA TODAY by officials from Toxin Technology and FEMA
conflict in several ways and raise significant questions about how ricin
materials were ordered and shipped over the years.

In its statements, FEMA has repeatedly said the material mix-up was "due to an
error by the supplier," and the "intended use declaration" forms the training
center submitted specified the center sought "Ricin Chain A."

The ricin toxin has two components, referred to as A and B chains. Both need to
be present to cause serious harm.

FEMA officials said their intent was to use the A-chain ricin in its programs
because it was safer and would still react with detection equipment during
training classes as if it were the more dangerous whole ricin toxin.

"In November 2016, while making a purchase of ricin A-chain for training, staff
at FEMA's Center for Domestic Preparedness recognized an ongoing discrepancy in
the documentation related to the type of ricin being provided," FEMA said in a
statement. The agency wouldn't provide any details about the documentation.

The Toxin Technology catalog does not list any A-chain ricin products -- only a
whole ricin product. FEMA told USA TODAY the product it ordered wasn't in the
company's catalog but a specialty product.

Raoul Reiser, who founded Toxin Technology in 1984 and sold it to a partner
about three years ago, told USA TODAY he remembers supplying A-chain ricin
products to the FEMA training facility.

Reiser said that although the A-chain ricin product wasn't in Toxin Technology's
catalog, it was purchased by many customers as far away as Singapore.

He said Toxin Technology would buy A-chain ricin in liquid form from the
biological supply company Vector Labs, then turn it into a powdered form for
resale.

Officials at Vector Laboratories told USA TODAY their records show they never
sold A-chain ricin to Toxin Technology -- only whole ricin toxin.

Reiser said he was surprised to hear this. "I was under the impression we were
buying the A-chain toxin," he said Wednesday night. He said Toxin Technology's
purchasing was handled by Paul Bina.

Bina, who is listed on Toxin Technology's website as vice president and lab
manager, said he was instructed to purchase whole ricin toxin.

"At no time did we ever have Ricin A Chain," Bina said. He said all ricin
produced by Toxin Technology was "correctly identified as 'RCA60' on all
shipping and manufacturing documents."

After USA TODAY asked FEMA to produce documents showing how the ricin products
it received were labeled, the agency called for the inspector general
investigation.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo FEMA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             461 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

'Vastness of his hatred';
Jury finds Dylann Roof guilty in church shootings

BYLINE: Tonya Maxwell, and Tim Smith, The Greenville (S.C.) News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1233 words


A federal jury took a little less than two hours Thursday to find Dylann Roof,
the self-admitted white supremacist who shot to death nine black parishioners at
a Charleston church, guilty of all 33 counts lodged against him.

Roof stood as a court official read each count. Several people in the courtroom
who lost loved ones in the attack in June 2015 at Emanuel African Methodist
Episcopal Church nodded silently at each "guilty."

Among them was Felicia Sanders, a survivor of the attack, who held her
11-year-old granddaughter to near-suffocation to keep the child still in a hail
of gunfire. The girl survived, but Roof murdered two others in Sanders' family,
her 26-year-old son, Tywanza Sanders, and her 87-year-old aunt, Susie Jackson.

Sanders called the verdict "music to my ears," adding, "I wasn't expecting
anything less."

A few shed tears as the word "guilty" was repeated again and again in a verdict
that holds Roof responsible not only for the murders but also for hate crimes
and obstruction of religion.

The 22-year-old will face a penalty phase, scheduled to begin in January, in
which the same panel will determine whether he should be sentenced to life
imprisonment or execution.

Roof elected to represent himself at sentencing, a move that strips his defense
team of its decision-making powers. Court statements hint that the rift is over
evidence that Roof suffers from an unnamed mental defect, a position his
attorneys have taken for months in court documents.

After jurors were dismissed, U.S. District Court Judge Richard Gergel called
Roof's desire to represent himself a "bad decision" and asked him a series of
questions confirming he wants to maintain that course.

Answering only "yes" or "correct," Roof confirmed his decision, though Gergel
said he would allow Roof until jurors reconvene to change his mind.

Throughout six days of testimony, Roof rarely, if ever, turned his head to look
at a witness or evidence, instead staring straight ahead or at the table before
him.

Thursday, jurors heard closings statements offered by prosecutors and Roof's
lead defense attorney. Prosecutor Nathan Williams and defense attorney David
Bruck agreed on the most important point before jurors: Both said Roof is guilty
of the attack at Mother Emanuel.

In 50 minutes, Williams, 43, offered a summary of the voluminous case against
Roof, honing in on the months of planning that included purchasing a gun,
stockpiling ammunition and writing a manifesto of racist vitriol.

He pointed out that Roof penned a list of predominately black churches, Mother
Emanuel listed at the top of one.

"When you see that list of churches, you see the vastness of his hatred,"
Williams said, showing a video of Roof shooting his Glock pistol into a
phonebook on the ground.

The assistant U.S. attorney described Roof as a coward and a racist who did not
see African Americans as equals.

"He executes them because he doesn't think they are more than animals," Williams
said.

How could someone shoot innocent people while they were on the ground, Williams
asked.

"He thinks they are less than human," he said.

He contrasted what he said were the heroic actions of the victims with the
"executions" by Roof. "These nine people exemplify a goodness that was greater
than his message of hate," the prosecutor said, his voice rising.

The arguments included photos of the crime scene and of the victims alive,
prompting emotional reactions from some family members in the courtroom. Mental
health counselors were on hand to assist family members.

Bruck, 67, urged jurors to consider life imprisonment.

"He tells the FBI he's not delusional," Bruck said, referencing Roof's
video-recorded confession. "If someone says that, common sense tells you he
might be delusional." He pointed to Roof's confusion on that tape over the month
and the number of victims.

Bruck did not contest the evidence in his closing arguments and even offered
praise for the FBI's investigation of the case. He focused instead on what
motivated Roof. He said a racist paradigm seemed to form suddenly after an
Internet search for "black on white crime."

"What happened in that instant is he acquired a magic decoder ring to explain
every bad thing on the Earth," Bruck said.

Bruck said Roof did not get his feelings on race from family or friends. "He
didn't get this from anybody else he knew," he said.

Bruck portrayed Roof as a solitary figure who developed an obsession that a war
existed between whites and blacks that required him to act and to even sacrifice
himself, pointing to his statements to the FBI that he had intended to kill
himself.

"There was something in him that made him feel he had to do it, and that's as
close as they got to it," he said of Roof's motivation.

Roof, he said, was an odd character, a loner who had hundreds of photos of his
cat and wore sweats under his jeans.

Contrasting prosecutors' arguments that Roof had spent a lot of time planning
the murders, Bruck said Roof did not plan much of what he did. "He had no escape
plan, no money, a car full of dirty stuff," he told the jury.

In discussing Roof's lack of remorse, he said, "you don't feel remorseful for
what you felt you had to do."

Bruck concluded by asking jurors to "look beyond the surface."

"Is there something more to the story?" he said.

Jurors asked a single question, one that came an hour into deliberation. They
asked to see the video in which Roof expressed surprise when FBI agents told him
nine people were dead. Roof thought the victims numbered five, maybe four.

The shootings horrified South Carolinians and the nation, and President Obama
eulogized the victims, praising their families for their grace in forgiving
Roof, as a few did during Roof's bond hearing shortly after his capture.

The Mother Emanuel shootings prompted a dialogue about race relations, and South
Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley said in a statement, "It is my hope that the
survivors, the families and the people of South Carolina can find some peace in
the fact that justice has been served."

South Carolina voted to lower the Confederate flag from Statehouse grounds in
response to the crime.

It was a flag Roof visited when it was flying at the Statehouse. It appeared
among the many photos he took of historical sites around the state, many of them
steeped in a history that harkens to slavery or racial tensions.

The case against Roof opened more than a week ago, when Jay Richardson, the lead
assistant U.S. attorney, told jurors they would hear overwhelming evidence
against the 22-year-old.

In the days that followed, Richardson and his team of prosecutors delivered on
that promise, presenting wrenching testimonies of two adult survivors of that
night in June 2015. Between those testimonies delivered by two grandmothers,
jurors heard from witnesses who said Roof planned the attacks. The jury saw his
video-recorded confession, read his racist writings and examined crime scene
photos depicting the dead.

In his opening statement, the lead attorney representing Roof conceded guilt,
saying he might not call witnesses at all. Instead, Bruck tried to nudge the
panel toward considering a life sentence without release over execution.

For that, he earned objections from Richardson, frustrated that Bruck was
attempting to take jurors to the penalty phase of the trial before guilt had
been decided. Gergel agreed, chastising Bruck for stepping outside the bounds of
trial rules.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             462 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Fake-news fighters leap into breach to plug misinformation;
Accuracy crusade needs coordination

BYLINE: Jon Swartz, @jswartz, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 383 words


From a co-working space in the Brooklyn neighborhood of Dumbo, Eli Pariser was
reading a post-election article on the "insolvable" problem of fake news when
the idea hit him.

Why not create a rolling document, collecting ideas from the best and brightest
minds in corporate America, academia and journalism to curtail the scourge of
the misinformation ecosystem? Pariser, CEO of Upworthy, a viral news site that
leans toward liberal social causes and author of The Filter Bubble, grabbed his
laptop and started a Google doc called "Design Solutions for Fake News" that has
swelled to 155 pages and counting.

"It's similar to the spam problem in the 1990s. We fixed that, and we can fix
this," says Sunil Paul, an Internet entrepreneur who founded companies such as
Brightmail and Freeloader and has created a group, The Truth Project, to
eradicate the problem. His solution? A mix of technology, social incentives and
laws.

Pariser and Paul are part of a growing army of individuals, citizen groups and
app developers coming up with solutions to erase fake news on Facebook and
Google.

Many say they have entered the breach because larger companies have been
reluctant to act out of fear of angering conservative groups.

Thursday, Facebook waded in: It said it intends to make it easier for
fact-checking organizations to spot faux articles and for members to report a
hoax. Additionally, the social network is eliminating financial incentives for
spammers.

Facebook spokesman Andy Stone says the company is exploring various avenues,
including partnering with professional fact-checkers.

A spectrum of solutions, all in the early stages, could make a dent though
they'll require coordination, a measured approach and, most importantly, time
and money.

Paul's idea to fight fake news, which could take the form of a non-profit
project, may marry concepts in technology, social incentives and laws.

Ridding the Internet of fake news will take time.

For now, the biggest challenge is stitching together so many ideas in a unified
effort to avoid duplication of effort or -- worse -- conflicting technologies.

"Coordination is important, so we don't walk on each other's toes," says Claire
Wardle, research director of First Draft News, a coalition of nine non-profit
groups that focus on user-generated content.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             463 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

Did leaks put QB in danger?;
Wolford's dad raises issue in Wake scandal

BYLINE: Josh Peter, @joshlpeter11, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 611 words


The father of Wake Forest quarterback John Wolford said he can't help but wonder
if his son suffered injuries as a direct result of opposing teams allegedly
getting inside information from former Wake Forest assistant
coach-turned-broadcaster Tommy Elrod.

"It's just insane," Robert Wolford told USA TODAY Sports on Thursday. "It did
put John potentially in danger of getting hurt. He's not a big quarterback, and
there's no question he's been battered all three years there."

Wolford, who is listed at 6-1 and 200 pounds on the school's roster, has been
sacked 98 times in three seasons at Wake Forest, according to ESPN.com
statistics.

He was sacked seven times and suffered a shoulder injury Nov. 12 in a 44-12
defeat against Louisville, which this week acknowledged receiving information
from Elrod before its game against Wake Forest.

"The thing that enters your mind is whether there were situations where defenses
knew what routes (Wake Forest receivers) were going to run and that put him at
risk because it took longer for the play to develop and for receivers to get
open," Robert Wolford said.

Tom Jurich, Louisville's athletics director, said the coaching staff received
information about a few of Wake Forest's plays. But he said none of the plays
was run during the game and indicated the school gained no competitive advantage
from the information.

Robert Wolford took issue with Jurich's statement.

"For them to sort of minimize it like they did is sort of like rubbing salt in
the wound," he said.

Robert Wolford also cited a Wake Forest play he said was designed for his son to
pass the ball to a tight end, a play that was foiled when three Louisville
defenders were covering the tight end.

"It was obvious they knew what was going to happen," Robert Wolford said. "So
Louisville I don't think has been completely honest about it."

John Wolford, Wake Forest's third-year starting quarterback, said he does not
yet know how much opposing teams benefited from information they received from
Elrod, a former Demon Deacons assistant who was an analyst on the school's
broadcast team when the alleged leaks took place. Elrod was fired after a Wake
Forest investigation that was released Tuesday.

"What I don't want to do, and I wouldn't want getting out, is I'm blaming the
sacks I took or the losses we had completely on this," John Wolford told USA
TODAY Sports. "To attribute it all to this would be unfair. Especially when we
don't know the extent to how many teams got it."

John Wolford said he has been too busy studying for final exams to think much
about past games or spend time watching film to try to determine what
transpired.

"At this point it's behind us," he said, "so going back and doing that wouldn't
do much."

John Wolford said part of what made the findings of Wake Forest's investigation
so surprising is Elrod was the Wake Forest coach who offered Wolford a
scholarship in 2013, when he was playing high school football in Jacksonville.
Elrod was the quarterbacks coach at the time but lost his job shortly thereafter
when Jim Grobe resigned as head coach.

Elrod joined the Wake Forest broadcast team, and Wolford said they said hello
when they saw each other on campus or on the team plane.

"I honestly was shocked," John Wolford said. "In my interaction with him and my
interaction with other players -- some of the older guys that have played
underneath him -- I just didn't expect it. From all my interactions, he seemed
like a good guy."

Although John Wolford said he has put the matter behind him, his father has not.

"I'd like to find out what ultimately prompted Elrod to do this," Robert Wolford
said. "It's just bizarre. Absolutely bizarre."

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jamie Rhodes, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             464 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

Up next: Participation Trophy Bowl?;
Watered-down system could use overhaul

BYLINE: Nancy Armour, narmour@usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 631 words


In the bad old days before the College Football Playoff, one of the loudest
arguments against it was that it would kill the bowl system.

Oh, we should be that lucky.

The bowl season kicks off Saturday, and it won't be long before we're reminded
of how bloated and out of control the system has become. The last game of the
day is the Participation Trophy Award Bowl, featuring Louisiana-Lafayette and
Southern Mississippi in a snooze-inducing clash of two 6-6 teams.

OK, so it's really the New Orleans Bowl. But Participation Trophy Award is more
appropriate, given how the bowl system has run amok.

There are 41 bowls this year and 128 Football Bowl Subdivision teams. That means
a whopping 62.5% of teams are getting the "honor" of playing in the postseason.
Making it even more ridiculous, 20 of the games will have teams with 6-6 records
-- or worse.

My personal favorite is the St.Petersburg Bowl on Dec.26, which features Miami
(Ohio) with a 6-6 record and Mississippi State, one of two bowl teams with a 5-7
record. That's a game even alumni can't love.

There's also the Miami Beach Bowl, which will be played in the middle of the
afternoon on Monday. Featuring one of those 6-6 teams, no less. If you're
wondering if that's the bowl equivalent of a tree falling in the forest when no
one is around to hear it, you are not alone.

Once upon a time, the bowl system actually meant something. With fewer games --
there were 18 only 20 years ago -- each was significant, an event as much as a
game. How many other sporting events could throw a parade and not only not look
foolish, but have it become a time-honored tradition?

And winning a bowl such as the Rose, the Cotton or even the Citrus gave a team a
certain cachet.

The Rose Bowl has been played longer than Alaska and Hawaii have been states.
The Cotton Bowl's proud history includes Bear Bryant, the great Texas teams and
Notre Dame's return to the postseason after a 45-year absence.

But promoters and tourism officials got greedy, and now the market is flooded
with cheap knockoffs such as the Quick Lane, Pinstripe and Russell Athletic
bowls -- the last of which has also been known as the Carquest, Florida Tourism
and MicronPC Bowl. Nothing says national powerhouse quite like champion of the
Quick Lane Bowl.

As the number of games has increased, the value of all but a few of the
signature bowls has diminished. Bowl officials will squawk at that, touting the
economic boost to host cities and teams, along with the added exposure and
practice time for the teams.

You can't argue with the numbers, however. USA TODAY Sports reported this week
that six bowls had not yet found lucrative title or presenting sponsors. One of
those, that Miami Beach Bowl, has never had a title sponsor in its three-year
history.

This on top of eight consecutive years of declines in average bowl attendance.

For years, ESPN has helped bankroll the bowl glut because it provides the
network with programming fodder. ESPN will broadcast 28 bowls this year, along
with the New Year's Six and the Playoff semifinals at the Peach and Fiesta
bowls.

ESPN also has the College Football Playoff title game.

"The bowl system is incredibly healthy," insisted Clint Overby, vice president
of ESPN Events.

He says that now. But as cord cutting continues and ESPN finds the financial
landscape increasingly challenging, it's easy to see how the Famous Idaho Potato
Bowl or the Heart of Dallas Bowl could suddenly become expendable.

At least, let's hope.

By paring  the number of lower-tier bowls, it will restore luster to the ones
that really matter. You know, the ones that don't have to fake enthusiasm as
they invite a team with a .500 record.

Kids generally outgrow the participation awards by the time they're in middle
school. It's time the bowl system did, too.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Mark Henle, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             465 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

Hopkins, 51, aims to finish with KO flourish

BYLINE: Mike Coppinger, @MikeCoppinger, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 10C

LENGTH: 675 words


Tucked away in Bernard Hopkins' pocket for some time was a reminder.

A 3.370-by-2.125-inch memory of why he continues to fight, even one month shy of
his 52nd birthday.

The card is emblazoned with the letter Y, followed by the numbers 4145. It's the
prison identification card Hopkins was issued during his nearly five-year stay
at Pennsylvania State Correctional Institution at Graterford.

When Hopkins waved goodbye to the joint in 1988, the warden snidely remarked
that he'd see him again soon. Of course, Hopkins never returned and made it his
life's mission to prove all the doubters -- and there were many -- wrong.

Hopkins (55-7-2, 32 KOs) will seek to do just that -- one final time -- Saturday
when he faces light heavyweight contender Joe Smith Jr. in a farewell fight
(HBO, 10 p.m. ET) at The Forum in Inglewood, Calif.

There's no old-timer's day in boxing.

This is an unforgiving sport, and it's rare for a fighter to leave on his own
terms, nevermind in a billed goodbye -- Final 1.

Mike Tyson's final foray was a stoppage loss to journeyman heavyweight Kevin
McBride. Muhammad Ali exited the sport with back-to-back defeats.

Marvin Hagler once famously explained the troubles of completing the arduous
training boxing demands after you've made it big: It's hard to get up and run at
5 a.m. when you sleep in silk pajamas.

And yet here's Hopkins -- with tens of millions in the bank, a lifetime of
accomplishments and his health intact -- fighting into his 50s. And he's not
just fighting, he's also competing against credible opponents as the favorite
(Smith's last outing was a first-round knockout of contender Andrzej Fonfara).

The secret?

"Easy," Hopkins said. "You never buy silk underwear. I didn't go to high school.
This is easy. If you understand that silk underwear can be contagious, then you
don't buy silk underwear.

"In the summer, they're hot, they stick to you and they're all sweaty, I heard.
So you buy cotton briefs."

Sacrifice long has been the bread and butter of Hopkins' ways. He's always in
shape. He has always remained hungry.

"This here is in shape whether I fight today or tomorrow," Hopkins said as he
pointed to his chiseled body covered by a vest and a white shirt. "And when I
retire, I'm always going to look good, because that's my mind-set. It's a
lifestyle."

Why does Hopkins continue to fight? It's the same reason Warren Buffett
continues to make deals, despite his billions, Hopkins said. It's simply what
they were put on Earth to do.

When Hopkins was in prison after an armed robbery conviction, he turned to
boxing.

"The Executioner" was defeated in his pro debut and didn't fight professionally
for another 16months. The rest is history: titles in two weight classes, a
record 20 middleweight title defenses, countless upsets against much younger
fighters.

Hopkins even broke George Foreman's record as the oldest man to hold a world
championship when he defeated Jean Pascal in 2011 at age 46.

If Hopkins loses to Smith, a laborer's union worker on Long Island, the future
Hall of Famer says it will tarnish his legacy, one he has worked far too hard to
build.

Hopkins doesn't just want to beat Smith, he also wants to score his first
knockout since a 2004 win against now-partner Oscar De La Hoya.

Somehow, someway, Hopkins has always known how to fight Father Time.

His first farewell fight was in 2006 when he was 45. The Philadelphian was an
underdog then, and he beat Antonio Tarver so comprehensively that he simply
couldn't walk away. Not when there were millions more to make, dozens of
fighters left to beat and millions of people, many of whom doubted him, to be
proved wrong one more time.

So Hopkins will stroll to the ring one final time, with a 70-year-old
acquaintance crooning Frank Sinatra's My Way.

"Bernard Hopkins always did it his way. So what is surprising to anyone?"
Hopkins said. "Is it the age? ... I've been around so damn long I've been
through seven presidencies. What fighter you know who ever done that?

"I'm going to put on a performance where you ask me and beg me to stay. But I
won't."

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Matt Rourke, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             466 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                FA CHASE EDITION

Virginia Tech shows right way to respond to Wake controversy

BYLINE: Nicole Auerbach, @NicoleAuerbach, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 538 words


Let's start with the obvious: No self-respecting college football program wants
to be entangled in the Wake Forest scandal involving proprietary information
allegedly leaked by the team's former radio announcer, Tommy Elrod.

Of course, you'd rather your coaches had never been approached and never been
tempted to take advantage of leaked information in the first place. Most of the
Demon Deacons' opponents over the past three years fall under this category.

But some schools are acknowledging their involvement in the scandal dubbed
"Wakeyleaks." And as it turns out, there's a very wrong way to deal with it,
like Louisville, and a very right way to deal with it -- we'll call that the
Virginia Tech approach.

Wednesday, Louisville athletics director Tom Jurich released a statement that,
essentially, admitted  to the act of cheating but said it shouldn't matter
because the leaked plays weren't actually called when the Cardinals played Wake
Forest. And that he was annoyed that this scandal was affecting Louisville's
coaches during their bowl preparation.

Jurich's statement included zero apologies -- not to Wake Forest coaches or
players or perhaps even to Louisville fans who might be embarrassed by the
cheating -- and no shame.

Compare that to this statement from Virginia Tech athletics director Whit
Babcock, whose response struck a  tone of embarrassment and should be a model of
transparency and accountability for future programs found to have received
illicit info from Elrod:

"We have recently been made aware that a former Wake Forest staff member
provided one of our former assistant coaches with some game plan information
prior to our game in 2014. We have no indication at this time that any of this
information was shared with any other staff members, nor utilized during the
game itself. However, should new information become available, we will be
forthcoming and transparent.

"We hold ourselves to a higher standard at Virginia Tech. We are disappointed
and embarrassed that this type of information was distributed to and apparently
received by one of our former assistant coaches. The distribution of this type
of information among peers or rivals is wrong and not in the vein of
sportsmanship and integrity that we demand and expect, and for this, I would
like to take this opportunity to personally apologize to the coaches,
student-athletes, administration, alumni, students and fans of Wake Forest
University.

"I am also aware of former head coach Frank Beamer's and current defensive
coordinator Bud Foster's public remarks yesterday as to having no knowledge of
the situation and I believe and support both of them wholeheartedly. It should
also be noted that there is no known connection of any kind to our current
coaching staff who were hired in late 2015.

"We will, of course, comply fully with the ACC and all relevant parties as this
unfortunate situation unfolds."

That's about as solid a statement as an athletics director can make, and one
that takes into consideration the feelings of all those involved at Wake Forest
-- including a quarterback whose father thinks was put at risk by the leaks.

That's an athletics director and athletics program worth respecting, even in an
unsavory position.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Andy Lyons, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             467 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

A gifted novelist shows us the 'Way' of it

BYLINE: Barry Singer, Special for USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 536 words


Charles Johnson, one of America's finest novelists (Middle Passage) and foremost
thinkers pondering the cosmos of literature, has published a road map to that
cosmos that is as complex, as daunting and rewarding as the destination itself.
Titled The Way of the Writer: Reflections on the Art and Craft of Storytelling
(Scribner, 256 pp., *** out of four), this dense little book could just as
cogently be called The Rigors of Writing Seriously.

Johnson is dead serious about his business and omnivorous in his pursuit of it.
Seemingly every aspect of writing as an art is touched upon here, and the going
is not easy. Nor, as Johnson makes clear, should it be.

"A Boot Camp for Creative Writing" is the header for one of his early chapters;
it is also Johnson's self-characterization for the classes he taught over many
years in the creative writing program at the University of Washington. A
delineation of those classes kicks of his book like a boot in the keister.

Beyond the three full-length stories his students were expected to write in a
variety of forms and voices, and a daily-kept writer's notebook a la Hawthorne
or Camus, was the welter of killer exercises Johnson threw at his students from
The Art of Fiction, an exacting handbook authored by Johnson's own mentor, the
novelist John Gardner. ("Write three effective long sentences: each at least one
full typed page ... each involving a different emotion" is one of Johnson's
favorites.)

Johnson also (strongly) urges his students to read at least one dictionary
cover-to-cover -- ideally, The Compact Edition of the Oxford English Dictionary,
with its little magnifying glass. Readers, and more than a few writers, may
wince admiringly.

The strictures of Boot Camp slowly lift as The Way of the Writer progresses. A
multipage list of the 100 Best Opening Sentences in English fiction -- borrowed
(with credit) from an old issue of American Book Review -- is enormous fun.
Finally, in a chapter unpromisingly titled "Storytelling and the Alpha
Narrative," Johnson lets slip the tight grip of painstaking craft and simply
gushes (almost) about the "innocent enchantment" of a great story, recalling his
unadulterated joy in reading as a child.

Some of the loveliest writing in The Way of the Writer deals with Johnson's
generally happy childhood growing up in Evanston, Ill. This happy childhood also
generates one of the book's most trenchant observations. In a chapter titled
"The Wounds That Create Our Work," Johnson confronts the belief of his mentor
John Gardner that "a psychological wound is helpful ... to keep the novelist
driven."

"Does a writer need tragedy?" Johnson asks in response. No, he concludes.
"Happy, well-adjusted children or adults can create great art. Guilt and shame
are not the only experiences that 'bend the soul inward.'"

"I work to get emotion into my fiction," Johnson ultimately acknowledges. "In my
essays and articles I'm not emotional, just professorial." A-ha, a reader may
exclaim. That explains a lot about this stringent primer. Its professorial
scrupulousness is inspiring. Underlying it all, however, one easily discerns an
ocean of emotion.

Singer is the author of Churchill Style: The Art of Being Winston Churchill.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Lynette Johnson

DOCUMENT-TYPE: BOOK REVIEW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             468 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

CRITIC'S CORNER

BYLINE: Robert Bianco, @BiancoRobert, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 7D

LENGTH: 219 words


The Man in the High Castle Amazon, Friday

This anti-Sound of Music alternate history returns. Joe heads for Berlin;
everyone else heads for more trouble.

The Sound of Music ABC, Sunday, 7 ET/PT

It doesn't really have anything to do with Christmas (though you could, with a
little lyrical tweaking, turn My Favorite Things into a Santa Claus wish list).
Nonetheless, this final musical from the great Rodgers & Hammerstein has become
an ABC holiday tradition, and its millions of fans wouldn't have it any other
way. And this year, it's airing as a sing-a-long, just in case the words to
Do-Re-Mi have somehow escaped you. It's too long, and sometimes just  too much
-- but there's no disputing the beauty of the scenery and  Julie Andrews' voice
and performance, or the comforting warmth that suffuses the film. So enjoy.

Scrooge TCM, Sunday, 8 ET/5 PT

Families looking for a more explicit holiday connection can turn to Scrooge, the
1970 musical version of A Christmas Carol starring a young and very energetic
Albert Finney. It's fun, though when it comes to musical Carols, my heart still
belongs to Mr. Magoo's. And speaking of musical Carols, it would be nice to see
the 2004 TV version with Kelsey Grammer and a score by Alan Menken and Lynn
Ahrens resurface. It wasn't perfect, but it doesn't deserve to be buried.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo 20th Century Fox/Argyle Enterprises

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             469 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

In the lane, snow is glistening

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 90 words


The winners of the 10Best Readers' Choice Awards for Best Winter Wonderland are
in. Nominees in the contest, sponsored by USA TODAY and 10Best.com, were chosen
by a panel of experts and voted on by the public.

1 Quebec City, Quebec

2 Montreal, Quebec

3 Frankenmuth, Mich.

4 Mackinac Island, Mich.

5 Lake Tahoe, Calif./Nev.

6 Ogunquit, Maine

7 Park City, Utah

8 Ouray, Colo.

9 Aspen, Colo.

10 Yellowstone National Park, Wyo./Mont.

CHIME IN

A new Readers' Choice contest

category launched this week. Vote for Best New Travel App at
10best.com/awards/travel/.


LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Vladone, Getty Images/iStockphoto

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             470 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Turbocharge returns with risks;
Q: Why is my friend's portfolio beating mine?

BYLINE: Matt Krantz

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 187 words


A: It's hard to complain when you're making money in the stock market, unless
your friend or neighbor is making more. If you're getting beat, it's probably
because you're not taking as much risk. That's not necessarily a bad thing.

Stock market returns are connected with the amount of risk you're taking. The
broad stock market is up 10.7% this year. If your friends are up more than that,
it's likely they own asset classes that are riskier than the large U.S. stocks
that populate the Standard & Poor's 500.

One way to turbocharge returns with risk during bull markets is by owning shares
of small companies. The Russell 2000 index is loaded with thousands of small
companies. They have less cash, riskier business models and less diversification
than giants in the S&P 500.

Extra risk pays off in bull markets: The Russell 2000 is up 19.4% this year.
Safer portfolios tend to hold more bonds. During bear markets, bonds tend to be
stable. During bulls, though, they can lag. The Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond
index is down 0.5% this year. If your portfolio is safer than your friends',
that explains the underperformance.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             471 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Story stocks

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 125 words


Delta Air Lines

Price: $50.50

Chg: $0.68

% chg: 1.4%

Day's high/low:

$51.74/$50.43

The airliner that hosted an investory day in the morning said it saw "good
momentum" into 2017. It expects its profit to reach $6 billion. Stock price
neared 2016 high.

21st Century Fox

Price: $27.99

Chg: -$0.03

%chg: -0.1%

Day's high/low:

$28.32/$27.67

The media company took full control of Sky, the British satellite television
company, at about $14.8 billion for the rest of the shares it didn't own. Sky
counts nearly 22 million subscribers.

DuPont

Price: $74.89

Chg: $1.18

%chg: 1.6%

Day's high/low:

$75.00/$73.50

The chemical company reached the settlement with Virginia for river mercury
contamination. The deal is the largest agreement of its kind in state history,
at $50 million.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: graphic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             472 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

TOM'S TOP 10

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 5C

LENGTH: 185 words


1. (2) New England Patriots: Seems like a week to pound LeGarrette Blount
against Denver's defense.

2. (1) Dallas Cowboys: One key to bouncing back vs. Buccaneers -- find ways to
contain Mike Evans.

3. (5) Kansas City Chiefs: Sweeping Raiders might tip coach of year vote toward
Andy Reid.

4. (3) Oakland Raiders: Derek Carr wasn't himself at Kansas City. How much is
finger injury affecting him?

5. (4) Seattle Seahawks: Extent of road woes is perplexing. Earl Thomas is
clearly missed already.

6. (7) Atlanta Falcons: Bad opening drives have hurt young defense. Could
interception vs. Rams turn the tide?

7. (9) Pittsburgh Steelers: Le'Veon Bell is averaging 205.8 combined yards in
their four-game winning streak.

8. (10) New York Giants: Remember when the Rams decided not to give Janoris
Jenkins the franchise tag? Oops.

9. (8) Baltimore Ravens: It's tough for John Harbaugh's teams to win without
running. Now ranked 28th.

10. (NR) Green Bay Packers: Aaron Rodgers is on fire, but his mobility on a bad
calf is worth watching.

Dropped out: Denver Broncos (6).

Note: Does not factor in the results of Thursday's game.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             473 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

NFL WEEK 15 Games

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 4C

LENGTH: 2367 words


Miami Dolphins (8-5)

at New York Jets (5-9)

TV: Saturday, 8:25 p.m. ET, NFL Network (Mike Tirico, Doug Flutie)

Line: Dolphins by 21/2

Injury report: Dolphins QB Ryan Tannehill (knee) will not play. Jets RB Matt
Forte (knee) is a game-time decision.

Key to the game: Stay grounded: Both teams will need to get their running games
going to take pressure off potentially shaky quarterbacks who have spent much
more time holding clipboards than throwing footballs over the last two seasons.
Miami needs to get RB Jay Ajayi going. The Jets hope to have Forte back in the
lineup but are confident Bilal Powell can duplicate Sunday's sterling effort.

By the numbers: 273. The number of receptions by Dolphins WR Jarvis Landry, the
most by any receiver in NFL history through his first three seasons.

Tennessee Titans (7-6) at

Kansas City Chiefs (10-3)

TV: Sunday, 1 p.m. ET, CBS (Greg Gumbel, Trent Green, Jamie Erdahl)

Line: Chiefs by 5

Injury report: Chiefs LB Derrick Johnson (torn Achilles tendon) is out for the
year.

Key to the game: Tennessee, tied for the AFC South lead, has held opponents to
fewer than than 100 rushing yards in eight of its last nine games and held the
Denver Broncos to 18 last weekend. The Titans rank third in the league, allowing
86.6 rushing yards per game. Meanwhile, the Chiefs have held opponents to fewer
than 100 three times this season and rank 27th at 122.9 yards per game.

Matchup to watch: Titans RB DeMarco Murray vs. Chiefs LB D.J. Alexander. Murray
is a vital part of Tennessee's offense, so containing him is priority No. 1.
Denver held him to 92 yards on 21 carries, but he managed to score the game's
only touchdown. With Johnson done for the year, Alexander is the next man up for
K.C.'s defense.

Pittsburgh Steelers (8-5) at

Cincinnati Bengals (5-7-1)

TV: Sunday, 1 p.m. ET, CBS (Ian Eagle, Dan Fouts, Evan Washburn)

Line: Steelers by 3

Injury report: Steelers WR Darrius Heyward-Bey (foot) hopes to return. Bengals
WR A.J. Green (hamstring) could play if he practices Friday.

Key to the game: Steelers RB Le'Veon Bell (franchise record 236 rushing yards,
three TDs last week) was suspended for the first Bengals game, and in his last
two games against Cincinnati he has been held to 65 total rushing yards. But he
has been a major threat recently, and he might be the most important player in
this game.

Matchup to watch: Bengals CB Adam Jones vs. Steelers WR Antonio Brown. The
Steelers move Brown all over the formation, and his team's recent rushing
success makes Brown more dangerous if Bengals defensive backs get caught peeking
in the backfield. The Bengals will need to limit Brown's yards after the catch
and put the Steelers in passing situations. Jones and the other Bengals
defensive backs have played well lately and must deliver another big
performance.

Detroit Lions (9-4) at

New York Giants (9-4)

TV: Sunday, 1 p.m. ET, Fox (Joe Buck, Troy Aikman, Erin Andrews)

Line: Giants by 4

Injury report: Lions QB Matthew Stafford (finger) is expected to play. Giants LB
Keenan Robinson (shoulder) is expected to play.

Key to the game: Lions receivers will have to work extra hard to find open
spaces against the Giants secondary, which has emerged as one of the league's
best. CBs Janoris Jenkins and Dominique Rodgers-Cromartie are at the top of
their games, and rookie CB Eli Apple has blossomed into a strong No. 3. S Landon
Collins has five interceptions, five tackles for loss, three sacks and a fumble
recovery.

Matchup to watch: Lions CB Darius Slay vs. Giants WR Odell Beckham Jr. Beckham
is a game-breaker, and he turned a routine slant into a spectacular 61-yard
sprint for what turned out to be the winning score last week. Slay has been the
brightest spot on a pass defense that has allowed an opponent's passer rating of
101.3, the league's second highest. Keeping Beckham under wraps will be a
monumental challenge.

Indianapolis Colts (6-7) at

Minnesota Vikings (7-6)

TV: Sunday, 1 p.m. ET, CBS (Kevin Harlan, Rich Gannon)

Line: Vikings by 4

Injury report: Colts G Jack Mewhort (knee) is day-to-day. Vikings RB Adrian
Peterson (knee) could return.

Key to the game: The Colts defense turned away the Houston Texans four out of
five times within Indianapolis' 20-yard line. Minnesota, the NFL's 30th-rated
red-zone offense, made things close in Jacksonville because it settled for field
goals three times in the red zone and twice came up empty after advancing to the
Jaguars' 1. Enter Peterson? The Colts yielded a season-high 185 rushing yards to
Houston, but Minnesota has surpassed the century mark one time this season, in
Week 4.

By the numbers: 71.2%. The completion percentage of Vikings QB Sam Bradford,
whose career rate is 61.9%. He is tied with Drew Brees' 2011 mark for the NFL's
single-season record.

Jacksonville Jaguars (2-11)

at Houston Texans (7-6)

TV: Sunday, 1 p.m. ET, CBS (Andrew Catalon, Steve Tasker, Steve Beuerlein)

Line: Texans by 61/2

Injury report: Jaguars RB Chris Ivory (hamstring) is expected to play. WR Allen
Hurns (hamstring) is not expected to play. Texans CB Johnathan Joseph (ribs) and
OLB John Simon (chest) are day-to-day.

Key to the game: Much of Houston's and Jacksonville's offensive success relies
on their quarterbacks' ability to make the right passes. Jacksonville's Blake
Bortles and Houston's Brock Osweiler have struggled with accuracy and
interceptions all season, and their porous offensive lines haven't helped them.

By the numbers: -45. The Texans' point differential despite their 7-6 record and
share of first place in the AFC South. The NFL's other seven division leaders
have an average differential of +67.

Green Bay Packers (7-6)

at Chicago Bears (3-10)

TV: Sunday, 1 p.m. ET, Fox (Kevin Burkhardt, John Lynch, Pam Oliver)

Line: Packers by 61/2

Injury report: Bears NT Eddie Goldman (ankle) is day-to-day. Packers QB Aaron
Rodgers (hamstring) will play but could be limited.

Key to the game: The calf injury relegated improvisational Rodgers to the pocket
last week, where he dissected the Seattle Seahawks' previously No. 1-scoring
defense. Speedy top pick Leonard Floyd, who broke out in the first meeting with
two sacks including a strip-sack for a touchdown, and Akiem Hicks (career-high
seven sacks) must capitalize on Rodgers' limited mobility.

Matchup to watch: Packers WR Randall Cobb vs. Bears CB Cre'Von LeBlanc: LeBlanc
broke up a pair of would-be Cobb TDs during the teams' first meeting, though
Cobb managed 11 catches for 95 yards and a score. LeBlanc has since earned a
starter's role, whereas Cobb departed last weekend on a cart with an ankle
injury before returning.

Cleveland Browns (0-13)

at Buffalo Bills (6-7)

TV: Sunday, 1 p.m. ET, CBS (Tom McCarthy, Adam Archuleta)

Line: Bills by 10

Injury report: Bills DT Kyle Williams (back) is hopeful of playing.

Key to the game: The Bills probably need to win out to keep coach Rex Ryan in
Buffalo -- and that's doable, with remaining games against winless Cleveland, a
Dolphins team that has lost its starting quarterback and a Jets team playing for
pride and jobs. But even a 9-7 finish might not be enough to persuade ownership
to retain Ryan.

Player to watch: Bills QB Robert Griffin III.  Despite the rust from a
three-month hiatus, he'll probably start the last three games as coach Hue
Jackson continues to assess his personnel for 2017. Griffin won the job in camp
but was knocked out of action in Week 1. This four-game audition could confirm
or change Jackson's belief Griffin should be his quarterback in 2017.

Philadelphia Eagles (5-8)

at Baltimore Ravens (7-6)

TV: Sunday, 1 p.m. ET, Fox (Kenny Albert, Daryl Johnston, Laura Okmin)

Line: Ravens by 6

Injury report: Eagles RBs Darren Sproles (concussion) remains in protocol. RB
Wendell Smallwood (knee) went on injured reserve and is out for the season.
Ravens CB Jimmy Smith (ankle) is day-to-day.

Key to the game: Establish a rhythm: Whether it's with Zach Ertz, Darren Sproles
or someone else, look for the Eagles to try to get QB Carson Wentz safe and
simple throws early so he can get comfortable. If they can catch the Ravens
overplaying those, they'll take shots over the top.

By the numbers: 30. Career touchdown receptions for Eagles RB Sproles. He is the
only player in NFL history with 30 career TD receptions, 20 career TD runs, a
punt-return TD and a kick-return TD.

San Francisco 49ers (1-12)

at Atlanta Falcons (8-5)

TV: Sunday, 4:05 p.m. ET, Fox (Thom Brennaman, Charles Davis, Chris Spielman,
Peter Schrager)

Line: Falcons by 121/2

Injury report: 49ers WR Torrey Smith (concussion) remains in protocol. Falcons
WR Julio Jones (toe sprain) is questionable.

Key to the game: Atlanta showed it was more than capable of playing well without
Jones. Most notably, QB Matt Ryan distributed the ball to eight receivers. That
should give the Falcons supreme confidence going up against another inferior
opponent.

Matchup to watch: 49ers RB Carlos Hyde vs. Falcons MLB Deion Jones. Hyde is
coming off a season-high 193 yards rushing (143 before contact) on 17 carries
and a 7-yard scoring catch against the Jets. Jones, a second-round pick from
LSU, has returned two of his three interceptions for TDs, including one for 33
yards vs. the Rams.

New Orleans Saints (5-8)

at Arizona Cardinals (5-7-1)

TV: Sunday, 4:05 p.m. ET, Fox (Chris Myers, Ronde Barber, Jennifer Hale)

Line: Cardinals by 21/2

Injury report: Saints LT Terron Armstead (knee, quad) is on injured reserve and
out for the season. CB Delvin Breaux (shoulder) is day-to-day. WR Michael Thomas
(foot) practiced Wednesday and could play. Cardinals S Tyrann Mathieu (shoulder)
is day-to-day.

Key to the game: Saints QB Drew Brees and Cardinals QB Carson Palmer have
combined for nearly 15,000 passes during their illustrious careers, but they're
starting to show signs of age. Brees has failed to throw a touchdown pass in
back-to-back games, the first time that has happened since 2009, and Palmer has
been skidding down the other side of the hill for the good part of a year.

Player to watch: Cardinals S D.J. Swearinger. While  Arizona holds out hope that
Mathieu comes back from injury, it might have to rely on Swearinger at the back
of the defense again. Swearinger has been a playmaker at times this season but
also has been susceptible to big plays.

Oakland Raiders (10-3) at

San Diego Chargers (5-8)

TV: Sunday, 4:25 p.m. ET, CBS (Spiro Dedes, Solomon Wilcots)

Line: Raiders by 3

Injury report: Raiders S Karl Joseph (toe) is unlikely to play. Chargers RB
Melvin Gordon (hip, knee) is unlikely to play.

Key to the game: Unless his finger remains an issue, it's difficult to imagine
Raiders QB Derek Carr not rebounding from a bad game to get back on track. He
has to help the Raiders be better in the red zone, where they were 1-for-4 on
touchdowns vs. Kansas City and failed to score twice.

Matchup to watch: Raiders WRs Amari Cooper and Michael Crabtree vs. Chargers CBs
Craig Mager and Casey Hayward. The weather will be warmer, and the Raiders will
be rested. That means Mager and Hayward will be challenged trying to stop Cooper
and Crabtree, who will be focused on putting the Kansas City game behind them.
Cooper has 73 receptions for 1,010 yards, and Crabtree has caught 71 balls for
806 yards.

N. England Patriots (11-2)

at Denver Broncos (8-5)

TV: Sunday, 4:25 p.m. ET, CBS (Jim Nantz, Phil Simms, Tracy Wolfson, Jay Feely)

Line: Patriots by 3

Injury report: Patriots CB Malcolm Butler (hip) is day-to-day. WR Danny Amendola
(ankle) is unlikely to play. Broncos LBs Todd Davis (ribs) and Brandon Marshall
(hamstring) are unlikely to play.

Key to the game: This will be Broncos QB Trevor Siemian's first game against the
Patriots, and how he handles it will determine how productive the Broncos will
be on offense. Siemian probably has to find a way to get the ball to WRs
Demaryius Thomas and Emmanuel Sanders consistently and hit some big plays.

Matchup to watch: Patriots RB LeGarrette Blount vs. Broncos run defense. Denver
was 28th against the run (122.8 per game) before Tennessee rushed for 180 yards
Sunday. In the last two games, the Broncos have allowed 334 yards rushing.

Tampa Bay Buccaneers (8-5)

at Dallas Cowboys (11-2)

TV: Sunday, 8:25 p.m. ET, NBC (Al Michaels, Cris Collinsworth, Michele Tafoya)

Line: Cowboys by 7

Injury report: Bucs WR Adam Humphries and RT Demar Dotson (concussions) have not
cleared the protocol and are day-to-day. Cowboys DE DeMarcus Lawrence (back) is
unlikely to play.

Key to the game: The Bucs' 25 takeaways are tied for the league lead, and 14
have come in the last five weeks. The Cowboys offense, which had done an
excellent job of taking care of the ball this season, has had five turnovers in
the last two games, including a season-high three last weekend.

Player to watch: Cowboys QB Dak Prescott. Dallas is counting on its young
quarterback to be a steadying influence on offense. But Prescott has looked like
a rookie in recent weeks. He has thrown for fewer than 200 yards in each of his
last three games and has had trouble getting the ball to his best receiver, WR
Dez Bryant, who managed one catch on nine targets vs. the Giants.

Carolina Panthers (5-8) at

Washington Redskins (7-5-1)

TV: Monday, 8:30 p.m. ET, ESPN (Sean McDonough, Jon Gruden, Lisa Salters)

Line: Redskins by 4 1/2

Injury report: Panthers MLB Luke Kuechly (concussion) is day-to-day. Redskins TE
Jordan Reed (shoulder) will be limited if he plays. LBs Will Compton (knee) and
Su'a Cravens (elbow) are day-to-day.

Key to the game: If the Panthers' pass rush puts forth the same effort against
Washington as it did vs. San Diego QB Philip Rivers (five sacks, seven QB hits),
it could make for a long day for Redskins QB Kirk Cousins. DE Mario Addison
leads Carolina with 71/2 sacks, and DT Kawann Short has five.

Matchup to watch: Panthers WR Kelvin Benjamin vs. Redskins CB Josh Norman: All
eyes will be on Norman, the Redskins' mercurial, trash-talking cornerback, in
his first game against his former team. Many suggest the Panthers' woes began
when he was abruptly released from his franchise tag during the offseason,
enabling him to sign a five-year, $75 million contract with Washington. Benjamin
(51 catches for 765 yards and a team-high five TDs) has a 5-inch height
advantage on Norman, who has one interception.

Compiled by USA TODAY Sports

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Kim Klement, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             474 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

FIRST WORD

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 146 words


IT ALMOST FELT LIKE I WAS STABBED IN THE BACK."

Redskins cornerback Josh Norman, in a conference call with Charlotte sports
media, talking about the Panthers rescinding their franchise tag on him and in
effect letting him go to Washington, where Carolina plays Monday.

magic number

21

Sacks the Patriots have allowed through 13 games. Sunday they play the Broncos,
the NFL's top-ranked pass defense.

tweet of the day

@Braves

Always -- 90% of trades never happen, but you still go down the rabbit hole.

Braves general manager John Coppolella, who took over the team's Twitter account
Thursday, when asked if he was working on any big trades.

names to know

SCARLETT STEIN, SHAWN GREEN, PETER BURROWS

last word

"THERE WILL NEVER BE ANOTHER CRAIG SAGER."

Statement from Turner Sports President David Levy on the death Thursday of the
beloved broadcaster. Sager obit, 10C

Edited by Thomas O'Toole

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Mark J. Rebilas, USA TODAY Sports

DOCUMENT-TYPE: SPORTSLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             475 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Fake news spread by 23% of Americans, study says;
More than 1 in 10 said they shared a story knowing it was fake

BYLINE: Mike Snider, @mikesnider, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 425 words


If you've used the Internet, there's a good chance you've passed around fake
news. Nearly one-fourth of Americans saying they have shared made-up news,
according to a new Pew Research Center survey.

Fake stories and information have become real news stories recently as they
permeated the recent U.S. presidential election cycle.

Earlier this month, police arrested an armed man who entered a Washington, D.C.,
business seeking revelations about a made-up online conspiracy about Hillary
Clinton.

"We felt it was worth putting some solid data around it ... how the public feels
about this and their sense of exposure," said Amy Mitchell, Pew's director of
journalism research and a co-author of the report.

Nearly one-fourth (23%) of Americans say they have shared a fake news story,
according to Pew's survey of 1,002 U.S. adults, conducted from Dec. 1 to Dec. 4.
More than one in 10  (14%) said they shared the story knowing it was fake at the
time. Even more (16%), said they found out that the story was fake after they
shared it.

Overall, about one-third (32%) of Americans say they often see made-up political
news stories online on social networks such as Facebook and via search engines.

For a large portion of respondents (63%), fake news creates "great confusion"
among the public about current events, the survey finds.

An additional 24% said fake news causes some confusion. "Overall, we find that a
substantial portion of Americans say they come across this news frequently and a
solid majority feel that it adds significantly to the confusion in our country
over the basic facts connected to current events," Mitchell said.

After the November election, an analysis by Buzzfeed found that fake stories
outperformed real news stories during the final three months of the campaign
cycle.

The most shared and read Facebook story during that time was a fake report of
Pope Francis releasing a statement endorsing then-Republican nominee Donald
Trump. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has said the company plans to crack down on
fake news spread through the network.

When asked about who is responsible for the prevalence of fake news and the
prevention of its spread, respondents said that social networks, politicians and
the public bear an equal burden -- each garnering a result of more than 40% of
respondents saying they bear great responsibility.

But many Americans also said they can tell when news is fake or not. Nearly four
out of 10  (39%) are very confident in their abilities to recognize fake news,
while another 45% were somewhat confident.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo JIM LO SCALZO, European Pressphoto Agency

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             476 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

FCC chair and Net neutrality ally resigns

BYLINE: Brett Molina, @brettmolina23, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 203 words


Federal Communications Commission Chair Tom Wheeler, who passed important rules
on Net neutrality during his three-year tenure, will step down from the agency
next month.

In a statement released Thursday, Wheeler says he will depart from the FCC
effective Jan. 20.

"Serving as FCC Chairman during this period of historic technological change has
been the greatest honor of my professional life," said Wheeler in a statement.
"I am deeply grateful to the President for giving me this opportunity."

Wheeler was named FCC chair in 2013.

One year later, he helped pass rules on Net neutrality, which require Internet
service providers to treat all content on the Web equally.

However, those rules could be in jeopardy when President-elect Donald Trump
takes office. In a tweet in 2014, Trump called the FCC's adoption of Net
neutrality rules a "power grab" by President Obama.

Wheeler also attempted to push rules transforming how consumers could watch
cable. The rules would have required TV service providers to create apps
allowing consumers to view programming without the need for a traditional
set-top box.

The FCC was expected to vote on the measure in September, but it was pulled from
the agenda for future consideration.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             477 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Hey, electors, dump Trump

BYLINE: Jim Himes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 361 words


Why have an Electoral College? Alexander Hamilton made it plain: to ensure that
"the office of president will never fall to the lot of any man who is not in an
eminent degree endowed with the requisite qualifications." It is a safeguard
against a demagogue putting our country's values and our security at risk.

Since his election, Donald Trump has ignored his serious conflicts of interest;
skipped intelligence briefings while overturning generations of China policy;
could have emboldened Philippine death squads; attacked the cast of the Broadway
play Hamilton for speaking out; told whopping lies on Twitter; trashed our
intelligence agencies; and defended the Kremlin from charges of interfering with
our elections.

This is not a partisan issue. Many honorable Republican leaders agree Mr. Trump
is a walking, tweeting negation of core American values: liberty, service,
compassion, respect for learning, humility and honor. Zero Republican presidents
endorsed Mr. Trump, and Mitt Romney, the party's 2012 presidential nominee, said
Trump is "playing the members of the American public for suckers."

Whether Mr. Trump exhibits the "talents for low intrigue, and the little arts of
popularity" feared by the Founders is up to the electors. Twice in our history,
the Electoral College has denied the presidency to winners of the popular vote
-- Grover Cleveland and Al Gore -- with no serious charges of election
"rigging."

Monday, it could deny the presidency to a candidate whose qualifications are in
question and who  lost the popular vote dramatically.

The Electoral College need not elect  Hillary Clinton. It could choose a
consensus candidate who might begin to heal our fractured republic.

Our Founders wisely provided a mechanism to address this chaotic situation; it
is folly not to use it. Thoughtful GOP leaders should join together today to
release the electors to vote their conscience -- to save their party and our
nation from years of tumult and danger.

Our country would be forever in their debt.

Rep. Jim Himes, D-Conn.,  is the ranking member of the House NSA and
Cybersecurity Subcommittee, part of the  Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             478 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

'Tis the season for animal rights

BYLINE: Ben Williamson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 504 words


At this time of year, we often see animals subjected to cruel holiday stunts or
treated as living props in our confusing pageantry. Domino's Japan recently
announced it was canceling its ill-conceived plan to train reindeer to deliver
pizza, following a PETA Asia campaign. Just this week, a man was charged with
abusing a camel that was part of a live Nativity scene at a hospital in
Pikeville, Ky.

With online purchases at a record high, brick-and-mortar businesses are pulling
out all the stops to draw customers. But while shoppers can choose whether or
not to stand in long lines and battle the crowds, animals used in holiday
promotions face a bleak Christmas season.

Santa belongs at the mall -- but reindeer do not. These large, strong animals
tend to be skittish and unpredictable, and research has shown that stress,
exhaustion and poor nutrition can cause them to develop respiratory diseases.

Many malls offer horse-drawn carriage rides in a misguided effort to add an
old-fashioned flavor to the season. Many horses suffer from leg pain after
pounding hard asphalt all day long or slogging through slush and ice.

Horses and humans alike have been seriously hurt -- and even killed. Fourteen
people on a holiday carriage ride in Virginia several years ago were
hospitalized after a car slammed into them, ejecting the driver and causing the
horses to run for 100 yards before finally hitting a pole.

And doesn't forcing animals to participate in Nativity scenes and festive shows
contradict everything that the season represents? Over the years, camels, sheep
and donkeys used as props in holiday displays have been attacked by dogs or
targeted by cruel people. A West Virginia man was arrested after he was caught
having sex with a sheep who was being used in a crèche. Frightened and confused,
animals have sometimes escaped, only to be hit and killed in traffic. Officials
in Charleston, S.C., decided to discontinue using them in the city's
tree-lighting ceremony after a giraffe became upset by a confetti cannon and
crowds taking flash pictures.

Live Nativity displays that use animals aren't even historically accurate. In
Pope Benedict XVI's biography of Jesus Christ, he points out that there were no
oxen, camels, donkeys or other animals of any kind in the manger.

Children shouldn't be given the message that animals can be used as props, no
matter how altruistic the intention. The magic of the holiday season will not be
diminished for kids by ending the exploitation of animals, yet to the animals,
it will make a world of difference.

At this time of year, goodwill takes center stage, and there are many ways to
celebrate that don't compromise animals' well-being by forcing them to
participate in stressful Christmas exhibits.

During this festive period, caring readers can extend the hand of compassion to
all by refusing to patronize reindeer photo ops, carriage rides and "living"
Nativity scenes.

Ben Williamson is senior international media director with People for the
Ethical Treatment of Animals.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             479 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

GoDaddy in, Frito-Lay out as Super Bowl ads take shape

BYLINE: Eli Blumenthal, @eliblumenthal, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 346 words


There are still three weeks left in the NFL's regular season, but that hasn't
stopped companies from revealing their ad playbooks for February's Super Bowl.

Thursday, domain name seller GoDaddy is slated to announce it is rejoining the
field, with plans to advertise in  Super Bowl LI after sitting out last year's
big game. It joins other marketers such as Mars-owned Snickers and Skittles
candies, Avocados from Mexico, WeatherTech, Wix and Anheuser-Busch InBev.
Anheuser-Busch  will advertise several brands during the Feb.5 game, including
Budweiser, Bud Light and Busch, with the latter making its Super Bowl ad debut.

GoDaddy's upcoming 30-second ad will mark the 12th time the brand has advertised
in the Super Bowl.

"We're back," GoDaddy Chief Marketing Officer Barb Rechterman says. The company
took off last year's game to devote resources to expanding its international
presence, she says, with its services now available to more than 56 markets.

Known for its provocative ads that featured scantily clad women and some
shocking storylines, its early Super Bowl ads helped turn the company into a
brand name. GoDaddy hasn't revealed much about what its upcoming commercial will
feature. It is, however, teasing that it will promote a new, yet-to-be announced
product and will be the first of a yearlong campaign designed to highlight the
"power of the Internet."

In a season where NFL TV viewership has seen declines, the Super Bowl is still a
major attraction for advertisers. Last year's battle between the Carolina
Panthers and Denver Broncos drew 113million viewers, with 16.9million Super
Bowl-related tweets sent during the game, according to research firm Nielsen. In
2015, 114million people tuned in to see the New England Patriots beat the
Seattle Seahawks, which was the most-watched Super Bowl ever.

While GoDaddy and others are back,  PepsiCo's Frito-Lay, maker of Doritos, will
sit this year out.

"There are no plans for Frito-Lay brands to advertise during the upcoming Super
Bowl as it did not fit with our marketing plans," the company said in a
statement.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Andrew Gombert, European Pressphoto Agency

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             480 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Brit Marling brings 'The OA' to life on Netflix;
Surprise thriller explores woman's near-death experience

BYLINE: Patrick Ryan, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 518 words


It's not every night you go to a party and bring home a TV character.

But that's essentially what happened to The OA's Brit Marling a few years ago
when she met an uncanny young woman who said she had died and come back to life.

"I saw her from across the room, and she just seemed to be operating at a
different frequency," Marling says. "So when she told me she had this near-death
experience -- and described leaving her body and what she felt inside herself on
the return -- you understand why she felt like a person who was both apart from
the world, but also more deeply in it. The idea of a character like that became
really appealing."

The encounter provided a springboard for Netflix's eight-part series The OA,
which the streaming giant surprise-announced Monday and released Friday. The
sci-fi thriller was created by Marling and Zal Batmanglij, who were eager to try
an ongoing series after writing mind-bending films Sound of My Voice and The
East (both of which also starred Marling).

Like Netflix's similarly twisty phenomenon Stranger Things, The OA is a "layered
mystery; there are lots of clues everywhere," says Batmanglij, who directed all
eight episodes.

The show centers on steely heroine Prairie Johnson (Marling), a blind woman who
returns home after disappearing for seven years with her sight restored and a
new moniker, OA (the origins of which are revealed midway through the series).
Recruiting a group of teenage boys and their algebra teacher (The Office's
Phyllis Smith) for a mysterious mission, OA gradually shares how she was
kidnapped and caged by a scientist (Harry Potter's Jason Isaacs), who performed
experiments on her and others who had near-death experiences.

"A lot of the things in her story become metaphorical conceits that make sense
to the boys," who feel confined by school, parents and definitions of
masculinity, Marling says. (One student is played by 15-year-old transgender
actor Ian Alexander.)

To capture how today's kids talk and think, Marling and Batmanglij traveled to
high schools and interviewed students. They also spoke to those who reported
near-death experiences.

The most intensive research came through Marling's work with a blind technical
consultant for the many flashback scenes in which OA is sightless. Sometimes
wearing a blindfold for five- to six-hour stretches, she relearned tasks as
seemingly simple as cooking  and as difficult as using New York's public
transportation.

"I feel like when I'm navigating Manhattan with my eyes open, I'm likely to get
run over," Marling says. "But when you have a blindfold on ... you have to get
through that moment of terror ... and begin to awaken (your) other senses."

Although The OA tells a self-contained story, Marling says she and Batmanglij
have ideas for potential future seasons. But for now, the social media-shy
creators are anxiously awaiting viewers' reactions.

"I'm very curious to see what kinds of interpretations people come up with,
because there may be lots that weren't what we were thinking," Marling says.
"Once you surrender a story to the world, those are just as valid as yours."

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo JoJo Whilden, Netflix

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             481 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Report: Verizon could ditch $4.8B Yahoo deal

BYLINE: Jon Swartz, and Elizabeth Weise, @jswartz, @eweise

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 444 words


Yahoo shares tumbled more than 5% Thursday on a report that Verizon is
reconsidering its $4.83 billion deal to acquire the embattled Internet company.

Bloomberg, citing people familiar with the matter, said Verizon is reconsidering
the deal, or could bargain down the price, on the heels of yet another massive
computer breach at Yahoo, disclosed late Wednesday. Y

ahoo said a breach in August 2013 may have led to the theft of data from more
than 1 billion user accounts.

The FBI is investigating the matter, the White House acknowledged.

A Yahoo spokesman said the company remains confident in its value and continues
to work towards integration with Verizon.

"As we've said all along, we will evaluate the situation as Yahoo continues its
investigation," Verizon spokesman Bob Varettoni said in a statement to USA TODAY
on Wednesday, following news of the 1-billion account breach. "We will review
the impact of this new development before reaching any final conclusions."

The latest digital intrusion, on top of a 500-million account break-in disclosed
in September, could give Verizon pause on consummating the mega-merger, say
industry analysts.

Although Verizon "still sees a strong fit" for Yahoo within its digital
strategy, whether Verizon can find a way to extricate itself from liability
associated with the latest hack or agree to a discounted acquisition price, is
unclear, says Ken Sena, an analyst at investment bank Evercore ISI.

"(Verizon reportedly sought) a $1 billion price concession for the Russian hack
of 500 million accounts," says John Colley, a professor at Warwick Business
School in the United Kingdom, alluding to misgivings from Verizon general
counsel Craig Silliman in October.

"This 'new' hack appears more damaging still. Aborting the deal may be the best
option for Verizon as many shareholders have doubts about their social media
strategy. Acquiring 'damaged goods' is not going to help," he says.

Cybersecurity issues aside, Verizon is taking on a company facing steep
challenges. Yahoo's slice of worldwide digital advertising is shrinking because
Google, Facebook, Alibaba and others are growing significantly faster.

Yahoo's ad revenue is expected to grow to $3 billion, but its market share is
expected to drop to 1.3%, according to new data from eMarketer.

A damaged deal could also boomerang Yahoo executives.

"Such disclosure, taking into consideration the unclear and even suspicious
disclosure timeline, just before the buyout, may provide a valid reason for
Yahoo's shareholders to sue Yahoo's top management if the deal fails or brings
less money than expected," says Ilia Kolochenko, CEO of web security firm
High-Tech Bridge.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo 2006 photo by JUSTIN LANE, European Pressphoto Agency

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             482 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

STOCK PROS: Own these stocks in 2017

BYLINE: Matt Krantz

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 1990 words


With big changes in the offing, our experts name names in helping investors plot
a new course this year

You just pretty much needed to own stocks in 2016 to make money. Don't expect
such an easy time in 2017 as the market braces for changes that could shake
things up. Practically anything with a ticker symbol rose in 2016. It was just a
matter of by how much. With a little more than two weeks before the New Year,
owning the Standard & Poor's 500 index has delivered investors an 11.1% gain.
Holding small companies has been even better, with the Russell 2000 index up
21%.

But the days of easy stock gains are over as the market prepares for big
changes, according to experts tapped in the 2017 USA TODAY Investment
Roundtable. Higher interest rates, massive investments being moving to corporate
cloud computing and important bets on new forms of transportation and advanced
manufacturing are just a few of the important shifts investors need to be
prepared for. That's why our gurus think investors will find the best success
with the following playbook and they name names.

Jeff Rottinghaus portfolio manager T. Rowe Price U.S. Large-Cap Core Fund

AutoZone, AZO: Thursday's close $795.57. Sells automotive replacement parts from
more than 5,000 stores in the U.S., Mexico and Brazil.

Why he likes it: AutoZone has steadily increased its earnings per share and
sales at stores open at least a year and has also been buying back stock.
AutoZone is trading for 14 times expected earnings in 2018, making it an
attractive relative value especially if tax rates come down. The company also
has limited competition as the "industry that's largely consolidated amongst two
big guys" including Advance Auto Parts (AAP).

Amazon, AMZN: Thursday's close $761. The U.S.' biggest online retailer that also
has a fast-growing business of selling computer capabilities to other companies.

Why he likes it: While it might seem Amazon has a firm grip on online shopping,
T. Rowe Price estimates that it only has a 3% share of the entire future
e-commerce market. A big piece of growth comes from its Amazon Web Services
business, where Amazon rents out computing capability to other companies for a
fee. This could be a dramatically larger opportunity as more businesses shift
their technology to the cloud. "Talk about disruption, this is a disruptive
company going after two of the largest end market opportunities that we see,"
namely online retail and cloud services, he says.

JP Morgan Chase, JPM: Thursday's close $86. The most valuable U.S. bank by
market value with community banking, investment banking and asset management
operations.

Why he likes it: The management team continues to show an ability to boost
returns. That strong management could be even more successful if there are
benefits for financial firms in terms of tax reform or lower regulation.
Specifically, any new regulation that lowers the amount of capital banks must
keep could boost profitability. "It's the highest quality bank in the market,"
he says.

Visa, V: Thursday's close $79.50. Visa is a global leader in payment systems and
it gives merchants the ability to be paid online or in physical locations.

Why he likes it: Visa is a classic example of a "secular growth" stock, in other
words, a company that could benefit no matter what happens with the global
economy. Only 20% of global payments are electronic, a percentage that will
increase as more consumers turn away from the inconveniences of cash. Growth
will only continue in 2017 as Visa integrates its acquisition of Visa's European
operations. "There's a lot of room to run here," he says.

Rupal Bhansali chief investment officer of international and global equities at
Ariel Investments

Gilead Sciences, GILD: Thursday's close $75.55. A biotechnology company working
on treatments and cures for a variety of diseases ranging from liver
malfunctions to HIV and hepatitis.

Why she likes it: The stock is "dirt cheap" as it has been sold off, she says.
The company generates "ridiculous amounts of" cash flow, so much so it could buy
back the entire company in five years at the current rate. The company's big
promise is that it's not just working on drugs to improve conditions, but
rather, to cure them. Justifying a high drug price is easier when selling a
cure. "Companies that create value will be able to charge for that. And they are
curing a disease. That's the Holy Grail of medicine," she says.

Nokia (ADR), NOK: Thursday's close $4.72. A seller of wireless networking
infrastructure equipment and mobile Internet gear.

Why she likes it: Growing demand for mobile data is a boon for Nokia, which is
one of the biggest left of a "handful" of players that have largely merged with
each other. While there is a "lull" in investment in mobile data infrastructure
technology, since there was a big wave of investment already, demand will
increase as mobile workers and consumers demand access to information from
anywhere. The stock has fallen this year, but "if you are patient, as we are,
you can look forward to the next wave that will ensure inevitably," she says.

China Mobile (ADR), CHL: Thursday's close $52.78. A leading provider of mobile
telecom services in mainland China and Hong Kong.

Why she likes it: China Mobile is already larger than Verizon, AT&T, Sprint and
T-Mobile combined. It has 66% market share in China with 800million subscribers.
Currently, customers in China are only paying about $10 a month for telecom
services, vs.  $60 in the U.S. Expect Chinese consumers to demand faster speeds
and more data, which will likely boost the amount they're willing to pay.
Chinese consumers are still shifting, too, to smartphones which will increase
demands for data telecom services. "In China, you're still migrating towards
smartphone penetration. So that's another opportunity," she says.

Telefonica Deutschland, DB:O2D: Thursday's close 3.98. A telecommunication
service in Germany that offers wireless and hardwired communications services to
consumers and businesses.

Why she likes it: European regulators have been more permissive about mergers in
the industry, which is a potential win for this major company. In the U.S.,
there are four major wireless carriers for a population roughly equal to Europe.
Yet, in Europe, each country has three of four telecom players. "It is a market
that is crying for market consolidation," she says. With fewer companies, prices
for telecom services should rise. Currently, consumers can get a decent wireless
plan for 5 euros, which could rise if there are fewer competitors and consumers
use wireless more.

Gavin Baker portfolio manager at Fidelity OTC Fund

Alphabet, GOOGL: Thursday's close $815.65. A leading online advertising company
with interests in mobile technology, cloud software and the Google search
engine.

Why he likes it: The company's large database on consumer behavior used for
online advertising paired with viewing consumption on YouTube and its mobile
technology allow it to be a winner in the artificial intelligence era. The
company's hand with the Android mobile operating system also puts it in a
position of strength. "If anyone is going to bring us the Star Trek computer
which can answer any question or do any task ... I think it's Google," he says.

Activision Blizzard, ATVI: Thursday's close $36.99. A top publisher of video
games for computers, video game consoles and mobile including titles like Candy
Crush Saga and Call of Duty.

Why he likes it: Video-game companies are winning as technology used in gaming
devices continues to improve. Video game companies' ability to sell directly to
consumers with app stores and downloads -- rather through physical retailers --
boosts profitability and allows them to sell add-on features over time to extend
the lure of the game. Electronic sports competitions draw many gamers and
customers who want to watch the professionals play. Games like "Call of Duty,
Overwatch and Battlefield are the new NFL, NBA and Major League Baseball," he
says. Call of Duty and Overwatch are both published by Activision, while
Battlefield is owned by Electronic Arts.

Chipotle Mexican Grill: CMG. Thursday's close $382.85. A fast-casual Mexican
food chain operating more than 2,000 locations.

Why he likes it: The company's stock and customer traffic have taken a hit
following food safety scares. But those concerns will pass, as has been the case
with other restaurants. "Lots of restaurants all over the world have been
through food safety scares, and there's a very predictable pattern for how they
... recover," he says. Adjusted for stock buybacks, the company's peak profit
was $21 a share in the 12 months ended in the third quarter of 2015. Now the
company is earning about $3 a share annually. Profits are hurt by investments in
food safety and lower customer visits. But Baker is looking for better digital
marketing and mobile payments to boost results.

Tesla, TSLA: Thursday's close $197.58. A seller of electric cars as well as
power storage devices and solar generation equipment.

Why he likes it: Tesla is often seen as just an electric car company, but "it's
just the world's best car company," he says. Tesla competes with BMW, Mercedes,
Lexus, Porsche and Audi for luxury car buyers and has the top market share in
that segment in the U.S., he says. Tesla's Model S, a four-year-old car, sold
better than the new BMW 7 Series by two to one, he says. Tesla's cars are also
designed so users can upgrade them, for instance, once self-driving cars become
approved, he says. New models will have lower price points, making it a choice
for lower-end markets.

Footnote: These are not recommendations to buy or sell, but rather, top stocks
that Baker owned in the Fidelity OTC fund as of Oct.31.

David Kostin chief U.S. equity strategist at Goldman Sachs

Bank of America, BAC: Thursday's close $23.16. A global U.S.-based bank with
consumer banking, wealth management, global market and other services.

Why he likes it: Of all the U.S. banks, Bank of America is the most exposed to
interest rates, so will benefit most from the rising in interest rates, Kostin
says. The bank is also focused on reducing corporate spending and "would be a
big beneficiary of reduced financial regulation," he says. Goldman thinks the
stock could be worth $24 a share.

Discover Financial Services, DFS: Thursday's close $72.47. A banking and
payments service based in the U.S. that offers credit cards as well as student
loans and banking products.

Why he likes it: Discover is another example of a bank that could benefit
disproportionately from higher interest rates. Meanwhile, the company's
relatively high 37% tax rate puts it in a good position to benefit from any
coming cut in the corporate tax rate with the new president. Goldman thinks the
stock could be worth $75 a share.

Netflix, NFLX: Thursday's close $125. The company streams video content such as
movies and TV shows to subscribers in the U.S. and internationally.

Why he likes it: Netflix has already been growing by 25% a year as more
consumers shift their video viewing to the online service. "It's a ... shift of
the way people consume media and watch television," he says. The company has
also spent heavily to create its own unique content that can't be found on
competing networks. The risk is that Netflix is hardly an undiscovered stock and
is pricey.

Costco, COST: Thursday's close $160.11. Operates retail warehouses with both
branded and private-label products in groceries, electronics, apparel and other
categories.

Why he likes it: Given the President-elect's focus on boosting U.S. growth
rates, Goldman Sachs is focused on U.S.-centric companies. "About 73% of the
revenue (are from) here domestically," he says. The company should also be able
to start boosting the membership fees. Costco also has less sensitivity to
rising labor costs than some of its competition. Goldman sees the stock worth
$186 a share in the next 12 months.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Photos by Robert Deutsch, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             483 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Electors' lawyer: Founding Fathers 'anticipated' Trump;
37 would have to switch votes to reverse the results

BYLINE: Heidi M. Przybyla, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 735 words


There may be more than a few dissenters when the Electoral College meets Monday
-- though not enough to deny Donald Trump the presidency.

That's according to R.J. Lyman, the lawyer quietly advising a couple dozen
Republican electors -- all deliberating individually -- about their right to
break with their states' majority vote to oppose Trump.

It's the last gasp of the never-Trump movement, and it faces long odds. The 538
members of the Electoral College meet in their state capitals on Dec. 19 to cast
their votes for president.

Trump dismisses the effort and insists he won by the rules.

Yet a central purpose of Electoral College is to serve as a check on an
electorate that could be duped by an unqualified or ethically compromised
candidate, says Lyman. If the Founding Fathers wanted a simple points system,
they wouldn't have given the final say to a jury of "qualified" human beings,
Lyman said in his first newspaper interview since beginning the consultations
shortly after the Nov. 8 election.

"Spoiler alert: in 1789 they anticipated 2016," said Lyman, a longtime friend
and supporter of former GOP Massachusetts governor Bill Weld, who was the vice
presidential nominee of the Libertarian Party. "They (electors) have to decide
whether, in Hamilton's words, the candidate to whom you are pledged is fit for
office," he said. Harvard law professor Lawrence Lessig also is providing legal
assistance to potential "faithless electors." He estimates as many as 20
electors could flip.

It's the final hours of a broad effort to appeal to GOP electors that includes a
separate web of Democrat-leaning activist groups pressuring electors.

Lyman is seeking to inform electors about their constitutional role at a
critical moment in the nation's history: the blessing of the nation's first
president-elect with no government or military experience who may face
significant conflicts of interest in the White House due to his business empire.

Adding to the swirl of considerations are reports of Russian interference in the
U.S. election.

"I'm not trying to undermine the legitimacy of Donald Trump's ascendancy to the
presidency. I am trying to make sure our institutions function the way they are
supposed to," Lyman said.

The framers of the Constitution created a pause of more than a month between the
election and the Dec. 19 meeting of electors to give the "men most capable of
analyzing the qualities" of the incoming president time to deliberate outside
the hyperpartisan rancor of a campaign, he said.

"They hold a constitutionally important obligation and every single one I've
spoken with has understood that issue and that there's reason for them not
simply to follow the majority vote," said Lyman.

The effort seems unlikely to succeed.

Trump won with 306 electoral votes, with 270 needed, so 37 Republican electors
would need to flip their votes. Just one GOP elector, Chris Suprun of Texas, has
publicly said he'd vote against Trump. The alternative to Trump, Ohio Gov. John
Kasich, has told electors not to vote for him. Even if there were a mass
defection, the matter would go to the Republican-led House of Representatives,
which is unlikely to override their party's president.

Further, the Republican National Committee has been conducting a parallel whip
effort to ensure electors stick to the plan to vote for Trump -- as opposed to
Lyman, who describes his effort as educational and says it does not include
regular contact with and pressure on the electors.

In private conversations, many have expressed a major concern, said Lyman: fear
of legal retribution.

According to the Constitution, states are free to allocate electoral votes as
they see fit. It was only in the 19th century that states acted to grant their
votes on a winner-take-all system. Of the 29 states with "faithless electors'
laws," only four of them has a specified penalty, said Lyman.

"A number of them are concerned about lawsuits, suing them personally, whether
it's the state party or the presumptive president-elect or his team. These
aren't rich people," said Lyman, who is coordinating a legal defense fund.

"It's a material amount of money" in the fund to cover legal expenses, he
assured.

More than 4.8 million people have signed a change.org petition calling on
"Conscientious Electors" to vote  for Clinton. Websites have compiled electors'
email addresses, and more than 193,750 people have used asktheelectors.org.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             484 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Trump's vow to undo Obama rules? Not so fast;
Reversing legislation can take time and cost political capital

BYLINE: Ledyard King, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 764 words


President-elect Donald Trump campaigned on a vow to repeal what he claims are
job-killing federal regulations, including rules limiting power plant emissions,
protecting rivers and streams, and preventing banks from reckless lending.

Easier said than done.

The same deliberate process used to enact the Clean Power Plant rule, the
"waters of the U.S." Clean Water Rule, or regulations under the Dodd-Frank law
designed to clamp down on Wall Street usually requires the same long slog to
undo them, making quick repeal unattainable.

In general, rule changes originate from the agencies who must offer a legal,
scientific or other legitimate reason in defense of the proposed change, and
solicit public comments first before a new rule or its repeal can take effect.
In most cases, the final rule may not become effective until at least 30 days
after its publication in the Federal Register.

"The process is laborious, but that shouldn't stop every agency head from
setting it in motion," Andy Koenig, vice president of policy at the
Koch-affiliated Freedom Partners Chamber of Commerce, wrote in a recent column
on the group's website. "The very fact that it is so time-consuming makes it
essential for agencies to start the process immediately."

But a Republican president and a compliant Congress controlled by Republicans
can still do quite a bit in short order to block a host of proposed regulations
or reverse rules that were recently implemented. Overall, critics say
regulations pose a $4 trillion drag on to the U.S. economy every year, according
to some estimates, though agencies also design rules to maximize economic
benefits.

Stakeholders have been weighing in about the rules they'd like to see tossed.

Among them is the House Freedom Caucus, the hard-right faction of House
lawmakers who have clashed with congressional leaders in recent years. The group
Wednesday asked the incoming Trump administration to jettison 227 rules its
members view as burdensome, costly or unworkable, including ones setting
nutrition standards for school lunches, requiring certain animal and plant
inspections, and development of alternative fuels.

Here's what Trump and Congress can do:

Incoming presidents can prevent regulations that have yet to be finalized from
ever taking effect.

It's standard practice for a new administration to freeze any regulations that
are in the pipeline until the incoming regime can review them, said Jerry Ellig,
senior research fellow at George Mason University's Mercatus Center.

President Obama did just than when he came into office in 2009, as did his
predecessors.

"If it's something that the current administration has finished and sent to the
Federal Register but it isn't published before Inauguration Day, then it's easy
for a new administration to pull those rules back," he said.

Many could still go forward after the review is complete.

Congress has a limited window by which it can undo rules with a simple majority
vote that can't be filibustered.

Such "resolutions of disapproval" must be passed and signed within 60
legislative days from their publication in the federal register and their
insertion into the Congressional Record.

Under the Congressional Review Act, agencies must report on their rulemaking
activities to Congress and provide lawmakers a legislative roadmap to overturn
those rules if they oppose them, according to the Congressional Research
Service.

The Mercatus Center lists 172 Obama administration rules adopted since June 9
that could be subject to the review act. They include rules on implementing
school wellness policies, regulating municipal solid waste landfills and food
labeling guidelines.

But the incoming Congress will have to be picky because the law requires that
rule reversals can only be done one at a time. With all the other priorities
facing them, there's may not be much floor time for wholesale regulatory
rollback, Ellig said.

That hurdle helps explain why the Congressional Review Act has been used only
once since it became law 20 years ago. In 2001, Congress and the George W. Bush
administration overturned a Clinton administration rule setting an ergonomics
standard for the workplace.

Agencies can decide not to enforce certain regulations because they're focused
on other priorities. Or the Trump administration could choose to stop defending
rules if they are the subject of a court challenge.

That passive approach "is a pretty easy way to undermine laws that are already
around and public protections that already exist," said Lisa Gilbert, director
of Public Citizen's Congress Watch, a watchdog group.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Keith Srakocic, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             485 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Facebook takes serious aim at fake news

BYLINE: Jessica Guynn, @jguynn, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 628 words


Facebook is taking steps to weed out fake news and hoaxes, addressing the
growing controversy over its role in the spread of misinformation on the
Internet that sharpened political divisions and inflamed discourse during the
presidential election.

The giant social network said Thursday it plans to make it easier to report a
hoax and for fact-checking organizations to flag fake articles. It's also
removing financial incentives for spammers and plans to pay closer attention to
other signals, such as which articles Facebook users read but then don't share.
Last month, Facebook barred fake news sites from using its ad-selling services.

"We believe in giving people a voice and that we cannot become arbiters of truth
ourselves, so we're approaching this problem carefully," Adam Mosseri, vice
president of product management, said in a blog post.

Facebook took heat after the election for not doing enough to remove fake news
reports, such as a widely shared but erroneous article claiming Pope Francis
endorsing Donald Trump. Some 170million people in North America use Facebook
every day. Nearly half of all adults in the U.S. say they get their news from
Facebook.

BuzzFeed News found that people who say they rely on Facebook as a major source
of news were more likely to believe politically slanted fake news stories. An
earlier BuzzFeed News analysis found that top-performing fake news articles on
the election generated more engagement on Facebook than articles from major news
outlets in the last months of the presidential campaign.

Fake news creates significant public confusion about current events with nearly
one-fourth of Americans saying they have shared a fake news story, according to
a Pew Research Center survey.

While saying it was "extremely unlikely" that phony stories shared on Facebook
changed the election outcome, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said last month that
work had begun to help the nearly 1.8 billion users of the social-media service
"flag fake news and hoaxes."

City University of New York journalism professor Jeff Jarvis says he's pleased
to see Facebook take  fake news seriously. There's more that Facebook will need
to do to eradicate fake news from the platform but, he says, it's "headed in the
right direction."

Facebook is reaching out to users in those crucial moments in which they are
deciding whether to share an article, Jarvis says, and that will improve the
experience of Facebook, with fewer opportunities to be fooled by fake news and
fewer fake news articles flowing through the News Feed.

"It's a fairly crappy experience to go in and see ridiculously stupid lies in
your feed. Some people say people want to believe what they want to believe. I'm
not so cynical about mankind. I actually believe that people want to be correct
given the opportunity to be correct," Jarvis said.

Facebook says it will now make it easier to report fake news. "We've relied
heavily on our community for help on this issue, and this can help us detect
more fake news," Mosseri said. To flag a fake news article, users will be able
to click on the upper right hand corner of a post.

News articles flagged by users will be sent to third-party fact-checking
organizations that are part of Poynter's International Fact Checking Network,
Facebook says. If the article is identified as fake by the fact-checking
organizations, it will get flagged as "disputed" and there will be a link to an
article explaining why. Disputed stories will  get pushed down in News Feed.

"It will still be possible to share these stories, but you will see a warning
that the story has been disputed as you share," Mosseri said.

Also, Facebook says it's going to remove the financial incentives for spammers.
Fake news sites lure people from Facebook to show them ads.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             486 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

$253,088 a month nest egg? Nice to be CEO;
New report shows retirement chasm

BYLINE: Kevin McCoy, @kmccoynyc, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 678 words


One hundred U.S. CEOs have company retirement funds collectively worth
$4.7billion, a total equal to the retirement savings of the 41% of U.S. families
with the smallest reserves for their golden years, according to a new report.

The gap between CEO retirement packages and the benefits of ordinary Americans
is wide and could expand if President-elect Donald Trump's tax reforms are
enacted, according to the Institute for Policy Studies, a research center that
studies executive compensation.

The nest eggs of those chief executives are large enough to generate an average
$253,088 in monthly retirement payments for the rest of their lives, the report
said.

The 100 CEOs studied have retirement funds equal to the entire retirement
savings of 44% of white working class households, 59% of African-American
families, 75% of Latino families and 44% of female-headed households, the
Institute found.

If Trump's general plan to cut the U.S. top marginal tax rate from the current
39.6% to 33%, Fortune 500 company CEOs would save an estimated $196million in
what they'd otherwise owe in taxes on any tax-deferred funds they withdraw, the
report, released Thursday, calculated.

"White working class families, families of color, and female-headed households
share common worries about whether they'll be able to afford to retire and
whether their golden years will be tarnished by financial stress," said the
report, entitled A Tale of Two Retirements. "Our country's real retirement
divide is between those at the top of corporate America and nearly all the rest
of us."

The Business Roundtable, an association of CEOs from leading U.S. corporations,
addressed executive compensation issues in a 2007 commentary.

It said the benefits should be decided by independent directors, be "closely
aligned with the long-term interests of shareholders and with corporate goals
and strategies" and "include significant performance-based criteria."

The Institute for Policy Studies report takes a broader societal view, focusing
on increasing economic inequality in the U.S. Highlights include compensation
for  10 CEOs with the largest retirement funds.

Glenn Renwick, who retired this year as CEO of the Progressive group of
insurance companies, topped the list with more than $194million in retirement
assets, the report showed.

Progressive's 2016 proxy report to shareholders said compensation awards to
Renwick and other executive officers "were weighted heavily towards
performance-based annual cash bonuses and, generally, longer-term equity
awards," a system the company said supports "a strong pay-for-performance
linkage" and "appropriately align(s) the interests of our named executive
officers with those of our shareholders."

However, the retirement gap doesn't necessarily stem from top executives working
harder or making wiser investments than others, the report said. Instead, it
characterized the chasm as "one more example of rule-rigging in favor of the 1%"
who is top of the U.S. economic ladder:

Ordinary workers face government caps on the amount of pre-tax income they can
channel to tax-deferred retirement plans, such as 401(k) accounts. But most
Fortune 500 firms create unlimited tax-deferred compensation accounts for their
top executives.

CEO compensation is often linked to a company's stock value, so the executives
have an incentive to boost the firm's bottom line. Reaching that goal may
include cutting employee retirement benefits.

The U.S. tax code allows firms to deduct unlimited amounts of executive
compensation from their corporate taxes if the benefits are "performance based."

The report calls for eliminating tax-deferred compensation plans for corporate
executives, canceling tax breaks for companies that increase employee retirement
insecurity and scrapping the provision that allows unlimited corporate tax
deductions for executive pay.

Additionally, the report recommends requiring highly paid CEOs to pay more for
their share of Social Security benefits, safeguarding public pensions and
supporting the creation of universal state-run pension plans.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             487 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

Coach takes Packers' pulse;
McCarthy: Team can learn from outside criticism

BYLINE: Tom Pelissero, tpelissero@usatoday.com, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 863 words


Mike McCarthy isn't on social media. But the Green Bay Packers coach knows his
players are, so he makes sure he's aware of anything that could affect the
locker room -- and there was plenty a few weeks ago.

Depleted by injuries on defense and unusually uneven on offense, the Packers
were on the brink of irrelevance in the NFC playoff race at 4-6, and one swipe
on a smartphone revealed every report, rumor and recommendation: McCarthy's on
the hot seat! His relationship with star quarterback Aaron Rodgers is falling
apart! The roster has been exposed! Blow it up!

The vitriol was unlike anything McCarthy recalls in 11years building one of the
NFL's most successful programs (Brett Favre's un-retirement saga in 2008
included). And the one thing that really bothered McCarthy was knowing his
players kept having to answer for criticisms directed elsewhere, which took a
toll.

"The negativity -- frankly, I think it's a good thing to have, because you can
grow," McCarthy told USA TODAY Sports a day after the Packers improved to 7-6 by
blowing out the talented Seattle Seahawks at Lambeau Field. "Whether you like it
or not, the negatives that are said about you, you have to look at them and
identify them as perception or opinion or agenda-driven opinion (or) reality.

"Let's be real: Some of them are real. Some -- too many of them -- are not. But
you need to look at those and be honest about your operation and learn from it.
I like that challenge. I like the conflict of it. I didn't like the effect it
was having on our team, but I'm proud of their resiliency and just their
approach. Hey, we haven't accomplished (expletive) yet. We've won three games.
But the way they've kept going through that period is exactly what you're
looking for."

Messaging is a complicated and important issue in the current NFL. There is a
"post-truth" aspect to the way the league is covered and consumed, with appeals
to emotion and personal belief often more impactful than objective facts. The
social media echo chamber can amplify the sense that a situation is approaching
critical mass.

Whether it's the Los Angeles Rams seeing that coach Jeff Fisher's days could be
numbered amid dysfunction (they were) or the Buffalo Bills hearing that Rex Ryan
could be fired and Tyrod Taylor benched with another loss (they weren't) or the
Packers reading this could be McCarthy's last stand (highly unlikely), it's
human nature to react. The league is younger than ever, meaning the average NFL
player is likely getting a lot of "screen time." The same goes for fans, who now
have a direct way to voice their frustration through portals such as Twitter.

"It's a lot easier for the outside noise to creep into the locker room nowadays
with technology," Packers left tackle David Bakhtiari said.

Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones' ramblings on scenarios for a quarterback
change probably won't amount to anything. When the locker room opened to the
media Thursday, though, star rookie Dak Prescott was among those scrolling
through their phones. Odds are players see the speculation, and veterans such as
tight end Jason Witten have seen those things affect people.

"This is the Dallas Cowboys. One thing's said, and it's instant," Witten said.
"Sometimes, you have to deal with that clutter that probably didn't exist 10,
12, 14 years ago."

The media have a duty to follow up on story lines, and McCarthy gets that. He
just doesn't want to let negativity become the message of his team, which is why
he regularly asks Packers director of public relations Jason Wahlers not only
what's being said but also how it might affect individuals.

At the low point, Bakhtiari said, McCarthy kept his message simple: "It's all
about us." Wide receiver Randall Cobb said the Packers were "very proactive in
the locker room, making sure we stuck together, and whatever it was that we saw,
making sure it was cleared up between whoever they tried to put against each
other."

McCarthy doesn't feel he needs to justify his "close relationship" with Rodgers,
the two-time NFL MVP who has faced scrutiny over everything from his play to his
leadership to his personal life. That part of the media landscape is only
intensifying, and McCarthy plans to ask some of his own questions in the
offseason as he studies the program: Why are players having to answer all these
questions? Are they being messaged properly? Can the team help?

McCarthy also wants to analyze how the Packers interact with their fans, making
sure they're expressing the type of players and locker room they have. Because
when you have success like they've had under McCarthy, each win can start to be
seen as merely meeting expectations and each loss as grounds for termination,
even when you're stuck playing non-stop 2-shell coverage with third-string
cornerbacks.

Completing this comeback "definitely" would mean more, McCarthy said, mostly
because of what it would say about his players' commitment to his plan.

He's a believer that cultures are always either improving or deflating ... if
not at the rate some make it appear.

"If my job's going to be judged off of what goes on in the social media world,"
McCarthy said, "then I think we're all in trouble."

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Jeff Hanisch, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             488 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

Obama vows to strike back at Russia over interference

BYLINE: Gregory Korte, USATODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 355 words


President Obama promised to retaliate against Russia for its attempts to
undermine the U.S. elections process, saying that the United States would take
action "at a time and place of our own choosing."

That threat came in an interview with National Public Radio to be broadcast
Friday morning. And he said the response may not be obvious. "Some of it may be
explicit and publicized; some of it may not be," he said.

The remarks were the strongest language yet from Obama since the intelligence
community concluded in October that the hacking of email accounts belonging to
the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton campaign officials was
authorized by "Russia's senior-most officials."

That, the White House has suggested, means that Russian President Vladimir
Putinhimself directed the attacks. Press secretary Josh Earnest said Thursday
that it was "pretty obvious that they were referring to the senior-most
government official in Russia."

"So there's no subtlety. There's no security clearance required to figure out
what happened," Earnest said.

The allegations of Russian interference were raised during the campaign that
ultimately led to Republican Donald Trump's election as president. But the issue
re-erupted last week after Obama ordered an intelligence review of malicious
cyber activity by foreign powers in the last three presidential elections. That
review is expected to be completed before Jan. 20, when Obama will formally turn
over power to Trump on Inauguration Day.

Obama said he could't put the sole blame for Clinton's loss on the emails, which
were released on Wikileaks and similar websites. But he said they were one
factor. "There's no doubt that it contributed to an atmosphere in which the only
focus for weeks at a time, months at a time were Hillary's emails, the Clinton
Foundation, political gossip surrounding the DNC," he told NPR.

That atmosphere benefited Trump, Obama said -- but he made clear that he was not
suggesting that Trump himself was actively involved. "They understood what
everybody else understood, which was that this was not good for Hillary
Clinton's campaign," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo epa

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             489 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

BRADY TAKES LEAD IN RACE FOR MVP AWARD

BYLINE: Nate Davis, @bynatedavis, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 637 words


From Week 1 through Week 17, USA TODAY Sports' NFL staff will be handicapping
the race for league MVP. A first-place vote is worth five points, a second-place
vote is worth three and a third-place vote is worth one.

Our MVP tracker through Week 14's games:

1. QB Tom Brady, New England Patriots (27 points): Has he finally done enough to
overcome his four-game Deflategate suspension and earn a third MVP award? If
Brady wins, he'd be the first MVP to play fewer than 13games. It helped his case
to pass for 406 yards and three touchdowns against the Baltimore Ravens, who no
longer own the top-ranked defense after being skewered by Brady. The Patriots
star's 113.6 passer rating leads the league, and his 22-to-2 TD
pass-to-interception ratio is shaping up as a personal best. Last week: 3.

2. QB Derek Carr, Oakland Raiders (13 points): An abysmal night at the Kansas
City Chiefs -- Carr's 49.1 passer rating was a career low -- ends his two-week
run in the top spot. But one poor showing doesn't erase a season's worth of
clutch play, production and toughness. And with one more victory, Carr will help
Oakland end a 14-year playoff drought, and an AFC West title and perhaps even a
first-round bye remain within reach. Last week: 1.

3. RB Ezekiel Elliott, Dallas Cowboys (8 points): The impressive rookie is
cruising to the league rushing title, with his 1,392 yards being 257 more than
his nearest competitor. However, Elliott wasn't on the field for the final seven
plays of the Week 14 loss to the New York Giants, not a great visual for an MVP
campaign. Still, his first 100-yard effort in a month keeps him in the
conversation and adds credence to Elliott's belief that he will not be stopped
by the proverbial rookie wall. Last week: 2.

4. QB Aaron Rodgers, Green Bay Packers (4 points): It would appear vintage
Rodgers has returned along with the Packers, whose three-game winning streak has
returned them to relevance. Seven of Rodgers' league-high 32 TD passes have come
during this hot stretch. He hasn't been picked off since Nov. 13, and his passer
rating has been at least 108.9 over the last four games. And dominating the
Seattle Seahawks defense Sunday despite a calf injury constituted his most
impressive performance of 2016. Last week: unranked.

T5. RB Le'Veon Bell, Pittsburgh Steelers (3 points): He has carried the Steelers
during a four-game roll that has launched them back atop the AFC North. Bell has
rushed for 620 yards during that span, including a team-record 236 Sunday, and
is averaging better than 200 yards from scrimmage. His total of 1,616 yards from
scrimmage is the most in a player's first 10 games during the Super Bowl era.
Only legendary Jim Brown in 1963 had a better start. But like Brady, Bell could
struggle to overcome the stigma of a suspension. Last week: Unranked.

T5. QB Dak Prescott, Cowboys (3 points): He'd probably have more support if he
didn't have to play the Giants. But New York has been the rookie's Kryptonite,
and Prescott turned in, by far, his worst performance (two interceptions, 45.4
passer rating) in Sunday's defeat. He could still produce the greatest season
ever by a rookie quarterback, but that might not be enough to earn him MVP
honors. Last week: 4.

T5. QB Matthew Stafford, Detroit Lions (3 points): Another week, another
fourth-quarterback comeback engineered by Stafford -- that's a single-season
record eight if you're counting. His 7-yard TD run was enough to beat the
Chicago Bears on a day when he was impeded by a dislocated middle finger on his
throwing hand. Stafford's numbers (3,447 yards, 22 TD passes, seven
interceptions, 97.8 passer rating) aren't eye-popping in this age of advanced
passing, but his clutch factor and the chance to lead Detroit to its first
division title since 1993 make him a compelling contender. Last week: 5.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Bob DeChiara, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             490 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

U.S. women's hockey team relishes games vs. Canada

BYLINE: Roxanna Scott, @roxscott, USA TODAY Sports

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 645 words


With the Olympic tournament about 14 months away, the U.S. women's hockey team
has a singular goal.

The Americans want Olympic gold in Pyeongchang, and they know they'll need to
beat Canada to get there.

Canada has beaten the USA to win the last two  Olympic gold medals. Since the
2014 Sochi Games, the Americans have won the last two world championships,
beating their Northern rivals for both golds.

In the next four days, the nations will play each other twice, starting Saturday
in Plymouth, Mich., at 4:30 p.m. ET (NBC Sports Network). Monday, they play
again in Sarnia, Ontario.

For forward Hilary Knight, a two-time Olympic silver medalist, playing Canada
takes on significance, even when there are no medals up for grabs.

"Every game is a process. We're not going to know who we play necessarily in the
Olympics," Knight said. "Hopefully we'll get to play (Canada) twice (in the
Olympic tournament). You never know how the tournament unfolds. ... I think the
end goal is to win a gold medal against whoever we're playing. But right now, on
the docket for us it's Canada, and that's part of the process of getting
ourselves to the gold medal game."

Knight is one of 14 players from the 2014 Olympic team in camp this week in
Plymouth. The team is coming off winning the Four Nations Cup last month in
Finland, where the Americans lost to Canada 3-2 and on the following day beat
the same team 5-3 to win the tournament championship.

With 37 players in camp, the series with Canada will give Reagan Carey, USA
Hockey's director of women's hockey, time to evaluate talent before the world
championships, which begin March 31. The roster will be cut to 23 players. It's
the biggest tournament before the 2018 Olympics and the fourth time the USA will
host worlds, this time in Plymouth.

"As we go into the U.S.-Canada game, it certainly gives us an immediate
opportunity to see how everybody stacks up in our own player pool and also from
team to team," Carey said. "It's a unique opportunity; it's one we don't
typically have in the middle of the season."

Many U.S. players are on break from their National Women's Hockey League teams
this month. Knight plays for the Boston Pride along with Kacey Bellamy, Alex
Carpenter, Brianna Decker, Meghan Duggan, Zoe Hickel, Gigi Marvin and Amanda
Pelkey. All are in Plymouth training this week.

The player pool for selecting world championship and Olympic teams is deeper
than ever, Carey says. This year she has 24 post-grad players in the system. "In
2010 we maybe would have nine or 10 post-grad players," Carey said. "So we've
more than doubled that number. ... (For college players) those spots are more
limited than they used to be. It just makes the competitive environment and the
competitiveness of our player pool increase exponentially."

One of the reasons players such as Knight and goalie Alex Rigsby look forward to
playing Canada so much is because they have limited games for competition.

Rigsby has played one game this season with the Minnesota Whitecaps, an
independent team, but she lives and trains in Madison, Wis., and works with a
goalie coach and strength coach.

The 24-year-old posted a 1-0 victory against Canada in the 2016 world
championships in April, a game the USA won in overtime.

"I prepare all year and make sure that I trust my training, that I'm prepared
going into these camps and tournaments ... and never take my foot off the
pedal," said Rigsby, who holds the career save record (2,530) for the University
of Wisconsin. "I just want to continue to prove that I deserve to have an
opportunity to play in the big games."

She was the last goalie cut from the 2014 Olympic team that won silver in Sochi.
Like Knight, Rigsby has no trouble getting up for games against the team's
biggest rivals.

"Being able to play them, you never want to take it for granted," Rigsby said.
"Every opportunity is awesome."

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Scott Rovak, USA TODAY Sports

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             491 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Don't count on rogue electors to reverse the election result

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 525 words


Ever since the election, Republican members of the Electoral College have been
inundated with emails, personal letters, open letters and celebrity videos
calling on them, in essence, to bolt from Donald Trump when the electors gather
Monday in each state to cast votes for the next president.

The last ditch effort to block Trump is understandable, given the lack of
fitness he displayed while campaigning for the presidency and his cavalier
post-election treatment of everything from business conflicts of interest to
intelligence reports of Russian hacking. Nevertheless, for the electors to upend
the election results would have a number of destabilizing consequences.

For one thing, the dump-Trump effort is like a Hail Mary pass in football:
extremely unlikely to succeed. To become president, a candidate needs at least
270 electoral votes; Trump ended up with 306 and Hillary Clinton with 232.
There's no way that more than three dozen Republican electors are going to
switch their votes to Clinton and put a Democrat in the White House.

And what if 37 Republican electors simply refuse to vote for Trump, cutting his
total down to 269, one vote short of a majority? Under the Constitution, this
would throw the election to the House of Representatives, where Republicans hold
a majority and in all probability would elect Trump anyway.

In theory, the House could elect another Republican, a supposed "consensus
candidate." If that happened, a mass revolt would undoubtedly ensue as the votes
of nearly 63 million Trump supporters were tossed aside.

Yes, the Founders envisioned the Electoral College partly as a check on a pure
democracy. The electors were seen as wise people -- all of them property-owning
white men back then -- who could prevent the presidency from falling to a man
not "endowed with the requisite qualifications." But throughout American
history, even in the rare cases where the winner of a majority of electoral
votes has failed to capture the popular vote, the Electoral College has never
taken it upon itself to change the course of the election.

Further, the Founders' vision has given way to political change. Today's
electors are loyal party regulars with no public recognition and no popular
mandate except to rubber-stamp the outcome in their  states. In 29 states, in
fact, they are bound by law to vote for the candidate who wins their state.
While these laws have never been tested in court and some legal scholars believe
they wouldn't hold up, rogue electors would likely throw the fate of the
presidency into an extended period of uncertainly amid a gaggle of lawsuits.

Fundamentally, America is not a place where you change the rules after the game
is over. Both major-party candidates campaigned believing their goal was winning
enough states to amass a majority of 270 electoral votes. Voters cast their
ballots in the belief that the election would be decided the way elections have
been for decades. For faithless electors to upend the results this time would
set a precedent for the next election and the election after that, contests in
which the Election Day victor might one day be a controversial Democrat.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Pat Wellenbach, 2008 AP photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             492 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Taylor Swift and Zayn unite for 'I Don't Wanna Live Forever'

BYLINE: Andrea Mandell

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 86 words


As if Taylor Swift would end 2016 without sending us new music. The pop star
dropped a surprise  single, I Don't Wanna Live Forever, with Zayn Malik -- who
happens to be the boyfriend of her BFF, Gigi Hadid. It's a welcome new track
from Swift, who has kept her new music to a minimum since her previous album,
1989, dropped in late 2014. The song is featured on the soundtrack for Fifty
Shades Darker, adding to the franchise's tradition of featuring major pop
artists on its soundracks.  Darker hits theaters Feb. 10.


LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Swift by Gary Miller, Filmmagic
Zayn by Mike Windle, Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LISTEN UP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             493 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

THE PLAYLIST

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 5D

LENGTH: 284 words


America's Got Talent winner Grace VanderWaal is having a cheery holiday season.
The 12-year-old singer's new EP, Perfectly Imperfect, landed at No. 9 on the
Billboard 200 chart this week, and she heads back to AGT  Monday for the show's
Holiday Spectacular special. Ahead of the holidays, VanderWaal shared a playlist
of Christmas favorites with USA TODAY, from classic carols to contemporary pop
hits.

Frosty the Snowman

This is the first song that I posted on my YouTube channel and I will be
performing it on the America's Got Talent Holiday Special.

Jingle Bell Rock

Bobby Helms

A classic that I love performing around the holidays. It's a fun one! I just
performed it to my community at the local church.

Rockin' Around the Christmas Tree

Brenda Lee

My mom always plays this song on Christmas morning before my brother and sister
and I start digging into our gifts under the tree. What great memories this song
brings.

Silent Night

My church sings this song together on Christmas Eve. It's really amazing to hear
everyone sing together.

Rudolph the Red Nosed Reindeer

Gene Autry

This is where I learned all about Santa's reindeer names ... Dasher, Dancer,
Prancer, Vixen, Comet, Cupid, Donner and Blitzen ... and RUDOLPH!

Santa Claus is Coming to Town

This is a childhood staple, sung  every day in the month of December -- the big
guy is always watching ... even when you're sleeping.

It's the Most Wonderful Time of the Year

Andy Williams

To me this song symbolizes the start of the holidays for my family.

Happy

Pharrell Williams

This is so jolly and it works for anytime of the year, especially during the
holiday season.

White Christmas

Katy Perry

I love everything Katy Perry does -- and of course a white Christmas!

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Ashley Buenrosto

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LISTEN UP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             494 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Floodgates open on Cuba cruises

BYLINE: Gene Sloan

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 258 words


You'll soon be able to sail from the USA to Cuba with some of the best-known
cruise lines. Cruise giants Royal Caribbean and Norwegian will kick off sailings
from Florida to the island nation in April and May, respectively, after
receiving long-sought approvals from the Cuban government. Also adding sailings
from Florida during the first few months of the year will be smaller brands
Azamara Club Cruises, Oceania Cruises, Regent Seven Seas Cruises and Pearl Seas
Cruises.

Royal Caribbean will use its smallest ship, the 1,602-passenger Empress of the
Seas, for Cuba voyages. It'll sail a single cruise to Cuba from Miami in April
before re-positioning to Tampa as a base. Norwegian is tasking its
2,004-passenger, Miami-based Norwegian Sky to the sailings. Cuba's limited
infrastructure makes it difficult for bigger vessels to visit.

The new voyages to Cuba will be the first from established cruise brands in
decades. The only cruise vessel now sailing from the USA to Cuba is the
704-passenger Adonia, which flies the flag of Fathom, a little-known, one-ship
brand launched earlier this year by Carnival Corp. Adonia began bi-weekly
voyages to Cuba in May but soon will end the trips. Fathom has struggled to gain
traction with consumers, and Carnival Corp. announced last month that the brand
would shut down its cruise operations next spring.

The Cuba calls planned by the lines will provide an opportunity for
"people-to-people" exchanges between Americans and Cubans as allowed by U.S.
rules governing visits to Cuba, the companies have said.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Ramon Espinosa, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             495 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Give it up, Democrats, you look desperate

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 420 words


LETTERS

That President Obama would feign surprise that Russia may have tried to impact
the election reeks of political hypocrisy at best, or an attempt to discredit
President-elect Donald Trump at worst.

There are claims that Russians have hacked into every body of our government
during Obama's tenure in office and Obama has not made a strong enough attempt
to harden our cybersecurity. In fact, these accusations only highlight the
severity of Hillary Clinton's private, illegal server. What's the point of
cybersecurity if your employees weasel around it?

Once again, Clinton -- who publicly challenged Trump to accept the election
results when she was expected to win -- now seems to have her party looking for
ways to discredit Trump's victory. Obama has also committed the cardinal sin of
attempting to do the same to his successor. It's obvious the Democratic Party
has not internalized that the public sees through this behavior. No lesson
learned, nothing gained.

Shep Fargotstein

Memphis

FACEBOOK

Yeah, blame Russia for your loss, Democrats. Don't mention the fact that you had
one of the most disliked candidates in recent history. Add to that your
anti-police rhetoric and that's the reason you lost. Oh and don't forget when
you messed with Sen. Bernie Sanders during the primaries.

John Ruhl

We must audit the votes before Monday. Recounts justifying anomalies go beyond
the discrepancies in media exit polls. In fact, I think there's enough
circumstantial evidence of abnormalities in the ballots.

Naury Garcia Joaquin

Anybody can hack into a campaign account. But they can't hack local voting
machines machines from Russia!

Dan Gaw

This is beyond pathetic. Democrats are looking for someone to blame. This was
quite successful as very little of the actual contents were mentioned. Only
"Russia did it."

Bob Vavich

TWITTER

We asked our followers their thoughts about reports that Russia interfered with
the election and if it had an influence on voters.

Russia probably tried to disrupt our election. Donald Trump won fair and square.
It is possible to hold both views.

@BittmanSkip

It had tremendous impact on those voters who were suspicious of Hillary
Clinton's email fiasco. It's scary that Russia has so much influence.

@photos_by_vicky

Seems like a last minute Hail Mary to delegitimize the election results.

@falconjedd

Russia "interfered" by doing the journalistic work the press is supposed to do.

@JenkinsSkeeter

Whether Russia did or not, no difference on results.

@DebbyAJ

For more, follow @USATOpinion or #tellusatoday.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             496 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

THEY SAID WHAT? THE STARS' BEST QUOTES

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 182 words


"She never complained. That is one thing I took away from playing this
incredible woman. ... I don't complain about Hollywood. I don't say that they
don't do this for black women, and that and the third. I just keep working
because one day you look up and you're a Golden Globe winner. You're Academy
Award-nominated, but I couldn't get there by complaining." -- Taraji P. Henson
at the White House screening of 'Hidden Figures,' on playing NASA scientist
Katherine Johnson

CAUGHT IN THE ACT

Too sweet: On Thursday,

Helen Mirren and her husband, filmmaker Taylor Hackford, shared a hug on the red
carpet at the London premiere of Mirren's latest feature, 'Collateral Beauty.'

STYLE STAR

The fashion odds always seem to be in Jennifer Lawrence's favor -- and Wednesday
was no exception. The 'Hunger Games' star hit the Los Angeles premiere of her
new film, 'Passengers,' in a stunning strapless white gown from Dior featuring a
strappy bodice and a spotted tulle skirt.

IT'S YOUR BIRTHDAY WHO'S CELEBRATING TODAY

Benjamin Bratt is 53. Krysten Ritter is 35. Theo James is 32.

Compiled by Jaleesa M. Jones

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Wireimage
EPA

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LIFELINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             497 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

IN BRIEF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 361 words


explosive traces found on victims of EgyptAir Flight

Traces of explosives have been found on some of the victims of the EgyptAir
plane that crashed into the Mediterranean earlier this year, sparking a criminal
investigation into the incident, Egypt's Civil Aviation Ministry announced
Thursday.

The crash of Flight 804 from Paris to Cairo killed all 66 people aboard on May
19. Investigators have said alarms heard on the plane's recorders suggested
sensors detected smoke in a lavatory on the Airbus A320 and problems with the
cockpit windows. France opened a criminal investigation in June.--Bart Jansen

Travel havoc likely as winter storm moves east

Parts of Oregon could get a foot more of snow Thursday, as a winter storm that
already hammered Portland creeps across northern states this weekend from the
Rocky Mountains to the upper Great Lakes region, threatening blizzard conditions
in Denver and Chicago.

Thousands of vehicles ground to a halt in Portland on Wednesday, as they inched
across the city's snow-covered streets peppered with accidents. Vehicles
littered Interstate 5.

As the storm moves east, travel disruptions are expected at airports and on
roads across 1,200miles of the central United States. Through Saturday, the
heaviest snow will range from the Rocky Mountains across the northern Plains
states and the upper Midwest, forecasters said.

--Bart Jansen

COP'S Lawyer: Castile 'stoned' before shooting

The attorneys for the Minnesota police officer who fatally shot Philando Castile
called on a judge Thursday to dismiss manslaughter and other charges against
their client, arguing Castile was "stoned" and his actions contributed to his
death.

The push for dismissal of charges against St. Anthony police officer Jeronimo
Yanez comes as the Justice Department prepared Thursday to formally announce
plans to conduct a comprehensive review of the police department in suburban St.
Paul, which has faced nationwide scrutiny following the controversial incident
in July.

Yanez was charged last month with second-degree manslaughter and two counts of
dangerous discharge of a firearm for the fatal shooting of Castile following a
traffic stop.

--Aamer Madhani

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo JULIAN SMITH, EPA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             498 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Murdoch's Fox acquires U.K.'s Sky network

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 174 words


Billionaire media mogul Rupert Murdoch's 21st Century Fox is acquiring the
remaining 61% of the United Kingdom-based television and Internet provider that
it didn't own for nearly $15 billion, the company said Thursday. Fox will pay
10.75 pounds or $13.52 per share of Sky. Murdoch had attempted the buyout in
2011 but abandoned it amid News Corp.'s phone hacking and alleged bribery
scandal. The Brexit decision this summer, which drove down the pound's value,
made Sky shares a  bargain.

Price fixing alleged  for 6 Drug companies

Six drug companies  colluded in fixing artificially high prices for generic
medications, 20 U.S. states charged Thursday in the latest legal attack on
rising pharmaceutical costs. The alleged anticompetitive scheme was directed by
top-level executives and harmed U.S. consumers, the states charged in the civil
antitrust lawsuit filed in Connecticut federal court. State officials said their
investigation has found a broad range of alleged conspiracies that involve
numerous other generic drugs and competitors.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: MONEYLINE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             499 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Cuba flies into frenzy to sign trade contracts;
Country works to secure business deals in case Trump slams door

BYLINE: Alan Gomez, @alangomez, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 592 words


Two years into its new relationship with the United States, the Cuban government
is racing to sign as many contracts as possible with American businesses to
solidify the pact and convince the Trump administration not to overturn it.

The Cuban government has been slow to approve U.S. business proposals since
President Obama and Cuban President Raúl Castro announced Dec. 17, 2014, that
the countries would end more than 50 years of isolation. President-elect Donald
Trump vowed to undo some, or all, of that opening, so Cuban officials are
scrambling to cut deals and expand the pool of U.S. businesses that could lobby
the Trump administration to maintain relations.

Royal Caribbean and Norwegian cruise lines put in requests more than a year ago
to run ships to Cuba. They were approved last week. Google waited months for
Cuba's state-run telecommunication company to allow the California Internet
giant to store data on Cuban servers to speed up loading times for Google
products. Google CEO Eric Schmidt signed the deal Monday in Havana.

"After the election, all of a sudden, the Cuban side has seen that they ought to
do their part to make this opening irreversible, and they are trying to sign
deals that had been languishing," said Geoff Thale, program director of the
Washington Office on Latin America. "We're going to see a number of agreements
on the commercial side between now and Jan. 20."

Thale led a delegation of U.S. security analysts this week to meet with Cuban
justice officials about law enforcement cooperation between Washington and
Havana. Thale, who has taken multiple delegations to Cuba since the opening in
2014, said Cuba's Ministry of Foreign Relations has always been welcoming and
responsive. This time?

"They have been incredibly preoccupied trying to work their role in these
commercial agreements," he said.

That rush to ink deals has infuriated opponents of renewed relations with Cuba
who want Trump to strike down the economic openings until Cuba improves its
human rights and changes its communist government.

"It's not surprising, though it is sadly disappointing, that U.S. businesses are
rushing to sell out and finalize deals with a decrepit Castro regime in the
waning days of the Obama presidency instead of waiting for a day when Cuba will
be governed by the rule of law," said Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, R-Fla., a
Cuban-American among the most vocal critics of Obama's policy.

The last-minute push caps a busy two years of major changes in the relationship
between the longtime enemies. Embassies have reopened in Washington and Havana,
President Obama became the first sitting U.S. president to visit Cuba since
1928, and dozens of American businesses have worked to sign deals.

Ten U.S. airlines now fly regularly scheduled commercial flights to Cuba, U.S.
cruise ships dock in Havana, four U.S. cellular carriers offer roaming service
on the island and scores of U.S. businesspeople, politicians and curious
travelers have flooded the island.

But Obama has seen little success in two important areas: human rights and
Cuba's one-party political system. Cuba made 9,484 political arrests through
November 2016, higher than the annual figure each of the past six years,
according to the Havana-based Cuban Commission on Human Rights and National
Reconciliation.

"Rather than seeing an improvement in their day-to-day lives, ordinary citizens
on the island have only seen an increase in the dictatorship's fierce oppression
against them and the continual denial of their most basic human rights,"
Ros-Lehtinen said.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo epa

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             500 of 1000 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 16, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Trump's soft spot: Rich Russians;
They fill his condos and invest in his luxury real estate projects

BYLINE: Oren Dorell, @orendorell, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1055 words


President-elect Donald Trump's controversial soft spot for Russia is based on
decades of courting wealthy Russians to buy condos in his luxury high-rises and
invest in his other real estate ventures, a close look at his business dealings
reveals.

Trump first traveled to Moscow in the 1980s to discuss renovating hotels there.
After several bankruptcies made it hard to raise money in the USA for his
high-end hotel and condominium projects since the 1990s, Trump, and later his
children, traveled to Moscow to talk deals and attract buyers, according to
interviews with people who have worked with Trump over the years and news
accounts. They show far greater commercial ties between Trump and Russia than
generally known.

Real estate brokers in New York, Florida and Dubai told USA TODAY that Trump
properties still attract high-end buyers from Russia, as well as from other
countries.

Dolly Lenz, a real estate broker in New York, said she sold about 65 units in
Trump World Tower, a condominium tower at 845 U.N. Plaza in Manhattan, to
Russian buyers looking for real estate investments in the late 1990s. "I had
contacts in Moscow looking to invest in the United States," Lenz said. "'What do
you have to recommend?' They all wanted to meet Donald. They became very
friendly."

Ilya Reznik, who said he's sold dozens of condominiums to Russians in Trump
properties in south Florida, said his clients like Trump's reputation for high
quality luxury that's priced right. "They're businessmen, not too many
politicians," Reznik said.

Gil Dezer, whose family built six Trump buildings with their own money in south
Florida, said Russians buy Trump properties for the brand name. Dezer developed
the property under Trump's name, meaning Trump received a royalty fee at the
time of the sale, "and the name stays on the building," he said.

In 2008, Trump's son Donald Trump Jr. told investors in Moscow that the Trump
Organization had trademarked the Donald Trump name in Russia and planned to
build housing and hotels in Moscow, St. Petersburg and Sochi and to sell
licenses to other developers, according to the Russian daily Kommersant.

"We see a lot of money pouring in from Russia. There's indeed a lot of money
coming for new-builds and resale reflecting a trend in the Russian economy and,
of course, the weak dollar vs. the ruble," Trump Jr. said at the time

These business dealings explain Trump's comfort level with a country -- and its
authoritarian president, Vladimir Putin -- when President Obama and both parties
in Congress are alarmed over a series of Russian actions, the most recent being
CIA allegations that the Russian government interfered in the presidential
election.

nomination concerns

This week, Trump named Rex Tillerson, the CEO and chairman of ExxonMobil, as his
nominee for secretary of State. The nomination of Tillerson, who received an
excellence award from Putin in 2014 and has partnered with Putin's ally and
Russian oil executive Igor Sechin, sparked concerns from Republican and
Democratic members of Congress.

The Trump Organization did not respond to a request for comment. Company General
Counsel Michael Cohen told the Financial Times in October, "The Trump
Organization does not have any properties in Russia and the press' fascination
with this narrative is both misleading and fabricated. Perpetuation of this
false connection ... or any connection with Russia altogether -- is yet another
example of the press's liberal bias towards Mr. Trump."

The Obama administration and Congress assailed Putin for seizing Crimea from
Ukraine and for teaming up with Syrian President Bashar Assad against rebels in
a conflict that has killed hundreds of thousands of civilians. Despite Putin's
crackdown on individual freedoms, Trump has praised his strong leadership style,
called the CIA allegations about election meddling "ridiculous," suggested
during the campaign that he might be willing to let Russia keep Crimea and
raised the prospect of working with Russia to end Syria's long civil war.

Trump's efforts to do business in Russia look like a string of failed projects.

In 1987, he was invited by Yuri Dubinin, the Russian ambassador to the United
States, to discuss luxury hotel developments in Moscow and Leningrad. Earlier,
Trump tried to convince the Reagan White House to let him handle nuclear
disarmament talks with Moscow, according to news accounts at the time.

Around that time, Russians who had been authorized to buy state-owned
enterprises in what was left of the Soviet Union were amassing fortunes and
becoming the country's first "oligarchs," said Thomas Pickering, the first U.S.
ambassador to the new Russian Federation, which was created after the breakup of
the Soviet Union.

Today, those oligarchs are close allies of Putin.

PAGEANTRY IN MOSCOW

Russian billionaire Aras Agalarov spent $20 million to hold the Miss Universe
Pageant that Trump brought to Moscow in 2013. The venue was Agalarov's Crocus
City Hall on the outskirts of Moscow. During Trump's stay in Moscow, the two
became so close that Trump even took part in a music video with Agalarov's son,
Emin.

"Mr. Trump spent almost a week here with us,"  Agalarov told the Komsomolskaya
Pravda newspaper in an interview Nov. 9, the day after Trump won the election.
"Emin had a request -- if he could appear in his video. And Donald said, 'Well,
I'll have 10 minutes, if you can do it in one take.' And it was done in one
take."

The billionaire denied media reports that he financed Trump: "I can't finance
myself, and I'm going to finance the president of the United States? We're all
in such a crisis that we don't have time for the U.S. president. We're thinking
about how to get out of the economic situation we are in."

Agalarov and his son told Russian media in 2013 that they were looking into
other projects with Trump, potentially including a Trump Tower near Crocus City
Hall, a project that could be worth up to $350 million. The project was put on
hold when Trump ran for president.

"When Donald Trump was here in Moscow, he said a lot of good things about our
country, our culture, our people," Agalarov told Komsomolskaya Pravda in 2015.
"And in his interviews he says that if he becomes president of the United
States, he will certainly keep in mind that he has friends in Russia."

Contributing: Anna Aruntunyun in Moscow

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Mark Lennihan, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
