



Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Monday, November 19, 2018  16:22:10 EST
Send To:

MEGADEAL, ACADEMIC UNIVERSE
STANFORD UNIVERSITY
LIBRARY
STANFORD, CA 30309


Terms: ((refugee OR refugees) AND (United States OR America) AND (Africa))


Source: Newspaper Stories, Combined Papers;US Law Reviews and Journals,
Combined;Federal & State Court Cases - After 1944, Combined;Company Profiles and
Directories
Combined Source: Newspaper Stories, Combined Papers;US Law Reviews and Journals,
Combined;Federal & State Court Cases - After 1944, Combined;Company Profiles and
Directories
Project ID:



                               1 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           September 23, 2018 Sunday
                                  Home Edition

THE WORLD;
Trump, U.N. at odds on climate refugees;
As worsening disasters displace millions, U.S. spurns emissions goals and limits
migration.

BYLINE: Tracy Wilkinson

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; National Desk; Part A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1120 words

DATELINE:  WASHINGTON


From African farms shriveled into desert to monster storms revved up by warmer
air over the oceans, climate change is stoking environmental disasters around
the globe and uprooting millions of people a year -- adding to a refugee crisis
said to be the worst since World War II.

The increasingly extreme weather patterns have destroyed food and water
supplies, left communities destitute, strained national and international aid
resources, and fomented political instability in fragile societies in Africa,
the Middle East, Asia and Latin America, according to development experts.

"Climate change is the force multiplier for chronic social and environmental
problems," said Tim Ash Vie of the Climate Group, an advocacy organization
working to counter global warming.

The hazards of global warming will be the focus of high-profile conferences,
protests and other events on the margins of the annual United Nations General
Assembly meeting this week in New York, echoing some of the features of the
Global Climate Action Summit earlier this month in San Francisco.

President Trump is scheduled to address the U.N. on Tuesday. But he has
dismissed the science behind climate change as a hoax and pulled the United
States out of the 2015 Paris climate accord, which seeks to lower carbon
emissions that are linked to global warming.

The Trump administration also has drastically cut the number of vetted refugees
fleeing wars and persecution that it will accept into the U.S. Last week, it
moved to cap the total next year at 30,000, the lowest since the refugee program
was created in 1980.

The plight of those forced from their homes by the changing environment has been
overshadowed by the estimated 65 million refugees now surging around the globe,
the most in decades. Unlike them, people displaced by environmental changes are
not recognized as refugees under international law.

The 1951 Refugee Convention, which grew out of World War II and was ratified by
145 countries, predated modern environmental science. In recent decades, climate
scientists have concluded that the planet is warming because of human
activities, causing a mix of effects.

A warming polar cap has opened new fishing and shipping routes in the northern
oceans, while greater rainfall and longer growing seasons have improved crop
yields in some areas. But hurricanes in the Atlantic and typhoons in the Pacific
have steadily worsened, causing devastation from North Carolina to China.

In the developing world, so-called climate refugees are often swept into the
ranks of economic migrants by unwelcoming, overtaxed governments -- as happened
with thousands of sub-Saharan and central African men and women who crossed the
Mediterranean Sea to reach southern Europe.

While some migrants were looking for better jobs, other families had fled
because drought or torrential rains had destroyed their homes and livelihoods.

An estimated 20 million people are uprooted annually by environmental
conditions, according to Alice Thomas, who heads the climate displacement
program at Refugees International, a humanitarian and advocacy group.

The total includes victims of some disasters, like earthquakes, that are
unrelated to climate, but Thomas said the intensity and frequency of giant
storms and droughts is a leading cause of the migration.

"Weather is changing more quickly than we expected, and it will accelerate," she
said. "More and more, climate change will become the primary driver for distress
migration. It undermines sustained development and the livelihoods so many have
relied on for centuries or longer."

Climate change is driving migration, which in turn can result in violence and
instability, said Nancy Lindborg, the president of the U.S. Institute of Peace,
who has worked extensively on development and democracy issues in Africa. "It
has become a nasty cocktail," she added.

In addition to those who cross borders, as many as 140 million people could be
displaced within their own countries by 2050, a recent study from the World Bank
concludes.

U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has labeled climate change the most
dangerous threat confronting the world. The U.N. environmental program contends
that global warming is redrawing the map of where people can live on the planet.

In 2016, the U.N. agreed to establish guidelines on how to deal with climate
refugees, among others, to provide protection, access to schooling and other
opportunities. After two years of consultation and drafts, the countries are
scheduled to ratify the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration
in December.

Only one country has dropped out of the process so far -- the U.S. under Trump.
Hungary, where a right-wing backlash against immigrants is surging, has
indicated it will also withdraw.

The Trump administration has downgraded the issue of climate change and even
removed the term from some official documents. Though some administration
officials acknowledge climate change is real, they dispute that human activity
is causing it.

Scientists and activists paint an alarming portrait of the consequences of
extreme weather worldwide.

In Africa, herders and farmers are fighting as Lake Chad evaporates, while
drought has nearly wiped out Zimbabwe's staple crop, maize. In India, rains
flooded Kerala state at record levels, while rising seas in are nipping away at
low-lying islands in the central Pacific.

"The perception is changing quite fast," Elizabeth Sellwood, an expert at the
U.N. Environment Program, said in a telephone interview from Nairobi, Kenya.
"There is growing realization that climate change is not just an environmental
issue but a security issue."

Even in the United States, where families displaced by disasters are not
considered refugees, thousands of people have lost homes to wildfires on the
West Coast and flooding on the East Coast, all apparently exacerbated by climate
change.

Hurricane Florence, which hit the Carolinas this month and killed at least 43
people, carried 50% more water than previous storms because of warmer sea
surface temperatures, according to a new study by researchers at Stony Brook
University and the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory.

In Alaska, some native fishing villages are threatened by melting permafrost.
Although relatively few people are affected, the villages represent unique
native cultures, said Joel Clement, a former Interior Department official who
will take over an Arctic policy program at Harvard University.

"No human has ever experienced the rate of change in the Arctic that we are
seeing now," Clement said. As ice disappears, he said, brutal storms roar in
from the Bering Sea and chew away at already shrinking land "meters at a time."

--

tracy.wilkinson@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MEN paddle through floodwaters from Typhoon Mangkhut last week
in the Philippines. Climate change is driving increasingly extreme weather,
experts say.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Noel Celis AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2018 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                          September 20, 2018 Thursday
                                  Home Edition

New refugee quota called 'shameful';
State Department officials defend the decision to drastically limit the number.

BYLINE: Tracy Wilkinson

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; National Desk; Part A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 985 words

DATELINE:  WASHINGTON


Facing backlash over the decision to drastically limit the number of refugees
who will be permitted to settle in the United States, State Department officials
are attempting to defend the move and soften its impact.

But ultimately, the proposed new quota -- a third of last year's number and an
all-time low -- will probably remain the same or even smaller because it fits
into President Trump's broader policy, which critics say is aimed at reducing
the number of foreign-born people in the United States.

Amid what the United Nations calls the worst refugee crisis since World War II,
millions of people have fled war, famine or political repression in the Middle
East, Africa and more recently, Central and South America.

Despite some polls that show general public support for refugees, Trump has been
accused of trying to build political capital among his base by stoking fear of
immigrants and apathy toward refugees.

Secretary of State Michael R. Pompeo announced late Monday the administration's
plan to slash the number of refugees accepted in the United States by a third,
down to 30,000 from this year's cap of 45,000 and the lowest since the Refugee
Act was adopted nearly 40 years ago. It is the second consecutive year the
ceiling has been lowered.

Pompeo said the lower goal was made necessary by the backlog of asylum seekers
in the United States, numbering 800,000.

The cap reflects "our commitment to protect the most vulnerable around the world
while prioritizing the safety and well-being of the American people, as
President Trump has directed," Pompeo said.

Barely 24 hours later, the decision was met with a scathing blast of criticism
from members of Congress and immigrant-advocacy and human rights groups.

Refugee advocates described the proposed limit as appalling and an affront to
front-line countries like Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey that have received millions
of refugees.

"The abysmally low refugee cap ... is a shameful abdication of our humanity in
the face of the worst refugee crisis in history," said Jennifer Quigley of the
Human Rights First advocacy organization. "By setting the lowest refugee cap in
history, we have turned our backs not only on those in dire circumstances
abroad, but on our own American ideals."

Ryan Mace, refugee specialist at the U.S. branch of Amnesty International, said
the new ceiling, compounded by "roadblock after roadblock" for refugees, was an
"all-out attack" on refugee resettlement.

Sen. Benjamin L. Cardin (D-Md.) was one of several lawmakers, mostly Democratic,
who condemned Pompeo's proposal as a cruel move that will only weaken the United
States. He said it was part of Trump's determination "to build metaphorical
walls" around the country.

The State Department attempted to clarify that the new ceiling was merely a
recommendation that would be reviewed by Congress before the White House would
sign off.

The Trump administration wants to prevent immigration and floods of refugees by
helping improve conditions in the home countries, State Department spokeswoman
Heather Nauert said Tuesday. At the same time, however, the administration is
reducing much of the aid that would fulfill that goal, such as reconstruction
money for Syria and Iraq and democracy-building assistance in Central America.

"America is the most generous nation in the entire world," Nauert said. But, she
added, "Our pockets are not unlimited."

Limiting refugees is just the latest in a string of anti-immigrant policies
under the Trump administration, including an increase in the rejection of asylum
applications; stepped-up raids on immigrant communities; increased deportations;
separation of immigrant families who entered the country illegally; and ending a
special temporary-protection status of thousands of people from war-torn
countries or those suffering natural disasters, such as Haiti, Yemen and El
Salvador.

From the early weeks of his government, Trump has made clear that his overall
goal is to reduce legal and illegal immigration. His policies could eventually
change the ethnic makeup of the United States.

Trump has said immigration should be based on "merit" and favor those who can
easily "assimilate," or as he once put it, come "from places like Norway."

Trump reiterated that sentiment on Tuesday during the visit of Polish President
Andrzej Duda when asked by reporters about visa waivers for Poles.

"We love the people of Poland coming to the United States in any way, shape or
form," Trump said. In contrast, he has criticized immigration from poorer
nations in Africa and Central America, calling them "shitholes."

In the last year, refugees admitted to the United States are overwhelmingly
Christian, about 70%, to about 14% Muslim, according to State Department
figures, even though about 40% of the more than 60 million displaced people
worldwide are Muslim.

Early in his administration, Trump sought to declare a ban on people arriving in
the U.S. from several mostly Muslim countries. The ban, after numerous court
stays, only survived after adjustments to assure courts that Muslims were not
being targeted.

The new cap would apply in the next fiscal year starting Oct. 1. Only about
21,000 refugees have been permitted in during the fiscal year now ending, fewer
than half of those allowed under the current ceiling of 45,000, according to
State Department data.

Even in Europe, which has received the brunt of refugee flows from the Middle
East that ultimately created significant political backlash, numerous countries
have majorities that approve of receiving refugees, according to a report
released Wednesday by the Pew Research Center.

Spain, Germany, Sweden, Britain and other countries that have seen immigration
spur a right-wing nationalist surge nevertheless have three-quarters or more of
their populations favoring refugee arrivals, the Pew study, conducted this
summer, said.

--

tracy.wilkinson@latimes.com

Twitter: @TracyKWilkinson

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CENTRAL AMERICANS seeking asylum in the U.S. gather at an
encampment near El Chaparral Port of Entry in Tijuana in May.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Gary
Coronado Los Angeles Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2018 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                          September 20, 2018 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                                  Home Edition

New refugee quota called 'shameful';
State Department officials defend the decision to drastically limit the number.

BYLINE: Tracy Wilkinson

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; National Desk; Part A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 985 words

DATELINE:  WASHINGTON


Facing backlash over the decision to drastically limit the number of refugees
who will be permitted to settle in the United States, State Department officials
are attempting to defend the move and soften its impact.

But ultimately, the proposed new quota -- a third of last year's number and an
all-time low -- will probably remain the same or even smaller because it fits
into President Trump's broader policy, which critics say is aimed at reducing
the number of foreign-born people in the United States.

Amid what the United Nations calls the worst refugee crisis since World War II,
millions of people have fled war, famine or political repression in the Middle
East, Africa and more recently, Central and South America.

Despite some polls that show general public support for refugees, Trump has been
accused of trying to build political capital among his base by stoking fear of
immigrants and apathy toward refugees.

Secretary of State Michael R. Pompeo announced late Monday the administration's
plan to slash the number of refugees accepted in the United States by a third,
down to 30,000 from this year's cap of 45,000 and the lowest since the Refugee
Act was adopted nearly 40 years ago. It is the second consecutive year the
ceiling has been lowered.

Pompeo said the lower goal was made necessary by the backlog of asylum seekers
in the United States, numbering 800,000.

The cap reflects "our commitment to protect the most vulnerable around the world
while prioritizing the safety and well-being of the American people, as
President Trump has directed," Pompeo said.

Barely 24 hours later, the decision was met with a scathing blast of criticism
from members of Congress and immigrant-advocacy and human rights groups.

Refugee advocates described the proposed limit as appalling and an affront to
front-line countries like Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey that have received millions
of refugees.

"The abysmally low refugee cap ... is a shameful abdication of our humanity in
the face of the worst refugee crisis in history," said Jennifer Quigley of the
Human Rights First advocacy organization. "By setting the lowest refugee cap in
history, we have turned our backs not only on those in dire circumstances
abroad, but on our own American ideals."

Ryan Mace, refugee specialist at the U.S. branch of Amnesty International, said
the new ceiling, compounded by "roadblock after roadblock" for refugees, was an
"all-out attack" on refugee resettlement.

Sen. Benjamin L. Cardin (D-Md.) was one of several lawmakers, mostly Democratic,
who condemned Pompeo's proposal as a cruel move that will only weaken the United
States. He said it was part of Trump's determination "to build metaphorical
walls" around the country.

The State Department attempted to clarify that the new ceiling was merely a
recommendation that would be reviewed by Congress before the White House would
sign off.

The Trump administration wants to prevent immigration and floods of refugees by
helping improve conditions in the home countries, State Department spokeswoman
Heather Nauert said Tuesday. At the same time, however, the administration is
reducing much of the aid that would fulfill that goal, such as reconstruction
money for Syria and Iraq and democracy-building assistance in Central America.

"America is the most generous nation in the entire world," Nauert said. But, she
added, "Our pockets are not unlimited."

Limiting refugees is just the latest in a string of anti-immigrant policies
under the Trump administration, including an increase in the rejection of asylum
applications; stepped-up raids on immigrant communities; increased deportations;
separation of immigrant families who entered the country illegally; and ending a
special temporary-protection status of thousands of people from war-torn
countries or those suffering natural disasters, such as Haiti, Yemen and El
Salvador.

From the early weeks of his government, Trump has made clear that his overall
goal is to reduce legal and illegal immigration. His policies could eventually
change the ethnic makeup of the United States.

Trump has said immigration should be based on "merit" and favor those who can
easily "assimilate," or as he once put it, come "from places like Norway."

Trump reiterated that sentiment on Tuesday during the visit of Polish President
Andrzej Duda when asked by reporters about visa waivers for Poles.

"We love the people of Poland coming to the United States in any way, shape or
form," Trump said. In contrast, he has criticized immigration from poorer
nations in Africa and Central America, calling them "shitholes."

In the last year, refugees admitted to the United States are overwhelmingly
Christian, about 70%, to about 14% Muslim, according to State Department
figures, even though about 40% of the more than 60 million displaced people
worldwide are Muslim.

Early in his administration, Trump sought to declare a ban on people arriving in
the U.S. from several mostly Muslim countries. The ban, after numerous court
stays, only survived after adjustments to assure courts that Muslims were not
being targeted.

The new cap would apply in the next fiscal year starting Oct. 1. Only about
21,000 refugees have been permitted in during the fiscal year now ending, fewer
than half of those allowed under the current ceiling of 45,000, according to
State Department data.

Even in Europe, which has received the brunt of refugee flows from the Middle
East that ultimately created significant political backlash, numerous countries
have majorities that approve of receiving refugees, according to a report
released Wednesday by the Pew Research Center.

Spain, Germany, Sweden, Britain and other countries that have seen immigration
spur a right-wing nationalist surge nevertheless have three-quarters or more of
their populations favoring refugee arrivals, the Pew study, conducted this
summer, said.

--

tracy.wilkinson@latimes.com

Twitter: @TracyKWilkinson

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 21, 2018



CORRECTION:  Refugee quota: In the Sept. 20 Section A, an article about the
Trump administration's plan to slash the number of refugees accepted in the U.S.
said the proposed quota is a third of last year's number. It is down a third,
from 45,000 to 30,000 refugees.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CENTRAL AMERICANS seeking asylum in the U.S. gather at an
encampment near El Chaparral Port of Entry in Tijuana in May.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Gary
Coronado Los Angeles Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2018 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                             June 7, 2018 Thursday
                                  Home Edition

A brutal U.S. refugee policy;
Admissions are at a record low, except for those from some European countries.

BYLINE: Bill Frelick, Brian Root, Bill Frelick is the refugee rights program
director at Human Rights Watch and Brian Root is the quantitative analyst at
Human Rights Watch.

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; Opinion Desk; Part A; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 739 words


It should be no surprise that the first year of the Trump presidency has been
brutal for refugees. Not only are resettlement numbers down to the lowest levels
recorded in the nearly 40-year history of the program, but the trends by
nationality raise disturbing questions in light of the president's hateful and
bigoted rhetoric about refugees and immigrants.

Reflecting his contempt for a program he has compared to a "great Trojan horse,"
the State Department's refugee bureau has been leaderless since Donald Trump
became president. But that could change with the May 24 nomination of Ronald
Mortensen to serve as assistant secretary of State for the Bureau of Population,
Refugees and Migration. Mortensen is a retired foreign service officer with
humanitarian-assistance experience, but he is also an outspoken critic of
illegal immigration and a fellow at the Center for Immigration Studies, which
advocates for restrictions on newcomers to the U.S.

Mortensen's nomination has to be confirmed by members of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee. The committee should take a close look at his writings.

Mortensen as accused Sen. John McCain of "dogged support for illegal aliens
[that] has left the United States vulnerable to terrorists." In an op-ed for the
Hill, he characterized the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program as
rewarding Dreamers "for destroying the futures of innocent American children."

The senators should also ask Mortensen what he thinks about worrisome trends
already in effect in the refugee program.

At the halfway point of this fiscal year, the United States had admitted only
10,548 refugees, a 74% drop compared with the same period in 2017. This at a
time when Middle Eastern nations are struggling to maintain asylum for 5.6
million Syrian refugees, when more than 700,000 displaced Rohingya have poured
from Burma into Bangladesh, and when most of the world's 20 million refugees are
stuck in protracted situations with little prospect of returning home anytime
soon.

The Trump administration has slowed down refugee admissions by throwing sand
into the gears of resettlement processing. This has included "extreme vetting"
and the redeployment of the Refugee Corps officers, who usually interview
potential resettlement candidates in overseas camps, to the stepped-up efforts
at the U.S. border to interview people making asylum claims.

The slowdown in resettlement and the falling overall numbers of refugee
admissions tell only part of the story.

We examined the latest fiscal year 2018 refugee data against averages from the
previous five years and found that the plunge in admissions has largely spared a
handful of white-majority European countries.

The United States is currently admitting 110% of the European admissions it had
typically resettled, while admitting only 22% of the usual numbers from the rest
of the world.

Admissions are down from the five-year average by 67% from African countries,
and about 80% from Middle Eastern/South Asian countries, East Asian countries,
and Latin America/Caribbean countries.

Admissions from countries covered by the president's travel ban have virtually
ceased -- refugees from Iran are at 2.2% of the five-year averages; from Syria,
at 1.8%; from Somalia, 4.5%.

Admissions from Ukraine are up 109%, and Russia, 134%. This pattern is also
reflected in regional targets. Halfway through the fiscal year, the European
regional ceiling is already 87% filled, overwhelmingly by Ukrainian Christians,
but the Middle East/South Asia ceiling is only 16% filled. And 72% of the
refugees admitted from that region so far this year are non-Muslims, down from
54% in the previous five years.

"The process works like the assembly line in a factory," Barbara Strack, who
retired in January as chief of the Refugee Affairs Division at the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services, told the New York Times. "This fiscal
year, the administration essentially 'broke' the assembly line in multiple
places at the same time."

President Trump has scapegoated refugees, called for a total ban on the entry of
Muslims, and expressed an immigration preference for people from places like
Norway. It's now up to the Senate to discover whether Mortensen will bend a
truncated U.S. refugee resettlement program further toward the president's
prejudices or consider restoring a system that has provided hope and rescue for
some of the world's most persecuted and vulnerable people.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THE DROP in resettlements comes as Middle Eastern nations
struggle to accommodate 5.6 million Syrian refugees.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Mohammed
Badra EPA/Shutterstock

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion piece

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2018 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 996 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                           November 4, 2017 Saturday
                            All but Toronto Edition

Canada 'can do more'to ease burden says UN refugee chief

BYLINE: Sidhartha Banerjee, The Canadian Press

SECTION: CANADA; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 347  words

DATELINE: MONTREAL


The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees says Canada's reputation on
refugee matters is solid, but he's hoping it can do even more.

Filippo Grandi said Friday he believes Canada can maintain its champion role by
ramping up resettlement programs to help share the burden with countries facing
an influx of refugees needing a new home.

That doesn't appear to be in the cards, however, as the federal government
announced this week the number it will take via the UN will remain the same,
although it will increase the number of privately sponsored refugees.

It expects to take in 43,000 refugees next year - 3,000 more than this year -
but the number of government-assisted refugees will remain stable at 7,500.

Grandi said he will call on the federal government to go further when he meets
with officials Monday.

"It's a positive message because Canada is an important, leading country in
refugee matters from every perspective," he said. "Positive, but also that
Canada can do more and must to keep that position."

Grandi highlighted the case of Jean-Claude Puati, 40, who has been in Canada for
two years and works regularly as a hospital cook.

He left his native Congo because of his homosexuality and went first to South
Africa before facing discrimination and coming to Canada.

"It's not easy, because coming here people are a bit reserved to begin with,"
said Puati. "There's a lot of opportunity here and I'm looking toward the future
with a lot of hope."

Grandi said Puati's is the kind of case he wants to see Canada further embrace
and that he would like the country to help LGBTQ members, women, rape victims
and unaccompanied children.

On Thursday, the custodian of the UN refugee convention appealed to the Security
Council to do more to prevent and resolve conflicts and work toward peace.
Grandi said he hopes Canada will move to restore its multi lateralist reputation
and global peacekeeping role. Asking Canada to do more comes as the United
States moves to cut by half the number of UN-referred refugees. !@COPYRIGHT=©
2017 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2017 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gazette (Montreal)

                            August 9, 2017 Wednesday
                                 Early Edition

Influx of asylum-seekers into city not a crisis, Coderre says; Haitian ministers
seek agreement related to handling of refugees

BYLINE: KELSEY LITWIN, The Gazette, With Files From Presse Canadienne

SECTION: CITY; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 484 words


Haitian ministers Antonio Rodrigue and Stéphanie Auguste landed in Montreal on
Tuesday for a fact-finding mission related to the large numbers of Haitian
asylum-seekers arriving in the city.

Mayor Denis Coderre, flanked by Rodrigue and Auguste, said the city is currently
housing 2,574 Haitian asylum-seekers in temporary accommodations. He said the
city is looking to dedicate three more locations to temporary housing, as
approximately 250 to 300 people arrive at the Canadian border each day.

The Olympic Stadium and Résidence Notre-Dame de la Providence and a former
English Montreal School Board school in Ahuntsic-Cartierville have already
become shelters to accommodate those who are waiting for their refugee claims to
be processed.

According to July's numbers, 64 per cent of those seeking refugee status
arriving in Montreal are from Haiti, Coderre said, explaining that a number are
coming from Africa and the Americas. He also insisted that what we are seeing is
not a crisis, particularly when compared to the reality faced by certain
European countries.

Rodrigue, Haiti's foreign affairs minister, explained that they are here to
"evaluate the situation," but would not confirm whether he and Auguste would be
visiting any of the shelters, saying they will go if the refugees are willing to
have them. He also said they would like to create an agreement related to the
handling of incoming refugees with the Canadian government during their trip.

"As their government, we are responsible for all that concerns our citizens,
whether it is within (Haiti) or in another country," Rodrigue said.

He and Auguste also took the time to repeatedly thank Coderre and the provincial
and federal governments. Rodrigue said the three levels have shown exceptional
generosity and remarkable solidarity.

Coderre, on his part, used the opportunity to restate that welcoming those in
need is a part of his vision for Montreal as a sanctuary city.

Rodrigue also insisted that the refugee claims are not related to subpar
conditions in their home country.

"It's not that we are not providing (the asylum-seekers) with everything they
need in Haiti," he said. He mused, rather, that it's possible that these
individuals need something that they can't find in their home country or are
searching for something else.

Rodrigue would not comment on the speculations that the waves of asylum-seekers
are related to U.S. President Donald Trump's immigration policies or his
announcement in May that Haitians'temporary protected status would expire in
January 2018. Haitians in the United States were awarded the temporary status
following the country's 2010 earthquake.

Anticipating those who might be deported back to Haiti, Rodrigue said: "It is
their country, it is our country. If they have to go back, we have to receive
them and give them everything we can." !@COPYRIGHT=© 2017 Postmedia Network Inc.
All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DAVE SIDAWAY; Haiti's Foreign Affairs Minister Antonio Rodrigue, left,
and Minister for Haitians Living Abroad Stéphanie Auguste, centre, met with
Mayor Denis Coderre Tuesday as part of a fact-finding mission.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Montreal Gazette
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                  Times Colonist (Victoria, British Columbia)

                              May 19, 2017 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Refugee claimant who lost all his fingers to frostbite gets to stay in Canada

SECTION: CANADA; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 220 words

DATELINE: WINNIPEG


Five months after nearly freezing to death on a treacherous walk across the
Canada-U.S. border, and still learning to get along without the 10 fingers and
thumbs he lost to frostbite, Seidu Mohammed is happy. He gets to stay here.

The Immigration and Refugee Board has granted Mohammed refugee status on the
basis that the 24-year-old bisexual professional soccer player from Ghana would
face persecution if returned to his home country.

"I feel so happy. I feel now that this country is my home now," he said
Thursday, sitting at the kitchen table in his home. With a bit of effort, he
opened a binder and produced the written decision from the Immigration and
Refugee Board.

Mohammed fled Ghana to the United States in 2015. Like many asylum seekers from
Africa, he first flew to Ecuador - where no visas are required - then made his
way by bus through Central America and then to the U.S., where he spent several
months in a detention centre.

Released from custody pending deportation, Mohammed made it to North Dakota,
took a cab to an area near the border at Emerson, Man. and, along with a fellow
asylum seeker, walked seven hours Dec. 24 as the wind chill dropped to -30 C.

The men were found by a trucker near Letellier, Man., nearly frozen. They both
spent weeks in hospital.

The other man is waiting to learn his fate.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Canadian Press; Seidu Mohammed shows off his refugee claim
acceptance letter in Winnipeg on Thursday. He lost all his fingers and thumbs to
frostbite five months ago while walking into Manitoba from the U.S.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2017 Times Colonist
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                  Times Colonist (Victoria, British Columbia)

                              May 14, 2017 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Refugee crisis goes beyond Syria: scholars

BYLINE: Katie Derosa, Times Colonist

SECTION: THE CAPITAL; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 392 words


Our understanding of the refugee crisis might be too narrowly restricted to the
plight of Syrians or those crossing the Mediterranean by boat, say researchers
who want to broaden the conversation about people forced to flee their homes.

A conference at the University of Victoria this week aims to tell the story of
forgotten migrants: People who are displaced because of climate change, economic
hardship or a complex web of factors.

"So much of the press looks at Europe and, more recently with Donald Trump as
the new president of the United States, the whole issue of who is and is not
welcome in the United States," said Helen Lansdowne, associate director of
UVic's Centre for Asia-Pacific Initiatives.

"One of the things we wanted to do is broaden the discussion on forced migration
and displacement and bring in complexities such as internal migration [and] who
gets to be called a migrant or a refugee."

The centre is hosting the Canadian Association for Refugee and Forced Migration
Studies conference this week.

It features a keynote address by Sheila Watt-Cloutier. The human rights and
environmental activist will talk about how climate change in Canada's North
could lead to massive displacement for Inuit.

Scholars from Vanuatu and Borneo will also participate in a live-stream
discussion on how rising sea levels could wipe out some Pacific Island nations.
Already, extreme weather linked to climate change has caused environmental
catastrophes around the globe, forcing people from their homes.

Lansdowne said the aim of the conference is not to dismiss the plight of people
crossing from the Middle East and Northern Africa to Europe, but to include
other stories in the discussion.

Taiwo Afolabi, a PhD student at UVic in applied theatre, uses art to give
displaced people a sense of empowerment rather than treating them like victims.

Afolabi has worked with refugees in Victoria and helped them use dance, music
and drama to tell their stories, what he calls an exercise in "self-celebration,
self-expression and self-documentation."

"We're building community and building relationships between refugees from
different cultural backgrounds," said Afolabi, who will discuss his research on
Tuesday.

Watt-Cloutier's keynote is one of seven events open to the public. For more
information, go to carfms.org/carfms17-program.

kderosa@timescolonist.com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2017 Times Colonist
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                  Times Colonist (Victoria, British Columbia)

                             April 21, 2017 Friday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. arrests 2 Canadians in human-smuggling investigation

SECTION: CANADA; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 325 words

DATELINE: REGINA


Authorities in the United States say two Canadian citizens and one person from
Nigeria have been apprehended as part of an investigation into human smuggling.

The United States Border Patrol said agents picked up the three people last
Friday between the North Portal and Northgate crossings, the legal entry points
into Saskatchewan from North Dakota.

It was not immediately clear whether the people are still in custody or if
charges have been laid.

The investigation also led to the arrest of and charges against a Saskatchewan
woman. Michelle Omoruyi, 43, is charged with human smuggling and conspiracy to
commit human smuggling. She is to appear in court May 15 in Estevan, Sask.

An investigation into organized human smuggling in southeastern Saskatchewan
began last December after Canadian border officers referred a returning male
Canadian resident for further examination.

The Canadian Border Services Agency said there was evidence to suggest smugglers
were bringing foreign nationals into Canada from the United States.

Last Friday, American border authorities identified a suspect in the
investigation as he entered the U.S. They notified their Canadian counterparts,
who in turn alerted the RCMP "that a smuggling attempt may be imminent."

RCMP said a woman was then stopped on the Canadian side of the border between
the North Portal and Northgate crossings.

Police said nine people from West Africa were in her vehicle, but would not
confirm their ages, gender or nationalities.

The nine were processed by the Canada Border Services Agency and have been
released into Canada. All have made refugee claims.

Getachew Woldyesus, with the Regina Open Door Society, a non-profit organization
that provides settlement and integration services to refugees and immigrants in
Regina, said the refugees claimants had not yet reached out to the agency.

Woldyesus said the Regina Open Door Society would help find temporary housing
and income support if asked.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2017 Times Colonist
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                     The Leader-Post (Regina, Saskatchewan)

                          February 22, 2017 Wednesday
                                 Early Edition

Manitoba premier wants co-ordination on refugee surge

BYLINE: Steve Lambert, The Leader-Post

SECTION: CITY &; REGION; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 446 words

DATELINE: WINNIPEG


The federal and provincial governments need to co-ordinate their approach to the
growing number of asylum-seekers crossing the border because all signs from the
United States suggest the issue is not going away, says Manitoba's premier.

"With the United States approach, and the United States new administration's
approach on issues related to refugees - and to immigration generally - there
are conditions that would lead, I think, most people to conclude this will be an
ongoing challenge," Brian Pallister said Tuesday.

"We have a letter going out with specific issues that we would like to see the
federal government cooperatively address, and I have a call lined up later this
week with other premiers to discuss the issue and co-ordinate our approaches in
respect of where we go from here."

Pallister's office later clarified that his calls with other premiers will be
one-by-one and not a conference call.

The number of people fleeing the United States, largely from African countries
originally, has jumped in recent weeks, following planned crackdowns on
immigration in the U.S. The refugees have been crossing fields and ditches near
border communities such as Emerson-Franklin, Man. and Hemmingford, Que.

The tactic is a way to get around the Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement,
which requires anyone who has already applied for refugee status in the U.S. to
be turned away at an official border crossing in Canada.

If a person crosses somewhere else and gets apprehended on Canadian soil, they
can apply as a refugee and the case is heard by Canadian authorities.

Some immigration lawyers and politicians want Canada to change the agreement so
that people can turn themselves in at official border crossings and still get
their refugee claim heard.

The reeve of Emerson-Franklin, Greg Janzen, said Tuesday the idea would increase
safety for his community's residents and for the refugees, who have been making
long crossings on foot in the dead of winter.

"I would like to see something changed and get some order to this chaos that's
going on," Janzen said.

"Let them walk up to the port of entry. Will that bring more people? Yes. But at
least it will be in an organized manner."

Pallister was non-committal on the issue. He said there are arguments for and
against changing the Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement.

Pallister also would not specify what he is seeking from the federal government.

He said he is putting those details in a letter to Prime Minister Justin
Trudeau.

"I think we have to have the dialogue (first) and we should endeavour to do that
co-operatively with the federal government." !@COPYRIGHT=© 2017 Postmedia
Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2017 The Leader-Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                  Times Colonist (Victoria, British Columbia)

                          February 15, 2017 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Road to Canada long and perilous; 'We want to make our home here because we have
lost our home,' border crosser says

BYLINE: Steve Lambert, The Canadian Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 682 words

DATELINE: WINNIPEG


The perilous walk through frozen fields at the border between the United States
and Manitoba was just the latest chapter of a three-continent, dangerfilled
journey for Mohammed and Mamood, two of the growing number of asylum-seekers
hoping for a new life in Canada.

They say they had already walked through South American forests, crammed into
over-filled boats, spent months in detention centres in the United States, and
paid high fees to those who provided transport. It was to escape what they say
is the threat of death back in Ghana.

"We are not here to cause problem or something. No, we want to make here our
home because we have lost our home. We have no place," Mohammed said Tuesday as
he sat in the small two-bedroom apartment that serves as a temporary shelter for
him, Mamood and four other recent arrivals. One bedroom has two sets of bunk
beds with barely enough room to walk in between.

The two men agreed to talk about their experience but asked that their last
names not be used for fear that their friends and family in Ghana may suffer.

Neither man wanted to provide details on why they fled Ghana, other than what
Mamood called "personal issues with the community."

The Canadian Press talked to their lawyer, Bashir Khan, who confirmed their
applications before the Immigration and Refugee Board of Canada. They'll have to
be specific when they appear before the refugee board in the coming weeks.

Mohammed - a slight, friendly 31-year-old - said he left Ghana in 2014. He flew
to Brazil, then to Ecuador, and started making his way further north through
Colombia and Panama. He took buses or walked, sometimes through the night, he
said.

He recalls going through thick forests and at one point, getting on a crowded
boat for a seven-hour trip north, hiding under a plastic tarp with others.

He eventually got to the United States at a border crossing south of San Diego,
he said, and was detained for 10 months. By February 2016, he was released, and
later lived in New York, where he learned his application to stay in the U.S.
had been denied.

In late November, he decided to go to Canada and took a bus to Minneapolis on
the false assumption that the city was close to the Canadian border. It was at
the Minneapolis bus station where he met Mamood, he says.

"We speak the same language, so we talk and he said he is going to Canada ...
and I said: 'We can just go together.' " Mamood, two years younger than
Mohammed, tells a similar story - a lengthy trek through Central America, making
a refugee claim after getting to the U.S., being detained for months and
eventually fleeing toward the Canadian border when his refugee application was
denied.

Because both men had first applied for refugee status in the U.S., they would be
turned back at an official border crossing under the Canada-U.S. Safe Third
Country Agreement. But because they managed to get on Canadian soil and were
then arrested, they can stay while their refugee applications are processed.

At the Minneapolis bus station, the men say, they were shocked to learn they
were at least a six-hour drive from the Canadian border. A cabbie charged them
$600 each to take them to the area just across from Emerson, Man. - a community
that has become a hot spot for illicit crossings in recent weeks.

They ended up being dropped off near a sugar factory that turned out to be a
seven-hour walk to the border. The say they dressed in multiple sweaters and
jackets. It was relatively mild weather for late fall on the Prairies, but they
occasionally got wet and very cold.

"There's some waters that you have to pass through ... when you come out, your
leg will be like frozen," Mohammed said.

Eventually, they crossed through a field on the border. It was after midnight
when they reached a hotel in Emerson.

"We pushed the door, it was open. And we just entered and sleep in the corridor
until one and a half hours [later], the guy came and he called police for us,"
Mohammed said.

Said Khan, who specializes in immigration and refugee cases: "In seven years,
I've never seen anyone come in the winter like this from the U.S."

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: John Woods, The Canadian Press; Mohammed, an asylum seeker from Ghana,
looks out from the Winnipeg apartment he shares with five other men from Africa.
He recently walked over the U.S. border into Manitoba.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2017 Times Colonist
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 996 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                           February 2, 2017 Thursday
                                National Edition

Trudeau Could At Least Get Out Of The Way

BYLINE: Terry Glavin, National Post

SECTION: ISSUES &; IDEAS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 1141  words


Ever since last Friday, when U.S. President Donald Trump shut America's doors to
all refugees and banned any visitors from seven countries in the Middle East and
North Africa, Justin Trudeau's Liberal government has been preening about how
different and better and hip and generous we Canadians are.

As it now turns out, at least for the federal government's part, it was all just
talk. On Saturday, Trudeau took to Twitter to declare: "To those fleeing
persecution, terror &; war, Canadians will welcome you, regardless of your
faith. Diversity is our strength. #Welcome to Canada." The world loved it. It
has now turned out to have been a platitude, a Liberal advertising jingle, and a
hashtag.

During Tuesday night's emergency House of Commons debate on the implications of
Trump's malicious and shambolic executive order, the Peace Tower was illuminated
in green to honour the six Muslims murdered while at prayer Sunday night at the
Islamic Centre of Quebec in Quebec City. The visitor's gallery was packed. The
doors were opened to allow the Speaker's Gallery to fill up.

Cabinet ministers and Liberal MPs said more nice things about Canada and about
each other and they dutifully recited the Diversity is Our Strength jingle at
every opportunity, but the one important thing they made abundantly plain during
the Opposition questions that began at 7:30 and ended close to midnight was
this: in the face of the United States' four-month executive abdication from its
commitments under the 1951 Refugee Convention, during the worst refugee crisis
since the Second World War, Canada will not step up.

Canada will do nothing about it, and Justin Trudeau's government doesn't want
Canadian citizens to do anything either. You can march around in your pussy hat
and chant slogans until you're hoarse. You can flood Facebook with the most
dubious claims about the superiority of Canada's splendid multicultural
diversity, you can bewail Islamophobia and you can exaggerate the hell out of
the difference between the Liberal and Conservative immigration records.

But if you and a group of your friends want to raise some money and bring to
Canada just one of those broken-hearted Syrian families whose ticket in the
American resettlement lottery was ripped up last Friday, you're not allowed to
anymore. Been there. Done that.

The Liberal election victory in October 2015 was due in no small measure to the
promises Trudeau made in response to a massive upwelling in Canadian anger and
empathy for the people who had fled Syrian butcher Bashar al-Assad's human
abattoir. A close look at Canada's impressive and praiseworthy Syrian refugee
resettlement numbers - 40,000 since Trudeau formed his government - shows that
only slightly more than half were "government-assisted" resettlements.

Anyway, that was then, but this is now, and the suave and capable Ahmed Hussen,
the Liberals' newly appointed Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship minister,
had nothing new to say during Tuesday night's debate.

Syrian refugees make up the largest refugee population on Earth. There are at
least 5 million of them now, and still they were singled out for the cruelest
treatment in Trump's decree. For the next 90 days, no visitor of any kind will
be permitted to enter the United States from Syria, Somalia, Sudan, Iran, Iraq,
Yemen, or Libya and for the next 120 days, no refugee from anywhere in the world
will be permitted to resettle in the United States. Syrian refugees are barred
"indefinitely."

When it's back up and running, the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program will be cut
in half. From about 70,000 refugees resettled in the U.S. in 2015, the 2017
numbers will be reduced to about 35,000.

New Democratic Party leader Thomas Mulcair led the Tuesday night debate with a
series of perfectly sensible proposals. Suspend the Safe Third Country Agreement
Canada concluded with the U.S. back in 2002. Lift the 1,000-application cap on
refugee sponsorships by small groups of private citizens. Fast-track
applications American authorities had approved for resettlement before the
Trump's system shutdown, and work with other countries to take up the slack
created by the four-month American truancy from the 1951 Refugee Convention.

Reasonable objections might have been raised against suspending the Third
Country agreement, which is aimed at dissuading applications for asylum in
Canada filed from the United States. There is a provision in the agreement that
allows Canada to consider claims if they're deemed in the public interest, for
instance, so you could keep the arrangement in place and deal with any serious
cases. But this wasn't even offered as a proper excuse Tuesday night. The answer
was "no."

The rest of the NDP package packed the added heft of support from Conservative
immigration critic Michelle Rempel, whose speech Tuesday night was tinged with
sadness and resignation. Rempel wrested a 313-0 House of Commons vote last
October giving the Trudeau government 120 days to open Canada's doors to the
viciously persecuted Yazidis of Iraqi Kurdistan. The Yazidis have been subjected
to what the UN has deemed a genocide at the hands of the Islamic State. With
only days left in that timeline, Hussen's officials have yet to resettle a
single Yazidi in Canada.

As for the rest of the Mulcair's proposals, Ahmed Hussen and his officials could
implement them in their sleep. The Syrian refugees the Trump decree has left
immediately and indefinitely stranded in bleak UN facilities and in makeshift
encampments and back alleys in Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon can be numbered at
about 2,248 innocents. That's how many were slated for resettlement in the U.S.
over the next two months. Even without bringing other countries into it,
Canadians on their own could privately sponsor these refugees in a matter of
weeks.

Thousands of Canadians have teamed up in small groups to privately sponsor
Syrian refugee families, only to be turned away by their own government.
Thousands more Canadians have turned to churches and community groups -
"sponsorship agreement holders" - only to be told that Canada's refugee
-resettlement resources have been bled so dry since last year that they could be
waiting years to bring a family to Canada.

Canadians from all walks of life have done their country proud over the past few
months. To those fleeing persecution, terror and war, regardless of their faith,
Canadians really have opened their arms. The shame of it is that now that we are
faced with a refugee crisis of Donald Trump's making, and our government is all
hat, no cattle.

It's really not much to ask. If the Trudeau government isn't going to help all
those abandoned and betrayed refugees, the least it could do is let Canadians
put their backs into it and get the hell out of the way.

National Post !@COPYRIGHT=© 2017 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2017 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                           February 2, 2017 Thursday
                                 Early Edition

Pm'S All Talk, No Action; Cowed by Trump, Trudeau treats refugee policy as
advertising jingle

BYLINE: Terry Glavin, Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 1159 words


Well, that's it, then. It's settled. Canada is going to do nothing.

Ever since last Friday, when U.S. President Donald Trump shut America's doors to
all refugees and banned any visitors from seven countries in the Middle East and
North Africa, Justin Trudeau's Liberal government has been preening about how
different and better and hip and generous we Canadians are.

As it now turns out, at least for the federal government's part, it was all just
talk. On Saturday, Trudeau took to Twitter to declare: "To those fleeing
persecution, terror &; war, Canadians will welcome you, regardless of your
faith. Diversity is our strength. #Welcome to Canada." The world loved it. It
has now turned out to have been a platitude, a Liberal advertising jingle and a
hashtag.

During Tuesday night's emergency House of Commons debate on the implications of
Trump's malicious and shambolic executive order, the Peace Tower was illuminated
in green to honour the six Muslims murdered while at prayer Sunday night at the
Centre Culturel Islamique de Québec in Quebec City. The visitor's gallery was
packed. The doors were opened to allow the Speaker's Gallery to fill up.

Cabinet ministers and Liberal MPs said more nice things about Canada and about
each other and they dutifully recited the Diversity is Our Strength jingle at
every opportunity, but the one important thing they made abundantly plain during
Opposition questions that began at 7:30 p.m. and ended close to midnight, was
this: In the face of the United States' four-month executive abdication from its
commitments under the 1951 Refugee Convention, at a time of the worst refugee
crisis since the Second World War, Canada will not step up.

Canada will do nothing about it, and Trudeau's government doesn't want Canadian
citizens to do anything either. You can march around in your "pussy hat" and
chant slogans until you're hoarse. You can flood Facebook with the most dubious
claims about the superiority of Canada's splendid multicultural diversity, you
can bewail Islamophobia and you can exaggerate the hell out of the difference
between the Liberal and Conservative immigration records.

But if you and a group of your friends want to raise some money and bring to
Canada just one of those broken-hearted Syrian families whose ticket in the
American resettlement lottery was ripped up last Friday, you're not allowed to
anymore. Been there. Done that.

The Liberal election victory in October 2015 was due in no small measure to the
promises Trudeau made in response to a massive upwelling in Canadian anger and
empathy for the people who had fled Syrian butcher Bashar Assad's human
abattoir. A close look at Canada's impressive and praiseworthy Syrian refugee
resettlement numbers - 40,000 since Trudeau formed his government - shows that
only slightly more than half were "government-assisted" resettlements.

Anyway, that was then, but this is now, and the suave and capable Ahmed Hussen,
the Liberals' newly appointed Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship minister,
had nothing new to say during Tuesday night's debate.

Syrian refugees make up the largest refugee population on Earth. There are at
least five million of them now, and still they were singled out for the
cruellest treatment in Trump's decree. For the next 90 days, no visitor of any
kind will be permitted to enter the United States from Syria, Somalia, Sudan,
Iran, Iraq, Yemen or Libya, and for the next 120 days, no refugee from anywhere
in the world will be permitted to resettle in the United States. Syrian refugees
are barred "indefinitely."

When it's back up and running, the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program will be cut
in half. From about 70,000 refugees resettled in the U.S. in 2015, the 2017
numbers will be reduced to about 35,000. New Democratic Party leader Tom Mulcair
led the Tuesday night debate with a series of perfectly sensible proposals.
Suspend the Safe Third Country Agreement Canada concluded with the U.S. back in
2002. Lift the 1,000-application cap on refugee sponsorships by small groups of
private citizens. Fast-track applications American authorities had approved for
resettlement before the Trump's system shutdown, and work with other countries
to take up the slack created by the four-month American truancy from the 1951
Refugee Convention.

Reasonable objections might have been raised against suspending the third
country agreement, which is aimed at dissuading applications for asylum in
Canada filed from the United States. There is a provision in the agreement that
allows Canada to consider claims if they're deemed in the public interest, for
instance, so you could keep the arrangement in place and deal with any serious
cases. But this wasn't even offered as a proper excuse Tuesday night. The answer
was "no."

The rest of the NDP package packed the added heft of support from Conservative
immigration critic Michelle Rempel, whose speech Tuesday night was tinged with
sadness and resignation. Rempel wrested a 313-0 House of Commons vote last
October giving the Liberal government 120 days to open Canada's doors to the
viciously persecuted Yazidis of Iraqi Kurdistan. The Yazidis have been subjected
to what the United Nations has deemed a genocide at the hands of the Islamic
State. With only days left in that timeline, Hussen's officials have yet to
resettle a single Yazidi in Canada.

As for the rest of Mulcair's proposals, Hussen and his officials could implement
them in their sleep. The Syrian refugees the Trump decree has left immediately
and indefinitely stranded in bleak UN facilities and in makeshift encampments
and back alleys in Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon can be numbered at about 2,248
innocents. That's how many were slated for resettlement in the U.S. over the
next two months. Even without bringing other countries into it, Canadians on
their own could privately sponsor these refugees in a matter of weeks.

Thousands of Canadians have teamed up in small groups to privately sponsor
Syrian refugee families, only to be turned away by their own government.
Thousands more Canadians have turned to churches and community groups -
"sponsorship agreement holders" - only to be told that Canada's
refugeeresettlement resources have been bled so dry since last year that they
could be waiting years to bring a family to Canada.

Canadians from all walks of life have done their country proud over the past few
months. To those fleeing persecution, terror and war, regardless of their faith,
Canadians really have opened their arms. The shame of it is that now that we are
faced with a refugee crisis of Donald Trump's making, and our government is all
hat, no cattle.

It's really not much to ask. If the Liberal government isn't going to help all
those abandoned and betrayed refugees, the least it could do is let Canadians
put their backs into it and get the hell out of the way.

Terry Glavin is an author and journalist. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2017 Postmedia Network
Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nathan Denette, The Canadian Press Files; Prime Minister Justin Trudeau
greets a refugee family fleeing the Syrian civil war arriving at Pearson
International Airport, in Toronto, in December 2015. Today, he sings a different
tune on refugees.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2017 Ottawa Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                   The Star Phoenix (Saskatoon, Saskatchewan)

                            October 6, 2016 Thursday
                                 Early Edition

Hungarians have forgotten history

BYLINE: Gary Storey, The Starphoenix

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 318 words


Hungarians recently voted 98 per cent in a referendum to reject the European
Union's plan to settle 1,294 refugees in their country out of 160,000 the EU had
agreed to resettle from Greece and Italy, which are overcrowded with refugees
from the Middle East and North Africa. The point isn't that the vote is invalid
since the turnout of 40 per cent didn't meet the 50 per cent threshold required.
The point is what this shows about the attitude of Hungarians toward oppressed
peoples forced to flee because of war.

Millions of Syrians have fled to Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan. From the refugee
camps in these three countries thousands have made their way to southern Europe.
More than 400,000 refugees passed through Hungary last year, most on their way
to Germany and Scandinavia. Since then the Hungarian government has erected a
wire fence across its southern border to block this migration.

Of those who passed through Hungary in 2015, more than 80 per cent of those who
sought asylum there have been rejected. Hungary is still processing 37,000
refugee claims, and has accepted only 508.

Let's roll the clock back to 1956. In that fall, students led a revolt against
the government's Soviet-oriented policies. Others quickly joined the revolt,
which spread across Hungary. The government collapsed and the new government
moved to withdraw from the Warsaw Pact.

Seeing that this would undermine its control in Eastern Europe, the Soviet Union
moved troops into Hungary on Nov. 4 and brutally put down the revolt. Over 2,500
Hungarians and 700 Soviet troops were killed. Over 200,000 Hungarians fled, and
were accepted as refugees in Europe and North America. The United States took in
80,000 and Canada 37,000.

It seems that 60 years has erased this memory among the Hungarian people. How
sad.

Gary Storey

professor emeritus, University of Saskatchewan !@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Postmedia
Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 The Star Phoenix
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                           September 21, 2015 Monday
                          SPORTS FINAL REPLATE EDITION

U.S. to let in thousands more Syrians

BYLINE: Ginger Adams Otis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 170 words


THOUSANDS OF refugees will get a new lease on life in America, Secretary of
State Kerry said Sunday - with as many as 100,000 coming to the U.S. in 2017.

Speaking at a meeting with Germany's foreign minister in Berlin, Kerry said the
U.S. will allow 85,000 refugees from around the world to resettle in America
next year.

The majority of them would be from Syria, he said.

The total number of refugees would rise to about 100,000 annually by 2017 - with
some coming from war-torn parts of Africa, Kerry said.

The White House had previously said it would allow 10,000 additional Syrian
refugees over the next 12 months. America took in 70,000 refugees in total last
year.

Kerry cited post-9/11 security concerns and lack of funding from Congress to
broaden background checks as the reason America couldn't handle more.

"We're doing what we know we can manage immediately," he said.

Meanwhile, 13 asylum seekers died Sunday, and an additional 27 were missing,
when their boat collided with a ferry near the Greek island of Lesbos.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NLVL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 Daily News, L.P.


                              16 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                           September 21, 2015 Monday
                                 METRO EDITION

Help is on way Kerry: U.S. to let in thousands more Syrians

BYLINE: BY GINGER ADAMS OTIS NEW YORK DAILY NEWS With News Wire Services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 374 words


THOUSANDS OF refugees will get a new lease on life in America, Secretary of
State Kerry said Sunday - with as many as 100,000 coming to the U.S. by 2017.

Speaking at a meeting with Germany's foreign minister in Berlin, Kerry said the
U.S. will allow 85,000 refugees from around the world to resettle in America
next year.

The majority of them would be from Syria, he said.

The total number of refugees would rise to 100,000 by 2017 - with some coming
from war-torn parts of Africa, Kerry said.

The White House had previously said it would allow 10,000 additional Syrian
refugees over the next 12 months. America took in 70,000 last year.

Kerry cited post-9/11 security concerns and lack of funding from Congress to
broaden background checks as the reason America couldn't handle more.

"We're doing what we know we can manage immediately," he said.

His words got a rapid response from Sen. Charles Grassley (R-Iowa) and Rep. Bob
Goodlatte (R-Va.), who head the judiciary committees in Congress.

"The administration has essentially given the American people a 'trust me.' That
isn't good enough," the lawmakers said.

Kerry's comments came amid news of yet another migrant tragedy in the Aegean
Sea.

Thirteen asylum seekers died Sunday, and an additional 27 were missing, when
their boat collided with a ferry near the Greek island of Lesbos, authorities
said.

Rescue boats plucked 29 refugees from the choppy waters - the second time in as
many days emergency craft had to be deployed.

A 5-year-old girl drowned and as many as 12 were missing Saturday when another
boat carrying migrants capsized near Lesbos.

Refugees have been braving the dangerous crossing rather than risk war and
terror at home.

But the situation in Europe is increasingly tenuous for the hordes of migrants
headed there.

Hungary, the main point of entry on land, shut its border with Serbia on Sept.
15 - setting off a stampede to the borders of Croatia and Slovenia as desperate
migrants looked for another way to cross into the European Union.

Thousands are on the move all over southeastern Europe as authorities struggle
to respond.

And 11,000 migrants crossed from Hungary into Austria in the 24-hour period
ended at midnight Saturday, with at least an additional 7,000 expected Sunday.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Syrian woman and child on Greek island of Lesbos. At least 13 others
didn't get that far, killed when their boat collided with ferry of isle's coast.
REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 Daily News, L.P.


                              17 of 996 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                             May 8, 2013 Wednesday
                                National Edition

The Middle east's other refugees

BYLINE: Shimon Koffler Fogel, National Post

SECTION: ISSUES & IDEAS; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 810 words


The years following the 1948 Arab-Israeli war witnessed a massive dislocation of
civilians in the Middle east. As one contemporary observer described the refugee
situation: "Hundreds of thousands of men, women and children were concentrated
in tents in transit camps ...There was no privacy, and conditions were
appalling. An embryonic educational system for children was established, but
they suffered from the intense heat and dust in the summer, and wallowed in the
mud in winter rains. At one stage, there was no grain whatsoever left, and no
money to pay for a shipment due to arrive from America."

The refugee camps described above were to be found not in Lebanon or Syria, but
rather in the then-nascent state of Israel. The observer was Chaim Herzog, who
would go on to become Israel's sixth President. And the refugee children were
Jews who'd come from Arab lands. They represented the youngest of nearly a
million Jews forced to flee a swath of majority-Muslim countries stretching from
Morocco to Iraq. In the latter case, the departure of 130,000 Iraqi Jews, who
had been driven to poverty thanks to Baghdad's confiscation of Jewish property,
marked the end of a vibrant community that had thrived for no fewer than 2,500
years.

Thousands of refugees from French-speaking North Africa made their way to France
and Montreal in the 1950s and 60s. Others went to Europe and the United States.
But the overwhelming majority of these Jewish refugees rebuilt their lives in
Israel. Ten years after the Jewish state's establishment, Israel's refugee
camps, once bursting at the seams, became obsolete and were shut down. every
last refugee had been resettled and, despite facing the same economic and social
challenges felt by newcomers the world over, were integrated as citizens.

This was achieved (remarkably so, given that this was then a state of only about
1-million people) with little international fanfare. Indeed, since 1950, the UN
has provided Jewish refugees with a grand total of $35,000 in funds (compared to
$13.7 billion for Palestinian refugees).

Ironically, it is Israel's success in integrating Jewish refugees from the
Middle east that has relegated their tragic dislocation to the footnotes of
history. There are no UN agencies or documentary filmmakers to take an interest
in these refugees because they no longer exist.

The reverse has been true for their Palestinian counterparts, many of whom lived
in camps until their deaths. even for their children and grandchildren, who
inhabit those same camps in Arab nations, the status of "refugee" is inherited
from one generation to the next, in perpetuity - the only instance in
international law in which the UN specifically defines a refugee in such
open-ended terms.

Living in refugee-camp limbo within Arab regimes throughout the region,
Palestinian refugees have not only been denied local Arab citizenship but also
basic rights of employment, housing and social mobility. Arab governments have
presided over the institutionalization of the Palestinian refugee through UNRWA
- the only UN agency today tasked with a single group of refugees.

Any solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict must recognize the plight of
all refugees as a result of the Arab-Israeli conflict - the roughly 856,000 Jews
from Arab lands as well as the 726,000 Palestinians from present-day Israel.
Unfortunately, while Canada's standing policy on Middle east peace recognizes
the latter, it makes no reference to the former. It is also disappointing that,
in its extensive research on refugees around the world, the federally-funded
International development Research Centre (IDRC) has overlooked the situation of
Jews from Arab lands.

This imbalance in Canadian policy (which mirrors similar imbalances in other
countries) stands in sharp contrast to the leadership role Canada has continued
to play on the refugee file since the inception of the Middle east peace
process, as "Gavel Holder" of the multilateral Refugee Working Group. A product
of the 1991 Madrid peace conference, the working group has served as a
complement to bilateral negotiations and as a forum for discussing longer-term
issues and possible contributions from the international community to an
effective resolution to the refugee issue.

The House of Commons Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and International
development currently is engaged in studying the issue of Jewish refugees from
Arab lands. This is aground-breaking initiative that, while worthy of our
appreciation, will represent a meaningful initiative only if it leads to a
formal recognition of Jewish refugees in Canada's foreign policy on the Middle
east.

As Paul Martin said when he was Prime Minister: A refugee is a refugee. The
situation of Jewish refugees from Arab lands must be recognized.

Shimon Koffler Fogel is CEO of the Centre for Israel and Jewish Affairs.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Israeli National Archive; A Yemenite family walks through the desert to
a reception camp set up by the "Joint" near Arden.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2013 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 996 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                            June 17, 2009 Wednesday
                                National Edition

UN ranks Canada fifth as global refugee host; Six times as many refugees per
capita as U.S.

BYLINE: Steven Edwards, Canwest News Service

SECTION: CANADA; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 481  words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS


Canada is home to almost six times as many refugees and asylum seekers per
capita as the United States, but is still behind four other developed countries
as a host, United Nations statistics released yesterday show.

Sweden, Norway, Austria and Germany proportionately come out ahead of Canada as
developed-world destinations for people uprooted by war or discrimination,
according to the UN refugee agency's 2008 Global Trends.

But it also shows that many of the world's 42 million refugees are now trying to
settle in emerging economies, as developed countries tighten acceptance rules.

South Africa receives one-quarter of all applications -- the most of any
country.

In a video yesterday, actress Angelina Jolie highlights the plight of refugees
in camps and other facilities in developing countries, which host 80% of the
total.

She calls them the "most vulnerable people on Earth."

Ms. Jolie, whose six children with actor Brad Pitt include three adopted in the
developing world, urges viewers not to look away as images cross the screen of
refugees.

In Canada, Global Television will air the spot, which will mark World Refugee
Day on Saturday.

"We are grateful for this chance to remind people that refugees are no different
from others who aspire to a better life," said Abraham Abraham, the refugee
agency's chief representative in Canada.

In Ottawa, the office of Immigration Minister Jason Kenney responded to the new
statistics by renewing an earlier call to overhaul Canada's refugee acceptance
system. Mr. Kenney has said it is open to "systematic abuse."

"We need to look at options to deter unfounded claims, to speed up the appeals
and removals process so that bogus asylum seekers don't clog our system," said
Alykhan Velshi, Mr. Kenney's spokesman.

"Doing this will allow us to increase our processing of genuine refugees,
individuals and families that face real persecution."

For its part, the Canadian government has given the UN agency $51-million this
year, the highest-ever annual contribution.

While the United States is far down the per-capita scale for accepting refugees,
it remains the developed world's biggest recipient of displaced people because
of its size.

It hosted almost 350,000 last year, while Canada -- whose population is about 10
times smaller --hosted almost 228,000.

Most of the world's refugees were in Pakistan, which hosted 1.8 million. Next
was Syria, with 1.1 million, followed by Iran with 980,000.

The 2008 figure marked a slight drop from the previous year, but agency chief
Antonio Guterres warned that crises in 2009 have already made up the difference.

"We've seen substantial new displacements in Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Somalia,"
he said.

Only 604,000 people who had fled their respective countries were repatriated,
marking a drop of 17% from the previous year. Only 1.4 million "internally
displaced people" went home, translating into a 34% drop.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2009 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                   The Star Phoenix (Saskatoon, Saskatchewan)

                            June 17, 2009 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

UN releases refugee report

BYLINE: Canwest News Service

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. D8

LENGTH: 179  words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS


Canada is home to almost six times as many refugees and asylum seekers per
capita as the United States, but is still behind four other developed countries
as a host, United Nations statistics released Tuesday show.

Sweden, Norway, Austria and Germany proportionately come out ahead of Canada as
developed-world destinations for people uprooted by war or discrimination,
according to the UN refugee agency's 2008 Global Trends.

But it also shows that many of the world's 42 million refugees are now trying to
settle in emerging economies, as developed countries tighten acceptance rules.

South Africa receives one-quarter of all applications -- the most of any
country.

In Ottawa, the office of Immigration Minister Jason Kenney responded to the new
statistics by renewing an earlier call to overhaul Canada's refugee acceptance
system. Kenney has said it is open to "systematic abuse."

"We need to look at options to deter unfounded claims, to speed up the appeals
and removals process so that bogus asylum seekers don't clog our system," said
Alykhan Velshi, Kenney's spokesperson.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2009 The Star Phoenix, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                  Times Colonist (Victoria, British Columbia)

                            June 17, 2009 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Canada near top of refugee havens; Only four countries accept more
asylum-seekers, UN says

BYLINE: Steven Edwards, Canwest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 324  words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS


Canada is home to almost six times as many refugees and asylum seekers per
capita as the United States, but is still behind four other developed countries
as a host, United Nations statistics released yesterday show.

Sweden, Norway, Austria and Germany proportionately come out ahead of Canada as
developed-world destinations for people uprooted by war or discrimination,
according to the UN refugee agency's 2008 Global Trends.

But it also shows that many of the world's 42 million refugees are now trying to
settle in emerging economies, as developed countries tighten acceptance rules.

South Africa receives a quarter of all applications -- the most of any country.

In a video yesterday, actor Angelina Jolie highlights the plight of refugees in
camps and other facilities in developing countries, which host 80 per cent of
the total. She calls them the "most vulnerable people on earth."

Jolie, whose six children with actor Brad Pitt include three adopted in the
developing world, urges viewers not to look away as images cross the screen of
refugees.

In Canada, Global Television has aired the spot, which will mark World Refugee
Day on Saturday.

In Ottawa, the office of Immigration Minister Jason Kenney responded to the new
statistics by renewing an earlier call to overhaul Canada's refugee acceptance
system. Kenney has said it is open to "systematic abuse."

"We need to look at options to deter unfounded claims, to speed up the appeals
and removals process so that bogus asylum seekers don't clog our system," said
Alykhan Velshi, Kenney's spokesman.

"Doing this will allow us to increase our processing of genuine refugees,
individuals and families that face real persecution."

For its part, the Canadian government has given the UN agency $51 million this
year, the highest-ever annual contribution.

While the United States is far down the per-capita scale for accepting refugees,
overall it is the world's biggest recipient of displaced people.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: Morris Bernard, Getty Images; Celebrity Angelina Jolie talks to a
woman in a wheelchair two years ago at a refugee camp in Iraq. Canada takes in
more than six times as many refugees per capita as does the U.S. ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2009 Times Colonist, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                              May 25, 2009 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Long-term solution to drug problem means cutting demand, not supply; Buying
drugs is like supplying guns to criminals in deadly drug war, claims refugee
from Colombia

BYLINE: Craig and Marc Kielburger, Special to The Sun

SECTION: CANADA & WORLD; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 646  words


It seemed strange so many people finished their meals together with Colombia's
former-president, César Gaviria.

We sat next to him at a dinner in the Latin American nation when he invited us
outside to continue our conversation. We pushed aside our plates and slowly
rose.

So did another third of the room.

We walked out discussing Gaviria's role in the War on Drugs. He had fought the
powerful Medellin Cartel led by the infamous Pablo Escobar. During his
presidential campaign, candidates had a better chance of being assassinated than
elected. Gaviria felt that sting personally. His sister was murdered in 2006.

That's when it became clear the people walking with us weren't there by
coincidence. They were a security escort. Gaviria explained the drug trade might
be Latin America's issue, but it's North America's problem.

From cocaine in Colombia to opium in Afghanistan to marijuana in West Africa,
the drug trade is a dangerous world. Since mid-January, we have felt this
violence in British Columbia's 20 gang-related murders. These incidents are
rightly appalling, but only a taste of what Latin America and other wartorn
nations have experienced for decades.

Gaviria now advises Mexico on dealing with its 10,000 drug-related murders since
2006. That's how he has come to the conclusion that the only stability in this
violent business comes from North American demand.

Our strategy in the War on Drugs has traditionally been to cut off supply.
Aircraft locate coca farms and drop a powerful herbicide on the plants. This
successfully kills the coca crop and everything else, including legal crops such
as bananas, coffee and other livelihood-providers for poor farmers.

Despite such treatment of more than 130,000 hectares in 2005 alone, the CIA says
growers began to aggressively replant new terrain, virtually cancelling out
earlier efforts.

It's the steady North American demand that makes this replanting so lucrative.
The annual profit for a hectare of coffee, one of Colombia's main exports, is
estimated at about $500, while coca will bring in $5,000.

For one young woman, that difference makes what to plant a no-brainer.

"The farmers are thinking, 'My kids are starving,'" says Carolina Arcila, a
26-year-old Colombian refugee. "If someone tells you to plant a legal crop and
get paid nothing, why would you?"

Unlike students in Canada or the United States, Arcila explained, while growing
up in Colombia she never saw cocaine in her high school. She did, however, see
its effects.

As a teenager, she met returned child soldiers who told her about the
brainwashing tactics of the guerrilla armies. She also spoke with individuals
who had been kidnapped. One man was tied to a tree for seven months and guarded
by a group of soldiers her own age.

Two weeks before her family fled to Canada as refugees, three of Arcila's
school-aged friends were kidnapped.

All atrocities in the name of the drug trade. But it wasn't until Arcila got to
Canada that she actually saw the narcotic.

That's when the bubbly young woman with a seemingly permanent smile got mad.

"Do you understand that when you buy cocaine here, you're giving money to war?"
she asked. "It's the same as just handing them a gun."

But guns are exactly what we used in the past -- and it's what we're currently
working with. In April, President Barack Obama requested $80 million for Black
Hawk helicopters to help Mexico fight its growing drug cartels.

As Gaviria stepped into his bullet-proof SUV, his exasperation came out. The man
is understandably tired.

Tired of watching his people die. Tired of the negative portrayals of his
country. Tired of no one taking responsibility for our demand.

That's where the long-term solution is. He's just tired of waiting.

Craig and Marc Kielburger co-founded Free the Children. The goal of the
organization is to free children from poverty and exploitation through
education.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2009 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             Windsor Star (Ontario)

                           September 24, 2007 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Refugee claims disputed; Mexican consul says his nation is democratic and safe
but asylum-seekers disagree

BYLINE: Roberta Pennington, Windsor Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 797  words


The Consular Agency of Mexico in Leamington defended its country's reputation
Sunday after several recently arrived Mexicans blamed their homeland's corrupt
government, powerful criminal gangs and economically poor conditions as grounds
for being granted refugee status in Canada.

"We are a democratic country," Mexican consul Alberto Acosta said Sunday of his
homeland. "We have elections to elect all the authorities of the municipality to
the federal authorities. We have laws, we have the constitution, we have all the
laws every country has."

But many of the 200-plus Mexicans who have been flooding across Windsor's border
by the busload in recent weeks say they're migrating north to avoid deportation
to their native land, which they consider inhospitable because of its criminal
and corrupt elements.

Melina Ochoa, 28, who arrived in Windsor Monday with her 31-year-old husband
Javier and three children, said she lived in the United States for the past nine
years after fleeing a life of destitution and danger in Mexico.

As authorities in Florida, where the Ochoas lived until recently, started
cracking down on illegal immigrants like her, Melina said the family couldn't
risk being sent back because of the "insecurity and the violence, the
kidnappings" in Mexico.

"There are a lot of kidnappings," Ochoa said, sitting on the balcony of a
Windsor motel with her family and a handful of other Mexicans, all hoping to
start a stable new life in Canada.

"They kidnap the children to take out their organs and sell them," chimed in
49-year-old Yolanda Contreras, who also arrived on a bus with her husband a week
ago and is awaiting placement in an apartment with the help of city social
services.

Security, above all else, was the reason this group gave for taking the drastic
measure of abandoning their Floridian lives to start anew in Canada.

"What would you rather have?" Ochoa's husband Javier asked, "Safety or money?"

Acosta said his fellow nationals can achieve both in their homeland. Mexico, he
said, with its population more than 100 million, is not any more or less
dangerous or stable than any other Central or South American country with a
large population.

And, it's true, he said, in the country's more rural areas there are problems
with poverty, which is driving many Mexicans to look for employment elsewhere.

"That doesn't mean the people are dying because they have no money and they have
nothing to eat," Acosta said. "It's not true. In Mexico, the people can eat, the
people are not starving as in Africa."

The country has an underemployment rate of about 25 per cent, according to the
CIA World Factbook, with 40 per cent of the population living below the poverty
line.

Javier's family may not have been starving, he said, but with a salary of $30 a
week working long hours on a farm, he couldn't help but dream of a better life
for himself and his family in the United States. But the recent threat of
deportation was riskier than starting his life over in Canada, he said.

Acosta said there is nothing his Leamington office can do to help the recent
arrivals -- estimated to be about 220 to date and projected to grow to up to
7,000 -- gain refugee status.

"The consulate is not going to intervene in any way," Acosta said. "If they are
claiming for refugee we can't do nothing because it's them with the government
of Canada."

He added no refugee-seekers have tried to contact his office, opened in 2005 to
assist the temporary Mexican workers who obtain legal permits to work in the
local greenhouses.

The new arrivals apparently have also not reached out to the Migrant
Agricultural Workers Support Centre in Leamington, said Mary Vidal, who helps
run the program along with her husband Dan Raper. Vidal said a meeting will be
held this week with the organization's directors to determine how the agency
should proceed if the Mexicans seek help.

"As of yet, we haven't had any," Vidal said.

Meanwhile, the number of refugee-seekers who have filed through the doors of the
YMCA of Windsor and Essex County has nearly doubled compared with last year,
said director Jacquie Rumiel.

From April 2006 through March 31, 2007, the centre helped 319 refugee-seekers.
Since April 1, 2007, the Newcomers Settlement Program has had 512 refugee
claimants come in for help. Many -- 230 -- came in this month alone.

"We've been very busy," she said.

This past weekend, however, was an exception, Rumiel said. No new Mexicans
seeking asylum visited the office.

Most of the local motels which were housing new Mexican arrivals were also quiet
and emptier this weekend as many of the families had been moved to temporary
housing with the help of local agencies. The downtown Salvation Army residence,
where groups of Mexican men could usually be seen on the front lawn, was also
quiet.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: Alberto Acosta ;
Colour Photo: Melina Ochoa ;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2007 Windsor Star, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                  Times Colonist (Victoria, British Columbia)

                            January 6, 2007 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Somali troops gear up for attack on militia: Refugees flee war zone, chaos
leaves humanitarian aid in limbo

BYLINE: Mike Blanchfield, CanWest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 487  words


The crisis in the Horn of Africa escalated yesterday as a top al-Qaeda leader
urged an Iraqi-style insurgency against Somali and Ethiopian troops preparing
for a major assault to finish off the Islamist militia.

Amid the chaos, the humanitarian group CARE pleaded for a speedy resolution so
aid could be delivered to 1.8 million displaced people inside the war-torn
country, while American, African and European Union leaders called for a major
international intervention at a summit in Kenya.

But easing the suffering will not be easy, given the Kenyan government has
closed its border with Somalia to prevent remnants of the Union of Islamic
Courts from disappearing into northern Kenya's refugee camps. U.S. warships
continued to the patrol Somalia's Indian Ocean coast to block that escape route.

"Yes, the closure of the border does present problems. But at this point in time
the government of Kenya has legitimate security concerns," CARE Canada's East
African emergency co-ordinator Leslye Rost van Tonningen said in an interview
from the Kenyan capital, Nairobi.

"The issue is being able to adequately screen and ensure that people coming into
the camps are true refugees and that there's not a flow of small arms."

Northern Kenya is home to the Dadaab refugee camps, which since the fall of
Somalia's government 15 years ago, have swelled to 175,000 people, and would
provide an ideal hiding ground for fleeing militants. This year alone, 35,000
Somalis have poured over the border, many since the UIC took power six months
ago after instituting its Taliban-style version of Shariah law. They were driven
out last week by the Ethiopian-backed Somalia military force. The United Nations
says thousands more innocent civilians are massing near the Kenyan border in an
effort to flee the carnage.

The U.S. has accused the new fundamentalist Islamic militia of having ties to
the al-Qaeda terrorist group, including harbouring three men responsible for the
1998 U.S. Embassy bombings in Kenya and Tanzania that left hundreds dead. The
UIC has denied the charge.

Those denials were cast into doubt on yesterday when one of Osama bin Laden's
al-Qaeda deputies released a recorded message urging Islamists to mount a
"martyrdom" campaign against the Ethiopian and Somali forces that defeated them
last week in conventional warfare. The message from Ayman al-Zawahri urged the
use of ambushes, mines, raids, and suicide attacks.

Even though Somalia has a large Christian population, he drew parallels with the
Islamist insurgencies against the West in Iraq and Afghanistan.

"As the world's most powerful power in the world has been defeated in
Afghanistan and Iraq by the believer groups, who will go to heaven, its slaves
will be defeated, God willing, on the land of mujahed Muslim Somalia," said the
statement, which could not be independently verified, but was released on an
Islamist website that has carried similar messages.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2007 Times Colonist, a division of Canwest MediaWorks Publication Inc.

                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                      The Halifax Daily News (Nova Scotia)

                             October 2, 2005 Sunday

Worth the risk

BYLINE: Gwynne Dyer

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 600  words


It is rapidly getting worse on the Spanish-Moroccan border. Three times in the
past week, mobs of "refugees" have assaulted the fences that surround Ceuta and
Melilla in an attempt to break into the European Union, and at least eight of
them have died. Organized groups of up to 500 young African men have been
storming the three- metre-high border fences by night with home-made scaling
ladders, hoping that in the confusion most will make it across.

Several hundred did, though not without damage: Ceuta's hospitals reported at
least 50 refugees with broken limbs or deep cuts. Some didn't make it: one bled
to death after his neck was caught on the razor-wire, another was trampled in
the crowd, others were allegedly killed by rubber bullets fired by Spanish
police.

Spain is rushing extra troops to Ceuta and Melilla - and on the return trip to
the Spanish mainland, the ferries carry some of the successful "refugees" across
the Strait of Gibraltar into Europe. With no further border checks, they could
be in Stockholm in a week.

They aren't really refugees, of course; they are economic migrants.

They are not Moroccans, either. The vast majority come from sub- Saharan Africa,
where the poverty is much worse and some desperate people are literally willing
to risk their lives to make it into Europe. One young man, typical of those who
stormed the fences in Ceuta last Thursday, set out from Guinea more than two
years ago and travelled through Senegal, Mali and Algeria to reach Morocco and a
chance to crash the border into Ceuta or Melilla. (The two enclaves on the
northern Moroccan coast, Spanish for more than four centuries, are the EU's only
land frontier with Africa.)

What does this spectacle of human misery and desperation remind you of? Why, the
only other place where a developed Western country has a land frontier with a
poor country: the border between the United States and Mexico.

That border is hundreds of times longer than the twin fences, only 10 km long,
that surround Ceuta and Melilla, so the bands of desperate economic migrants
from Mexico and Central America have no need for scaling ladders. They just have
to avoid US border patrols and not die of heat and thirst in the desert. Every
day, thousands make it. Every week, hundreds die.

The US government could build and man an effective physical barrier along the
whole of the Mexican border, allowing only legal immigrants to pass through, for
a tenth of what it is spending this year in Iraq. Why does it not do so? Sheer
hypocrisy and cynicism: U.S. business and agriculture want the ultra-cheap
workers that only illegal immigration provides, but the government must make a
show of trying to protect the border (without being too efficient about it). So
potential illegal immigrants know that those who survive the crossing will find
work, and they keep coming.

At the moment, much the same applies in Spain, where the current (incredibly
stupid) law says that the police can only deport illegal immigrants if it proves
their identity and nationality before a court within 40 days. So the illegals,
knowing this, destroy their documents, and after 40 days they are free to go
anywhere in the "Schengen zone," including France, Germany, Italy, the Low
Countries and much of Scandinavia. No wonder they keep coming.

Spain will probably change that stupid law one of these days, because its
economy does not actually depend heavily on below- minimum-wage illegal
immigrants. It will take a lot longer in the United States.

Gwynne Dyer is a London-based independent journalist whose articles are
published in 45 countries.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: After effects: An African immigrant injured his hand from scaling razor
wire around the enclave of Melilla.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2005 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                               September 27, 2005

CHEERS FOR A CLOWN!

BYLINE: Vanessa Conneely

LENGTH: 348 words


(Photograph) - THERE was plenty of clowning around yesterday as Ireland's
community heroes were celebrated.

Kids' entertainer Johnie K, front, was one of 16 kindhearts who picked up gongs
for their work helping others.

Johnie - John Patrick Kavanagh - has put a smile on the faces of kids in
orphanages in Bosnia, Russia and Romania for the last 10 years.

The 47-year-old Dubliner has also set up programmes for schools teaching kids
about refugees in a bid to combat racism.

"Laughter heals everything," said the big-hearted dad. Ireland has a lot of
problems with racism towards refugees and asylum seekers.

"So I talk to children and show kids pictures of places I have been.

"I explain what exactly makes a refugee and tell them about Irish people who had
to flee their homes during the Great Famine.

Dedicated

"Educating children nips any bad feelings towards foreigners in the bud."

Another hero getting one of the Social Entrepreneurs' Awards was Tara
Cunningham, right with awards' vice president Maurice Healy.

The speech therapist is so dedicated to her job she even worked from her
hospital bed hours before giving birth to her son.

The 31-year-old American, who moved over here two years ago, set up her own
school for kids with language difficulties.

She was jolted into action after seeing the dismal lack of services for kids in
Ireland.

Tara said: "The Health Service Executive can only offer parents of children with
learning disabilities up to six hours of care a year.

"So we offer 45 hours speech therapy for a third of the cost of what a person
would pay privately.

"It's Euro 33 an hour but the average cost is Euro 115 an hour."

Also picking up her gong was Salome Mbugua Henry, left. The Kenyan mum of two,
who now lives in Portarlington, Co Offaly, has worked tirelessly to help African
women over here.

A qualified social worker, she set up the African Women's Network.

She has also helped tackle issues surrounding religious beliefs, political
problems and the legal status of Africans in Ireland.


LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD


                              26 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                               September 7, 2005

NEW GOAL FOR OUTSPOKEN JOHN

BYLINE: Paddy Clancy

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 594 words


JOHN O'Shea has saved many lives because he is a pain in the neck.

The mouthy GOAL third world relief agency founder often gets things done simply
because he says it as he sees it.

His forthright manner which often verges on being rude isn't everybody's cup of
tea.

But thousands who can't even afford a cuppa would have died if he didn't heckle,
harass, induce, embarrass, and even con some of the most influential people on
the planet into digging deep for the neediest of the needy.

So long as he breathes, GOAL and its sole function - to save the lives of the
most vulnerable on the planet - will always be in your face.

He's so determined never to miss an opportunity to highlight the plight of
millions dying from starvation and disease that he's reputed to have gruffly
told a young nurse on her first assignment in hostile territory to be sure to
let the Press Office know if she was kidnapped by bandits.

Since GOAL was founded 28 years ago, O'Shea has sent 1,100 volunteers - GOALies
- to work in the developing world alongside more than 2,000 local staff. He has
raised and spent over Euro 300million on the delivery of aid to street children
in the slums of Calcutta and Nairobi, to HIV victims throughout Africa, to
starving and homeless refugees of tyranny.

He ruthlessly operates a policy that administration costs are no more than five
per cent.

It's a record of which O'Shea and GOAL are rightly proud.

He has shown he knows how to respond swiftly to disaster and help the victims.

Pittance

So when he says Ireland is squandering money on the victims of Hurricane Katrina
in America's Gulf States we should take notice.

He says the Euro 1million cash the Government has pledged to the most needy in
Louisiana is a pittance to a nation with more billionaires than Ireland has
potatoes.

He's right, of course.

That said, there is also the argument that no matter how wealthy America is
there are still people in desperate need so Ireland's money - little though it
is - will not be wasted.

I agree with that, too.

However, it's not the fault of the suffering that their plight was made even
worse by the appalling inefficiency and tardiness of the response of President
Bush's administration.

O'Shea isn't anti-American. He was, however, being John O'Shea - bluntly saying
that despite the early bungling America has both the resources and ability to
deal with the fallout from Katrina.

The petty cash offered by Ireland could be put to much better use elsewhere. I
agree.

What happened in New Orleans, Biloxi and all those other towns as Katrina roared
through was devastating.

None of us here can come close to imagining the suffering of the victims.

We knew immediately about it, though. We saw the destruction within minutes. We
saw the pain in the eyes of the survivors as they spoke of their experience.

We saw and understood all that because America is the land of instant
communication and its people speak English.

They'll recover from the ordeal. It will take time, money, and a lot of human
pain. But they will eventually get their lives together again.

In deepest Africa, much of Asia and in the jungles of central and South America
there are millions who will never live past their childhood years.

Of course we feel sorry for the people of New Orleans and of course we want to
help.

But we should also try to remember and help the millions elsewhere in stinking
slums and steaming jungles whose suffering is not beamed daily into our living
rooms.


LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD


                              27 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                             March 18, 2005 Friday

Our role in resettlement of refugees

BYLINE: (Senator) AMANDA VANSTONE, Minister for Immigration and Multi-cultural
and Indigenous Affairs, Canberra.

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 282 words


IN her letter ("Innocents to ease conscience", The Advertiser,  yesterday),
Marilyn Shepherd says Australia ignores its obligations under international law
and the rights of asylum seekers by jailing them and then eases its conscience
by importing refugees voluntarily.

Ms Shepherd is confusing two different issues and blurs the fundamental
difference between those that seek to enter Australia illegally and those
refugees who follow the proper channels.

This sleight of hand makes for easy dinner table rhetoric, but it is no basis
for good policy.

With an estimated 17 million people who are refugees or of interest to the UN
High Commissioner for Refugees, it is essential that we are able to offer
resettlement to those in most urgent need who have little prospect of returning
to their home country.

For our resettlement to be based on need, we must have an ordered, fair and
robust immigration program. Every time an unauthorised arrival pays a people
smuggler and is accepted into our refugee program, another person waiting in a
refugee camp in Africa or somewhere else misses out.

Those who seek to denigrate Australia's contribution to the resettlement of
refugees forget that the program has helped more than 600,000 people fleeing
persecution since the 1950s and at least 100,000 in the past decade.

Today, Australia ranks alongside Canada and the US as one of top three countries
in the world offering permanent settlement solutions to refugees in most
desperate need.

That's a good news story by anyone's estimation - I would hope even Ms
Shepherd's.

(Senator) AMANDA VANSTONE,

Minister for Immigration and Multi-cultural and Indigenous Affairs,

Canberra.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              28 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                            August 17, 2004 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Massacre survivors bury victims of Hutu attack: 163 Tutsis slaughtered at UN
refugee camp

BYLINE: Citizen News Services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 422  words

DATELINE: GATUMBA, Burundi


GATUMBA, Burundi - Survivors of a massacre at a United Nations-run refugee camp
buried 163 Congolese Tutsis in a dusty cotton field yesterday, wailing in
anguish over the latest spasm in ethnic conflicts that have killed millions over
the past decade in central Africa.

As simple wooden coffins were lowered into a trench, survivors of Friday night's
slaughter told of narrow escapes as Hutu marauders rampaged through the Gatumba
camp screaming that they would kill any Tutsi they found.

"I did not dare to breathe heavily or even raise my head to see what was
happening," said Domitien Ikora, who hid in a ditch during the three-hour
assault. He heard the attackers "lobbing grenades, shooting, hacking and
stabbing to death the children, women and others who were not quick enough to
flee."

The attackers beat drums and blew horns as they "went into each hut to slaughter
occupants and burned what they could not loot," said Mr. Ikora, who lost 14
family members.

Women wept and some people fainted in the hot sun as the rudimentary caskets
were lowered into the mass grave. Many people wrapped towels and shirts around
their faces to stave off the stench from decomposing bodies.

Burundian army helicopters circled overhead, underlining fears of renewed
conflict in the Great Lakes region that includes Burundi, Rwanda and eastern
Congo.

In Ottawa, Foreign Affairs Minister Pierre Pettigrew condemned the massacre.
"The government of Canada strongly condemns this horrible attack, and the
citizens of Canada join me in expressing their condolences to the families of
the victims," he said in a statement.

Conflicts between Hutus, who comprise a majority in Burundi and Rwanda, and
Tutsis, a minority in those two countries and the eastern Congo, have wracked
the region for more than a decade, spawning a civil war in Burundi, the 1994
Rwandan genocide and a five-year war in Congo.

The fighting in Congo mostly ended in 2003, but former rebels and government
loyalists continue to clash in the east.

The massacre threatens to jeopardize efforts to restore peace in Congo, warned
Congolese Vice-President Azarias Ruberwa, a former rebel leader who attended the
funeral along with Burundian President Domitien Ndayizeye.

"This is a real genocide," said Mr. Ruberwa, who is a Tutsi. The victims "were
killed simply because of the fact they were Congolese Tutsis."

A Burundian Hutu rebel group, the National Liberation Forces, said its fighters
staged the attack, claiming Burundian soldiers and Congolese Tutsi militiamen
were hiding at the camp.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2004 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      Sunday Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                              July 4, 2004 Sunday

Fortress Australia - Pentagon report warns of climate refugee flood

BYLINE: Daryl Passmore

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 485 words


AUSTRALIA may have to become a fortress to keep out thousands of refugees
fleeing the devastating effects of climate change, a US Pentagon report warns.

It sets out the security implications of a sudden change in the global
temperatures and weather patterns leading to famine and mass migrations.

"Disruption and conflict will be endemic features of life," it predicts, saying
military confrontations over natural resources will replace wars triggered by
ideology or religion.

And it highlights Australia as a likely target for desperate individuals and
hostile countries whose sources of food, water and energy have been ravaged.

"The United States and Australia are likely to build defensive fortresses around
their countries because they have the resources and reserves to achieve
self-sufficiency," it said.

The report, An Abrupt Climate Change Scenario And It's Implications for United
States National Security, was commissioned by the head of the Pentagon's Office
of Net Assessment, Andrew Marshall, in October. Known as "Yoda" in defence
circles, he is in charge of planning for future warfare needs.

Authors Peter Schwartz and Doug Randall concluded the risk of sudden climate
change "should be elevated beyond a scientific debate to a US national security
concern".

They say that although the scenario they use is extreme, it is "quite
plausible".

It is based on an event 8200 years ago which changed climatic patterns for about
a century.

It raises the prospect of the "thermohaline circulation" -- the oceanic conveyor
belt that carries warm water to the North Atlantic -- collapsing as soon as 2010
due to global warming.

Within 10 to 20 years, average temperatures in Northern Europe, North America
and Asia would fall by up to 3C while those in Australia, South America and
southern Africa rose by 2C.

The results, spreading across an increasingly wide area, would be mega-droughts
in some areas while others had unprecedented flooding. Winds and storms would
intensify.

While Australia would initially become a major supplier of food to the world, it
would become harder to keep up with the soaring demand.

Conflicts between nations and civil wars would break out with increasing
frequency as people battled over resources or waves of refugees move around
seeking food and water.

Australia Institute executive director Clive Hamilton says Australia has already
tasted the environmental refugee problem with the government of the Pacific
island of Tuvalu appealing to us in 2001 to accept its 10,000 population over
the next couple of decades as it is expected to be one of the first nations to
disappear under rising sea levels.

He says the report should be a red alert for the Government. "Not even the most
rabid greenie would paint such a picture but this comes direct from the
Pentagon. We have to take this very, very seriously."

passmored@qnp.newsltd.com.au

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: SML

                   Copyright 2004 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              30 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 7, 2003

Guinea - small country with big voice;states of indecision

BYLINE: Aaron Hicklin

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 332 words


IT is one of the 15 poorest countries in the world, overwhelmed by refugees from
neighbouring Liberia and Sierra Leone, and ruled by an ailing leader who has
been in power since 1984.

It is the beauty of the UN, therefore, that Guinea will have a decisive hand
when the Security Council takes a vote on a new resolution to use force against
Iraq. Officially, the small west African nation of Guinea is still "analysing
the situation"; unofficially, it is a likely supporter of the US.

While the French have been buoyed by indications that Cameroon may swivel to its
position when the time comes, little love is lost between Guinea and its former
colonial power.

In 1958, when the country gained its independence, it refused to join France's
version of the Commonwealth, and the antipathy persists today.

Although it receives French aid, Guinea is dependent on $ 50m of economic and
military assistance from Washington - peanuts compared to the aid that Turkey or
Israel receives, but significant in a country where the average annual income is
$ 490. It could also use the rare attention to increase that contribution
significantly.

"(President Lansana) Conte will hold out for proper aid," said one western
African expert with the UN.

"My guess is they will look towards America as France is pretty discredited in
the region right now, having failed to sort out the Ivory Coast."

As a bonus, the US did agree last month to contribute $ 10m for UN assistance to
refugees in west Africa, most of which will go to the 500,000 refugees in
Guinea.

America has been coy on the subject of whether it is using aid as a tactic in
its furious lobbying of non-permanent members, but Joseph Cirincione, a senior
associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, believes the
independence of UN is being compromised by US arm-twisting.

"This is changing from leading a coalition of the willing to herding together a
coalition of the coerced," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited


                              31 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

                      June 20, 2002 Thursday Final Edition

Swamped by refugees: Claimants camped at Lacolle border crossing, hoping to beat
deadline

SOURCE: The Gazette

BYLINE: ANN CARROLL

SECTION: News; Pg. A1 / FRONT

LENGTH: 656 words

Refugee claimants are camped out at the Canada-U.S. border crossing at Lacolle,
about 60 kilometres south of Montreal, a week before a new federal Immigration
and Refugee Protection Act comes into effect.

Some claimants hope to beat the June 28 deadline for the new law to take effect;
others say they are fleeing political, social and economic problems at home.

By yesterday morning, the Lacolle border station reeked of sweat, diapers and
pizza crusts as 159 claimants hunkered down for the long wait to be processed.

"I hope we can leave soon - I want to find a hot bath and a good bed," said a
Malian man, who had arrived at the border Tuesday and had slept overnight in a
straight chair.

The 41-year-old man, who did not want to be identified, said he left Mali to
escape discrimination and violence against homosexuals like himself.

He had eaten nothing for 24 hours but a $2 slice of pizza from a vending
machine.

"When you don't know how long it (processing) will last, you have to be prudent
with your money."

Border officials finally decided yesterday afternoon to move some of the
claimants - those with valid legal status in the United States - back to
Plattsburgh, N.Y., and other border towns to wait for processing. Community
groups were asked to help with lodging and food.

Robert Gervais, a spokesman for Citizenship and Immigration Canada, said the
refugee deluge at Lacolle had overwhelmed staff - already doubled to 16 - and
available office space.

"We usually get 12-15 refugee claimants a day," Gervais said, noting that
Lacolle is one of the most important Canadian entry points for refugee claimants
because of its proximity to New York City. "Since May 22, we've had 35 a day,
and more are added every day."

Refugee claims at other Canadian border crossings, meanwhile, are generally
down, officials said, though they couldn't explain why.

About one-third of the claimants at Lacolle yesterday came from southeast Asia;
another third were from Latin America and the remainder had arrived from Africa
and elsewhere, Gervais said. Many held visitors' visas for the United States and
arrived at the border by bus, via New York City, or caught a taxi from
Plattsburgh, at a cost of $50 a head.

Where processing claimants - interviews, fingerprinting, filling out forms -
normally takes two to four hours, Gervais noted, refugee claimants already at
the border yesterday faced waits of up to three days.

The crunch at Lacolle was not completely unexpected, Gervais noted. "Every time
there is a major change in the Immigration Act, we see a surge of refugee
claimants before the date of the change."

Among the major changes taking effect next week, Gervais said, is a provision
that limits to one the number of times a person can claim refugee status in
Canada and ask for a hearing before the Immigration and Refugee Board.

While there is no chance for a second hearing by the refugee board, Gervais
noted, the new law allows claimants to ask for a review of their case by a
senior immigration official, on the grounds that they need protection from
torture or other abuse.

A Venezuelan couple who arrived at the border yesterday morning with their two
children, 7 and 11, said they read about Canada on the Internet and hadn't heard
about the new law.

"We are political refugees - our lives are in danger because we oppose our
government," said the husband, a 42-year-old forestry engineer.

Across the room, a Palestinian woman and her three children huddled together and
waited impatiently.

"We're looking for a place of safety, and we heard that Canada was safe and
welcoming," the 37-year-old refugee claimant said. "Going back would be hard,
but going forward depends on them (immigration agents)."

- For information about the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act, check the
Web site at www.cic.gc.ca.

- Ann Carroll's E-mail address is acarroll@thegazette.southam.ca.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Color Photo: DAVE SIDAWAY, GAZETTE; Families squeeze into Canada
Customs offices at the Lacolle border crossing, where they face waits of up to
three days for processing of refugee claims. New regulations on refugee
applications come into effect in a week.

               Copyright 2002 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                             National Post (Canada)

                     June 20, 2002 Thursday Toronto Edition

Migrants flood border to beat new rules: 'Every time there is a major change in
the Immigration Act, we see a surge of refugee claimants': Lacolle, Que.

SOURCE: The Gazette

BYLINE: Ann Carroll

SECTION: Canada; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 550 words

DATELINE: MONTREAL

MONTREAL - More than 100 refugee claimants swamped a Canada-U.S. border crossing
last night, hoping to beat a deadline next week for a new federal immigration
and refugee law.

The men, women and children were camped out at the Lacolle crossing, about 60
kilometres south of Montreal, a week before the Immigration and Refugee
Protection Act comes into effect on June 29.

The new law will allow a person to claim refugee status in Canada only once and
ask for a hearing before the Immigration and Refugee Board.

While there is no chance for a second hearing, officials say the new law allows
claimants to ask for a review of their case by a senior immigration official.

By yesterday, the Lacolle border station reeked of sweat, diapers and pizza
crusts as 159 claimants hunkered down for the long wait to be processed.

"I hope we can leave soon -- I want to find a hot bath and a good bed," said a
man originally from Mali, who arrived at the border Tuesday and slept overnight
in a chair.

The 41-year-old man, who did not want to be identified, said he left Mali to
escape discrimination and violence against homosexuals.

He said he had eaten nothing for 24 hours but a $2 slice of pizza from a vending
machine. "When you don't know how long it [processing] will last, you have to be
prudent with your money."

Border officials decided yesterday afternoon to move some of the claimants --
those with legal status in the United States -- back to nearby Plattsburgh,
N.Y., and other U.S. border towns to wait for processing.

Robert Gervais, a spokesman for Immigration Canada, said the lineup of refugees
had overwhelmed the 16 staff at the Lacolle crossing and overflowed the
available office space.

"We usually get 12 to 15 refugee claimants a day," Mr. Gervais said. "Since May
22, we've had 35 a day, and more are added every day."

Mr. Gervais said Lacolle is one of the most important Canadian entry points for
refugee claimants because of its proximity to New York City. Refugee claims at
other Canadian border crossings, were generally down, officials said.

About a third of the claimants at Lacolle yesterday came from southeast Asia,
another third were from Latin America and the remainder had arrived from Africa
and elsewhere, Mr. Gervais said.

Many held visitors' visas for the United States and arrived at the border by bus
from New York or by taxi from Plattsburgh.

Processing refugee claimants --interviewing, fingerprinting, and filling out
forms -- normally takes four hours at most, Mr. Gervais said.

Because of the sudden rush, he said the claimants at the border yesterday faced
waits of up to three days.

The lineup at Lacolle was not completely unexpected, Mr. Gervais said. "Every
time there is a major change in the Immigration Act, we see a surge of refugee
claimants before the date of the change."

A Venezuelan couple who arrived at the border crossing yesterday morning with
their two children, aged 7 and 11, said they read about Canada on the Internet
and had not heard about the new refugee law.

"We are political refugees -- our lives are in danger because we oppose our
government," said the husband, a 42-year-old forestry engineer.

For information about the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act, check the Web
site at www.cic.gc.ca.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Black & White Photo: Dave Sidaway, The Gazette; Refugee claimants
coming via the United States have arrived in unusually large numbers at Lacolle,
Que. Some of them have been sleeping on the floor of the customs office.

TYPE: News

               Copyright 2002 National Post, All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                      June 20, 2002 Thursday Final Edition

Refugee claimants camping out at Quebec border: They are trying to beat the
deadline for introduction of new immigration rules

SOURCE: The Montreal Gazette

BYLINE: Ann Carroll

SECTION: News; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 591 words

DATELINE: LACOLLE, Que.

LACOLLE, Que. -- Refugee claimants are camped out at the Canada-U.S. border
crossing at Lacolle, about 60 kilometres south of Montreal, a week before a new
federal Immigration and Refugee Protection Act comes into effect.

Some claimants hope to beat the June 28 deadline for the new law to take effect;
others say they are fleeing political, social and economic problems at home.

By Wednesday morning 159 claimants hunkered down for the long wait to be
processed.

"I hope we can leave soon -- I want to find a hot bath and a good bed," said a
Malian man, who had arrived at the border Tuesday and had slept overnight in a
chair.

The 41-year-old, who did not want to be identified, said he left Mali to escape
discrimination and violence against homosexuals like himself.

Border officials finally decided Wednesday afternoon to move claimants with
valid legal status in the U.S. back to Plattsburgh, N.Y., and other border towns
to wait for processing. Community groups were asked to help with lodging and
food.

Robert Gervais, a spokesman for Citizenship and Immigration Canada, said the
refugee deluge at Lacolle has overwhelmed staff, which has already been doubled
to 16, and available office space.

"We usually get 12-15 refugee claimants a day," Gervais said, noting that
Lacolle is one of the most important Canadian entry points for refugee claimants
because of its proximity to New York City. "Since May 22, we've had 35 a day and
more are added every day."

Refugee claims at other Canadian crossings are generally down, officials said,
though they couldn't explain why.

About a third of the claimants at Lacolle Wednesday came from southeast Asia,
another third were from Latin America and the remainder had arrived from Africa
and elsewhere, Gervais said.

Many held visitors' visas for the U.S. and arrived at the border by bus via New
York City or caught a taxi from Plattsburgh at a cost of $50 a head.

Where it usually takes two to four hours to process claimants, Gervais noted,
refugee claimants already at the border Wednesday faced waits of up to three
days. The processing includes interviews, fingerprinting, and filling out forms.

The refugee crunch at Lacolle this month was not completely unexpected, Gervais
noted.

"Every time there is a major change in the Immigration Act, we see a surge of
refugee claimants before the date of the change," he said.

Among the important changes to the law taking effect next week is a provision
that limits to one the number of times a person can claim refugee status in
Canada and ask for a hearing before the Immigration and Refugee Board, Gervais
said.

While there is no chance for a second hearing by the refugee board, the new law
allows claimants to ask for a review of their case by a senior immigration
official on the grounds that they need protection from torture or other abuse,
Gervais noted.

A Venezuelan couple who arrived at the border crossing Wednesday morning with
their two children, 7 and 11, said they read about Canada on the Internet and
hadn't heard about the new refugee law.

"We are political refugees -- our lives are in danger because we oppose our
government," said the husband, a 42-year-old forestry engineer.

Across the room, a Palestinian woman and her three children huddled together and
waited impatiently.

"We're looking for a place of safety, and we heard that Canada was safe and
welcoming," the 37-year-old refugee claimant said. "Going back would be hard,
but going forward depends on them [immigration agents]."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News

               Copyright 2002 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                    September 16, 2001 Sunday Final Edition

Our immigration record has been a joke, now it's dangerous

SOURCE: The Province

BYLINE: Diane Francis

SECTION: Editorial; Diane Francis; Pg. A36

LENGTH: 703 words

America's pledge to punish as accessories countries where terrorists reside
should start with its naive neighbour, Canada.

Canada must get its act together when it comes to immigration and refugee
policies. Now it's apparent our policies, and malpractices, constitute a
national security threat to the United States.

For instance, on Sept. 23, 1997, I published a column in the Financial Post,
citing Interpol sources, that dozens of Algerian terrorists were living in
Montreal, posing as refugees.

Nothing happened.

Then 27 months later, in December 1999, one of these terrorists was caught on
his way to Los Angeles to blow up its international airport on New Year's Eve.

This week's catastrophe in the United States, and an investigation into whether
two terrorists entered the U.S. from Canada, prove that Ottawa must completely
recant its immigration and refugee policies.

Immigration Minister Elinor Caplan -- who describes any critic as a "racist" or
"bigot" -- should be unceremoniously dumped.

If Ottawa does not change dramatically, the Americans will take action.

Likely, they will "Mexico," or seal, their border permanently with us, making
travel and trade onerous and expensive. And if facing inaction by Ottawa, they
will be totally justified to do so.

The U.S. ambassador this week talked about matching immigration policies, but
said that the border would not be shut down because of the importance of the
$1-billion-a-day bilateral trade relationship.

But I don't believe that for a New York minute.

Our government has allowed in terrorists from Asia, the Middle East and North
Africa by the hundreds, if not thousands, as bogus refugees or immigrants.

Montreal has turned into a hotbed of francophone Arab terrorism, thanks to
Ottawa granting Quebec a great deal of control over immigration. The
secessionists, who control that province, have made francophone immigration a
priority. But they have not done their homework.

Canada is also currently accepting, without any demographic or economic
justification, four times as many immigrants and refugees per capita as the
Americans without the manpower, or political will, to properly police the
system.

The presence of an excessive number of uneducated immigrants, with unemployable
family members, has imposed the biggest single strain on our health care,
welfare, housing and education systems as well as on our judicial and police
systems.

Sadly, the result is that Montreal has now become a staging ground for Arab
terrorism. Vancouver and Toronto have also become centres of Sikh and Tamil
terrorism as well as meccas for Mafiosi from Russia, China, Vietnam and Korea.

Until this country has a decent followup capability we should severely curb the
numbers of immigrants and refugees we have been accepting. Until this country
has a proper procedure to detain, then immediately deport, bogus refugees, it
should not accept any unless liberated from bona fide refugee camps.

Nowhere is the problem more noticeable than in the fact we let anyone declare
they are a refugee and then support them for years. Recent cases include the
acceptance of a ring of Peruvian pickpockets who were allowed to claim refugee
status even though their country is a democracy. Likewise, we accepted hundreds
of Honduran drug dealers as refugees. On top of all that, Quebec continues to
rubber-stamp anyone with two legs just because they speak French.

As for immigrants, we accept tens of thousands of "entrepreneurial investors" as
immigrants without followup to make sure they keep their promises to create
jobs. A report in 1999 showed that 80,000 allowed in did not keep that promise.
We let people into Canada as sponsored immigrants then don't force their
sponsors to support them or pay their medical costs if they decide to renege.

Ottawa's immigration and refugee track record has been a joke. But now it's not
funny. It's downright dangerous to our neighbours and ourselves.

Canadians, too cowed to bring up the subject for fear of being labelled a racist
or bigot, must finally rise up and protest.

Failing that, the Americans will take action and it won't be pretty. But they
will be right to do so.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Column

               Copyright 2001 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                             June 14, 1994 Tuesday

MIGRATION RISE SIGN OF STRESS

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: BUCKLEY D

LENGTH: 328 words


KEYWORD-HIT Migration rise sign of stress WASHINGTON: Tens of millions of
people, believing they can't prosper or even survive in their native countries,
are migrating to other lands in record numbers. In what population experts say
is one of the surest signs of increased global stress, a rising number of people
worldwide are fleeing oppression, being forced out by war, looking for better
jobs, or just moving to be with relatives. The number of refugees has been
climbing since the 1960s, from barely 1.3 mil lion to more than 19 mil lion. But
most of the world's foreigners are legal immigrants, rather than displaced
people. Estimates of the total living as foreigners in all the world's countries
are close to 125 million. ""It's a sign of the neglect of our developing
countries," said Joseph Speidel, president of Population Action International,
which chronicles world migration, in a report released yesterday. The report
covers refugees, who are forced from their homelands for various reasons, as
well as voluntary migrants, who usually enter new lands to seek a better life.
The report depicts a world in motion, with the biggest flow from East and
South-East Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe. The report shows significant
migration into Western Europe and to Australia and New Zealand. Some of the
smallest migrations are from sub-Saharan Africa, where people are so
impoverished they can't afford to leave. The most striking statistics, featured
in the study and in a recent World Watch magazine report, come from the UN High
Commissioner for Refugees. The top 10 countries hosting refugees, based on
estimates for 1992, were Iran with 4.2 mil lion, former Yugoslavia with upwards
of 2 mil lion, Pakistan with 1.6 mil lion, Malawi and Jordan with 1.1 mil lion,
Germany with 827,100, Sudan with 725,600, Canada with 568,200, the Gaza Strip
with 560,200, and Guinea with 478,500. The United States was 11th with 473,000.
Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1994 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              36 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                            October 29, 2018 Monday

Refugees welcomed in Uganda;
African nation has as many as 1.25 million migrants on its soil

BYLINE: Joseph Goldstein The New York Times

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 227 words

DATELINE: ARUA, UGANDA


U.S. President Donald Trump is vowing to send the military to stop migrants
trudging from Central America. Europe's leaders are paying African nations to
block migrants from crossing the Mediterranean - and detaining the ones who make
it in filthy, overcrowded camps.

But Solomon Osakan has a different approach in this era of rising xenophobia.
From his uncluttered desk in northwest Uganda, he manages one of the largest
concentrations of refugees anywhere in the world: more than 400,000 people.

He explained what he does with them: Refugees are allotted some land - enough to
build a little house, do a little farming and "be self-sufficient," said Osakan,
a Ugandan civil servant. Here, he added, the refugees live in settlements, not
camps - with no barbed wire, and no guards in sight.

"You are free, and you can come and go as you want," Osakan added.

As many nations are securing their borders and turning refugees away, Uganda
keeps welcoming them. And they keep coming.

Uganda has as many as 1.25 million refugees on its soil, perhaps more, making it
one of the most welcoming countries in the world, according to the United
Nations.

And while Uganda's government has made hosting refugees a core national policy,
it works only because of the willingness of rural Ugandans to accept an influx
of foreigners on their land and shoulder a big part of the burden.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                 Copyright 2018 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited


                              37 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                              June 25, 2018 Monday

Healing, not hating, refugees in Canada

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 354 words


A PR move by Trump, June 21

U.S. President Donald Trump's national child abuse of refugee infants and kids
has put the United States, both the nation and its soul, on trial, and with that
the country's right to be described as a modern, enlightened democracy.

More importantly, Trump has put the entire world on trial. What are the rest of
us prepared to do about this grotesque, ghastly, vile and overtly evil unfolding
humanitarian failure?

Canada is showing that there is a better, more noble way.

As Donald Trump mutilates his country's southern border, as he rips children
from their parents' arms then politically weaponizes these children to gain
support for a wall, the northern border with Canada presents a stark, welcome
contrast.

As some refugees seek sanctuary in the United States, others desperately flee
this so-called "safe third country" to Canada. As one border hates, another
heals.

As Trump sends ICE agents to maternity centres looking for asylum-seeking women
from Africa, Syria and Asia to deport, the women pick up, pack up and head north
via a modern-day underground railroad. They leave for sanctuary in Canada.

Being deported from the United States means their children may suffer their
mother's fate - female child genital mutilation and cutting, or perhaps being
kidnapped by terrorist groups for ransom for weapons.

Are these women "illegal immigrants?" Many have resided in the United States for
years. Or are they heroes for doing what any other mother on earth would do if
in their position?

After crossing into Canada, refugee families are united, not separated. In our
clinics, refugee children cling to parents after being separated from their
home, family members, culture, country and everything but their mothers. They
cling together, then play together - because Canada says they can. They receive
support to start over.

At our refugee health centre, we agree with the sentiments universally and
openly expressed by the asylum seekers crossing from the United States whom we
treat.

Dr. Paul Caulford, board chair and president of the Canadian Centre for Refugee
and Immigrant

Healthcare, Toronto

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                 Copyright 2018 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited


                              38 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                             June 19, 2018 Tuesday

Displaced population at record highs;
Number of people who fled man-made tragedy hit 68.5 million in 2017

BYLINE: Nicholas Keung Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 508 words


For the fifth year in a row, war, violence and persecution have driven more
people out of their homes, pushing the number of displaced people worldwide to
an unprecedented high of 68.5 million, up by 3 million from 2016, the United
Nations says.

In 2017, one person fled their home every two seconds due to man-made tragedies
with the total number of forcibly displaced people almost equalling the entire
population of Thailand, said the UN Refugee Agency's annual Global Trends
Report, released Tuesday, on the eve of World Refugee Day.

Of those, 25.4 million were refugees, who fled to another country to escape
conflict and persecution, up by 2.9 million from the year before. Asylum
seekers, who were still waiting for the outcome of their claims, rose by 300,000
to 3.1 million during the same period.

"We are at a watershed, where success in managing forced displacement globally
requires a new and far more comprehensive approach so that countries and
communities aren't left dealing with this alone," UN High Commissioner for
Refugees Filippo Grandi said in a statement.

"No one becomes a refugee by choice, but the rest of us can have a choice about
how we help."

According to the report, 85 per cent of refugees were housed last year in
developing countries, many of which are themselves extremely poor and receive
little international support to care for these populations.

Africa (excluding North Africa) sheltered 31.4 per cent of the world's refugees;
the Asia Pacific region, 21.1 per cent; and the Middle East and North Africa,
13.6 per cent. Although Europe hosted 30.7 per cent of the refugee population,
more than half of them were in Turkey. The Americas were home to only 3.2 per
cent of refugees.

Refugees from 10 countries made up 82 per cent of those under the UN's mandate:
Syria; Afghanistan; South Sudan; Myanmar; Somalia; Sudan; the Congo; Central
African Republic; Eritrea and Burundi.

The global displaced population is young - 53 per cent are children, including
many who are unaccompanied or separated from their families.

Some 5 million people, both the internally displaced and refugees, were able to
return to their homes in 2017, according to the report, but only 102,800 were
resettled to a third country, down 47 per cent from 2016.

The United States was the largest recipient of new asylum claims at its border,
just ahead of Germany and Italy. Afghans submitted the most number of refugee
claims, closely followed by Syrians, Iraqis and Venezuelans.

Grandi said 14 of the 193 UN member states who supported the 2016 New York
Declaration for Refugees and Migrants are already pioneering a new blueprint on
their own for responding to refugee crises, and later this year a new "Global
Compact on Refugees" will be released for state members to adopt. The objective
of the pact is to promote a more comprehensive international effort in
protecting those who flee their homes and in supporting the refugee-hosting
countries.

"On the eve of World Refugee Day, my message to member states is please support
this," Grandi said.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                 Copyright 2018 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited


                              39 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                             June 19, 2018 Tuesday

Violence pushes world's displaced population to record high of 68.5M, UN report
finds

BYLINE: Nicholas Keung

SECTION: NEWS; Pg.

LENGTH: 520 words


For the fifth year in a row, war, violence and persecution have driven more
people out of their homes, pushing the number of displaced people worldwide to
an unprecedented high of 68.5 million, up by 3 million from 2016, the United
Nations says.

In 2017, one person fled their home every two seconds due to man-made tragedies
with the total number of forcibly displaced people almost equalling the entire
population of Thailand, said the UN Refugee Agency#8217;s annual Global Trends
Report, released on Tuesday on the eve of World Refugee Day.

Of those, 25.4 million were refugees, who managed to flee to another country to
escape conflict and persecution, up by 2.9 million from the year before. Asylum
seekers, who were still waiting for the outcome of their claims, rose by 300,000
to 3.1 million during the same period.

#8220;We are at a watershed, where success in managing forced displacement
globally requires a new and far more comprehensive approach so that countries
and communities aren#8217;t left dealing with this alone,#8221; UN High
Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi said in a statement.

#8220;No one becomes a refugee by choice, but the rest of us can have a choice
about how we help.#8221;

According to the report, 85 per cent of refugees were housed last year in
developing countries, many of which are themselves extremely poor and receive
little international support to care for these populations.

Africa (excluding North Africa) sheltered 31.4 per cent of the world#8217;s
refugees; the Asia Pacific region, 21.1 per cent; and the Middle East and North
Africa, 13.6 per cent. Although Europe hosted 30.7 per cent of the refugee
population, more than half of them were in Turkey. The Americas were home to
only 3.2 per cent of refugees.

Refugees from 10 countries made up 82 per cent of those under the UN#8217;s
mandate: Syria; Afghanistan; South Sudan; Myanmar; Somalia; Sudan; the Congo;
Central African Republic; Eritrea and Burundi.

The global displaced population is young #8212; 53 per cent are children,
including many who are unaccompanied or separated from their families.

Some 5 million people, both the internally displaced and refugees, were able to
return to their homes in 2017, according to the report, but only 102,800 were
resettled to a third country, down 47 per cent from 2016.

The United States was the largest recipient of new asylum claims at its border,
just ahead of Germany and Italy. Afghans submitted the most number of refugee
claims, closely followed by Syrians, Iraqis and Venezuelans.

Grandi said 14 of the 193 UN member states who supported the 2016 New York
Declaration for Refugees and Migrants are already pioneering a new blueprint on
their own for responding to refugee crises and later this year a new
#8220;Global Compact on Refugees#8221; will be released for state members to
adopt. The objective of the pact is to promote a more comprehensive
international effort in protecting those who flee their homes and in supporting
the refugee-hosting countries.

#8220;On the eve of World Refugee Day, my message to member states is please
support this,#8221; said Grandi.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                 Copyright 2018 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited


                              40 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                             June 19, 2018 Tuesday

Violence pushes world's displaced population to record high of 68.5M, UN report
finds

BYLINE: Nicholas Keung

SECTION: NEWS; Pg.

LENGTH: 520 words


For the fifth year in a row, war, violence and persecution have driven more
people out of their homes, pushing the number of displaced people worldwide to
an unprecedented high of 68.5 million, up by 3 million from 2016, the United
Nations says.

In 2017, one person fled their home every two seconds due to man-made tragedies
with the total number of forcibly displaced people almost equalling the entire
population of Thailand, said the UN Refugee Agency#8217;s annual Global Trends
Report, released on Tuesday on the eve of World Refugee Day.

Of those, 25.4 million were refugees, who managed to flee to another country to
escape conflict and persecution, up by 2.9 million from the year before. Asylum
seekers, who were still waiting for the outcome of their claims, rose by 300,000
to 3.1 million during the same period.

#8220;We are at a watershed, where success in managing forced displacement
globally requires a new and far more comprehensive approach so that countries
and communities aren#8217;t left dealing with this alone,#8221; UN High
Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi said in a statement.

#8220;No one becomes a refugee by choice, but the rest of us can have a choice
about how we help.#8221;

According to the report, 85 per cent of refugees were housed last year in
developing countries, many of which are themselves extremely poor and receive
little international support to care for these populations.

Africa (excluding North Africa) sheltered 31.4 per cent of the world#8217;s
refugees; the Asia Pacific region, 21.1 per cent; and the Middle East and North
Africa, 13.6 per cent. Although Europe hosted 30.7 per cent of the refugee
population, more than half of them were in Turkey. The Americas were home to
only 3.2 per cent of refugees.

Refugees from 10 countries made up 82 per cent of those under the UN#8217;s
mandate: Syria; Afghanistan; South Sudan; Myanmar; Somalia; Sudan; the Congo;
Central African Republic; Eritrea and Burundi.

The global displaced population is young #8212; 53 per cent are children,
including many who are unaccompanied or separated from their families.

Some 5 million people, both the internally displaced and refugees, were able to
return to their homes in 2017, according to the report, but only 102,800 were
resettled to a third country, down 47 per cent from 2016.

The United States was the largest recipient of new asylum claims at its border,
just ahead of Germany and Italy. Afghans submitted the most number of refugee
claims, closely followed by Syrians, Iraqis and Venezuelans.

Grandi said 14 of the 193 UN member states who supported the 2016 New York
Declaration for Refugees and Migrants are already pioneering a new blueprint on
their own for responding to refugee crises and later this year a new
#8220;Global Compact on Refugees#8221; will be released for state members to
adopt. The objective of the pact is to promote a more comprehensive
international effort in protecting those who flee their homes and in supporting
the refugee-hosting countries.

#8220;On the eve of World Refugee Day, my message to member states is please
support this,#8221; said Grandi.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                 Copyright 2018 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited


                              41 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                              May 19, 2017 Friday

'This country is my home now';
Refugee claimant approved after he almost froze to death crossing the Canadian
border

BYLINE: Steve Lambert The Canadian Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 395 words

DATELINE: WINNIPEG


Five months after nearly freezing to death on a treacherous walk across the
Canada-U.S. border, and still learning to get along without the 10 fingers and
thumbs he lost to frostbite, Seidu Mohammed is happy.

He gets to stay in Canada.

The Immigration and Refugee Board granted him refugee status on the basis that
the 24-year-old bisexual professional soccer player from Ghana would face
persecution if he returned to his home country.

"I feel so happy. I feel now that this country is my home now," he said
Thursday, sitting at the kitchen table in his home.

With a bit of effort, he opened a binder and produced the written decision from
the Immigration and Refugee Board.

"I want to do anything possible to contribute to this country because this
country has done a lot to me that I didn't expect. Ever since I came here, I've
seen a lot of good people who give me courage and also support me."

Mohammed fled to the U.S. from Ghana in 2015. Like many asylum seekers from
Africa, he first flew to Ecuador - where no visas are required - then made his
way by bus through Central America and then to the U.S., where he spent several
months in a detention centre.

Mohammed said his asylum claim in the U.S. was rejected because he was unable to
gather supporting evidence from his home country while locked up in the
detention centre. Phone calls overseas from the detention centre are expensive
and applicants can burn through the money they have in a short call, he said.

Released from custody pending deportation, Mohammed made it to North Dakota,
took a cab to an area near the border at Emerson, Man.

Along with a fellow asylum seeker he met, Mohammed walked seven hours in the
dark as the wind chill dipped to -30 C. It was Dec. 24. The two men passed
Emerson without realizing it and were eventually found by a trucker near
Letellier, Man., - 14 kilometres to the north - nearly frozen and disoriented.

The men spent weeks in hospital. Mohammed's fingers and thumbs were removed and
his hands now resemble stumps. The man he crossed the border with is still
waiting to learn his fate, he said.

His lawyer, Bashir Khan, said Mohammed has shown a lot of determination to adapt
to life without his fingers and thumbs.

"Mentally, he's very strong," Khan said. "Physically, it's of course very
difficult to readjust and cope ... so I think he has a lot of rehabilitation
(ahead)."

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                 Copyright 2017 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited


                              42 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                             March 7, 2017 Tuesday

Better odds for asylum-seekers;
U.S. tends to detain, reject more than Canada does

BYLINE: Steve Lambert The Canadian Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 563 words

DATELINE: WINNIPEG


Bundled against bone-chilling cold, asylum-seekers hoping to gain refugee status
in Canada have been trudging through ditches and fields along the border with
the United States.

Many have already had refugee or asylum claims turned down in the U.S. and feel
they may have more success in Canada. That assumption, some immigration lawyers
say, is correct.

"I think that there is a lack of access to justice (for claimants in the United
States)," said Bashir Khan, an immigration lawyer in Winnipeg.

"In most of Canada, you do get ... a legal-aid assigned lawyer. You're not put
in immigration detention, so you are able to make long-distance calls to gather
evidence that your lawyer may tell you is needed."

Alastair Clarke, another immigration lawyer in the city, said he has represented
people who have been rejected in the United States but are accepted in Canada.

"In the United States, there's a much higher rate of detention ... and when the
individual is detained, it's much more difficult for them to access counsel.
They have limited rights to legal counsel for legal advice, and the counsel who
do represent them are often lawyers who don't specialize in (immigration)."

Statistics provided by the Immigration and Refugee Board show refugee claims
from people fleeing some countries are approved more often than not. The
statistics include all claims, not just those from people entering via the U.S.

The numbers are only for people who make their refugee claim at official border
crossings or within Canada after getting across the border - not people who
apply from abroad. And they only cover claims that have already been screened
for eligibility by the Canada Border Services Agency or Immigration, Refugees
and Citizenship Canada. In the first nine months of 2016, 54 per cent of claims
from people who cited persecution in Ghana were approved. Two-thirds of
Somalia-related claims were OKed and the success rate for people fleeing
Djibouti was more than 90 per cent.

Some claimants arrive in Canada after making a trip across three continents
along what has become a modern "underground railroad."

Mohammed, a claimant from Ghana who did not want his last name used, walked
across the border near Emerson-Franklin in Manitoba last fall after flying from
Africa to Brazil, then Ecuador. He then spent three months making his way north
on buses, a boat and on foot, he said, until he entered the U.S. near San Diego.
He planned on making a new home in the U.S. At the California border, he was put
in a detention centre for 10 months and his claim was rejected, he said. He
could not get a lawyer and was unprepared for the hearing, he added.

In Canada, claimants are generally released pending their hearings and are
supported by non-profit groups. Most provinces offer legal aid for refugee
claims. Under U.S. law, asylum-seekers who have their claims rejected must be
released from detention within six months. After that, they are subject to
strict reporting conditions, knowing that one day they will be deported.

"They are eventually told, 'Your deportation is going to happen pretty soon, so
make sure you're ready for it,'" Khan said.

"When they sort of get that hint or a tip-off from immigration officials
themselves, that's when they try to figure out how they can enter Canada and
whether they could ... get a more fair process than the one they've gone
through."

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                 Copyright 2017 Toronto Star Newspapers Limited


                              43 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                            June 18, 2008 Wednesday

Refugee numbers soaring: UN;
11.4 million seeking asylum as global conflicts threaten more displacements,
commissioner warns

BYLINE: Nicholas Keung, Toronto Star

SECTION: WORLD AND COMMENT; Pg. AA03

LENGTH: 582 words


The number of refugees uprooted globally by conflict and persecution reached an
unprecedented level in 2007, with the United Nations recording 11.4 million
people seeking asylum abroad and 26 million others displaced within their
homelands.

The statistics from more than 150 countries identified a total of 67 million
refugees and internally displaced people hit by human conflicts as well as
natural disasters, says the latest report by the United Nations Refugee Agency.

"After a five-year decline in the number of refugees between 2001 and 2005, we
have now seen two years of increases, and that's a concern," UN High
Commissioner for Refugees Antonio Guterres said in London yesterday, ahead of
Friday's World Refugee Day.

"We are now faced with a complex mix of global challenges that could threaten
even more forced displacement in the future," he added. "They range from
multiple new conflict-related emergencies to bad governance, climate-induced
environmental degradation that increases competition for scarce resources and
extreme price hikes that have hit the poor the hardest and are generating
instability."

With tightened border security in the West, 83 per cent of global refugees
seeking protection managed to go only as far as their neighbouring countries in
the same region - like the 3 million Zimbabweans that have poured into South
Africa. The report points out that seven of the top 10 refugee hosts worldwide
are developing countries themselves.

Roughly one-third of all refugees stayed in countries in Asia, with 80 per cent
of them Afghans. The Middle East and North Africa regions were home to a quarter
of all refugees, primarily from Iraq, while Africa and Europe respectively
hosted 20 per cent and 14 per cent of the world's refugees.

At a meagre 9 per cent, the Americas region had the smallest share of refugees,
with the majority of them Colombians.

Afghanistan remained the leading refugee-producing country with 3.1 million of
its nationals seeking protection in 72 countries. They were closely followed by
Iraqis (2.3 million), Colombians (552,000), Sudanese (523,000) and Somalis
(457,000).

Canada took in 900 Iraqi refugees in 2007 and vowed to accept 2,000 more through
its resettlement program this year.

According to limited demographic statistics, some 44 per cent of the global
refugees are children under the age of 18 with those 60 years or older
accounting for 5 per cent of the population.

Among those displaced within their own countries, Colombia ranked first with 3
million people being forced to flee their homes in one region of the country to
another for personal safety. The 2.4 million people in Iraq ranked second,
followed by 1.3 million in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, 1.2 million in
Uganda and 1 million in Somalia.

Meanwhile, 48,300 refugees were resettled in the United States, 11,200 in
Canada, 9,600 in Australia, 1,800 in Sweden, 1,100 in Norway, and 740 in New
Zealand.

Despite the continuing problems in their home countries, some 731,000 refugees
did return voluntarily to places they once fled. They included 374,000 Afghanis,
130,700 Sudanese, 60,000 Congolese, 45,400 Iraqis and 44,400 Liberians.

The report estimates some 12 million people remained stateless worldwide, about
4.6 million of them Palestinians.

On Friday, the UNHCR, in collaboration with refugee aid groups in Toronto, will
host a concert and special citizenship ceremony at Metro Hall Square from noon
to 4 p.m. to celebrate refugees' contributions to Canada.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  John Moore Getty Images A throng of migrants, most from Zimbabwe, rush
the gates of a South African refugee centre in Johannesburg yesterday to apply
for asylum permits.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                  Copyright 2008 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              44 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                            August 25, 2007 Saturday

A new class of refugee is emerging

SECTION: RELIGION; Pg. ID06

LENGTH: 586 words


In December 2004, the deadliest tsunami in history devastated Southeast Asia,
killing 270,000 and displacing 1.7 million persons.

In August 2005, Hurricane Katrina smashed into New Orleans, killing more than
1,000 people and rendering tens of thousands missing and homeless to this day.

For a growing number of activists and international policy experts, the
displaced are not merely weather-related victims but are part of a swelling
category known as "environmental refugees." In 2003, for example, the United
Nations reported that for the first time in history, the number of environmental
refugees had reached 25 million, surpassing the 23 million political and war
refugees. These environmental refugees now fill shantytowns in Latin America,
Africa, and Southeast Asia in growing circles of concentrated misery.

Andrew Simms, author of Environmental Refugees: The Case for Recognition, is one
of a growing chorus of scholars who predict that by the year 2010, some 50
million worldwide may fall under the category of environmental refugees. These
people would be uprooted from their homes because of rising sea levels,
desertification, deforestation, depleted aquifers, weather-induced flooding and
other natural disasters, many of which are attributable to global warming.

Simms is one of several researchers featured in the recent documentary, The
Refugees of the Blue Planet, by Helene Choquette and Jean-Philippe Duval
(available on DVD Oct. 30 from mongrelmedia.ca.)

The film suggests that weather is not the only engine of environmental
displacement. Also to blame are failed economic models exported from agencies
such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund that emphasizes the
rapid exploitation of natural resources by developing countries to repay foreign
debts.

In these projects, the film argues, sustainable farming is replaced by monocrop
agriculture, small farms are submerged by large hydroelectric dam projects, and,
in general, centralized high-tech development is promoted to meet the needs of
an elite minority.

After focusing on the devastated Southeast Asian island nation of Maldives,
which is disappearing under rising seas apparently caused by melting ice caps,
the film turns to displaced Brazilian farmers. Their lands have been given over
to vast eucalyptus groves to grow cellulose pulp, primarily for toilet paper.

Yet environmental refugees are found not only among indigent of southern
nations. In Alberta, for example, farmers, and even oil and gas workers, have
been uprooted by sour gas wells near their properties.

Sour gas, sometimes dubbed "Hell's gas," is a deeply embedded gas contaminated
by hydrogen sulfide. According to investigative journalist Andrew Nikiforuk, it
is "the only other gas that is quite as lethal is cyanide." Nikiforuk states
that in the process of extracting and refining sour gas, 275 tons of sulphur
spew into the air each day, groundwater is contaminated, and accidents and leaks
are displacing rural people each year.

Tragically, the reality of environmental refugees has arrived at Canada's front
door. As the film's co-director Choquette observes, the experience of filming
environmental refugees has brought home to her that cultural heritage consists
of more than just "singing and dancing - it includes the land we live on."

And when that land becomes uninhabitable, we indeed become refugees of the blue
planet.

Stephen B. Scharper is associate

professor at the Centre for Environment, University of Toronto.

Stephen.scharper @ utoronto.ca.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                  Copyright 2007 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              45 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                    The Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                           November 8, 2018 Thursday
                                 First Edition

First hijab-wearing Muslim elected to House

BYLINE: Siobh\xE1n O'Grady The Washington Post

SECTION: CANADA / WORLD; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 448 words


Two years ago, when President Donald Trump was still on the campaign trail, he
told an audience during a rally at Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport
that Minnesota had "suffered enough" at the hands of Somali immigrants, who
began moving there as refugees in the early 1990s.

He told the crowd that "large numbers of Somali refugees (are) coming into your
state without your knowledge, without your support or approval, and with some of
them then joining ISIS and spreading their extremist views all over our country
and all over the world." (ISIS is an alternative acronym for the Islamic State
militant group.)

Trump's assertion was met with confusion and anger in some parts of Minnesota,
where tens of thousands of Somali refugees were relocated from their Horn of
Africa homeland after its government collapsed in 1991 and civil war broke out.
And on Tuesday, one of those refugees won a seat in Congress.

Ilhan Omar took home 78 per cent of the vote in Minnesota's 5th Congressional
District, becoming the first Somali-American, first refugee and first
hijab-wearing Muslim woman elected to the U.S. House of Representatives. She
also became the first woman of colour to represent Minnesota in Congress. "When
people were selling the politics of fear and division and destruction, we were
talking about hope. We were talking about the politics of joy," Omar said in her
victory speech.

Omar already knew what it meant to be a "first." In 2016, she was elected to the
Minnesota House of Representatives, which made her the first Somali American in
history to be elected legislator in the United States.

Omar's win "reinforces the idea that all is possible in America," said Cawo
Abdi, a professor of sociology at the University of Minnesota. It also
repudiates Trump's efforts to use the Somali community "to show the failure of
the immigration system," Abdi said.

Omar, 36, was born in Somalia but fled with her family to Kenya as a refugee
when she was eight. They lived in a refugee camp for four years before being
resettled in Minneapolis in 1997. Her campaign website says she became
interested in politics at age 14, when she would interpret for her grandfather
at local caucuses.

In recent years, a small number of Minnesotans either joined the Islamic State
or were caught conspiring to do so.

But Omar's win has the potential to change the way the community is viewed by
outsiders, Abdi said. "The rhetoric of exclusion really can be undermined by
having these types of stories and these types of successes," she said.

"There has been an extreme level of scrutiny, and the community is really
feeling under siege," Abdi said. "This type of thing is something really
positive."

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2018 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             Waterloo Region Record

                           November 8, 2018 Thursday
                                 First Edition

First hijab-wearing Muslim elected to House

BYLINE: Siobh\xE1n O'Grady The Washington Post, The Washington Post

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 448 words


Two years ago, when President Donald Trump was still on the campaign trail, he
told an audience during a rally at Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport
that Minnesota had "suffered enough" at the hands of Somali immigrants, who
began moving there as refugees in the early 1990s.

He told the crowd that "large numbers of Somali refugees (are) coming into your
state without your knowledge, without your support or approval, and with some of
them then joining ISIS and spreading their extremist views all over our country
and all over the world." (ISIS is an alternative acronym for the Islamic State
militant group.)

Trump's assertion was met with confusion and anger in some parts of Minnesota,
where tens of thousands of Somali refugees were relocated from their Horn of
Africa homeland after its government collapsed in 1991 and civil war broke out.
And on Tuesday, one of those refugees won a seat in Congress.

Ilhan Omar took home 78 per cent of the vote in Minnesota's 5th Congressional
District, becoming the first Somali-American, first refugee and first
hijab-wearing Muslim woman elected to the U.S. House of Representatives. She
also became the first woman of colour to represent Minnesota in Congress. "When
people were selling the politics of fear and division and destruction, we were
talking about hope. We were talking about the politics of joy," Omar said in her
victory speech.

Omar already knew what it meant to be a "first." In 2016, she was elected to the
Minnesota House of Representatives, which made her the first Somali American in
history to be elected legislator in the United States.

Omar's win "reinforces the idea that all is possible in America," said Cawo
Abdi, a professor of sociology at the University of Minnesota. It also
repudiates Trump's efforts to use the Somali community "to show the failure of
the immigration system," Abdi said.

Omar, 36, was born in Somalia but fled with her family to Kenya as a refugee
when she was eight. They lived in a refugee camp for four years before being
resettled in Minneapolis in 1997. Her campaign website says she became
interested in politics at age 14, when she would interpret for her grandfather
at local caucuses.

In recent years, a small number of Minnesotans either joined the Islamic State
or were caught conspiring to do so.

But Omar's win has the potential to change the way the community is viewed by
outsiders, Abdi said. "The rhetoric of exclusion really can be undermined by
having these types of stories and these types of successes," she said.

"There has been an extreme level of scrutiny, and the community is really
feeling under siege," Abdi said. "This type of thing is something really
positive."

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2018 Metroland Media Group Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                              Anadolu Agency (AA)

                           November 7, 2018 Wednesday

Africa hails first Somali-American congresswoman

LENGTH: 414 words


IIhan Omar and Rashida Tlaib make history as first 2 Muslim women to be elected
to US Congress

Features

Archive

By Hassan Isilow

JOHANNESBURG

African political leaders and activists alike on Wednesday heartily
congratulated Ilhan Omar on becoming the first Somali-American elected to the
U.S. Congress.

"Extending my warm congratulation to you IIhan. Your victory is our global
community's victory," Somali Prime Minister Hassan Ali Khaire wrote on his
official Twitter account on Wednesday.

He called Omar's victory an inspiration to all Somali youth, wherever they are,
as "your success is their success."

Ambassador Mohamed Abdi Affey, a UN refugee agency special envoy for the Horn of
Africa, said the election of Omar -- a former refugee -- serves as an
inspiration to millions of refugees across the globe.

Affey, a former Kenyan deputy foreign minister, said Omar's election will give
hope to refugees.

Omar, 36, spent many years at the Dadaab refugee camp in Kenya before relocating
to the United States, where she joined the Democratic Party.

In 2016, she was elected a Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party member of the Minnesota
House of Representatives, making her the first Somali-American legislator
elected to office in the United States.

On Tuesday, she defeated Republican Jennifer Zielinski in the race to represent
the state's Fifth District in Congress.

"America has not had a Muslim woman in Congress. This is victory for Muslims,
Africa, and the Middle East," Somali activist Mohammed Aden told Anadolu Agency
on telephone from the capital Mogadishu.

Omar and Rashida Tlaib from the state of Michigan made history on Tuesday by
winning seats in the U.S. House of Representatives, making them the first Muslim
women to be elected to the U.S. Congress.

Tlaib won the congressional seat for Michigan's 13th district after former
Representative John Conyers abruptly stepped down following sexual harassment
allegations, leaving the seat vacant.

The Palestinian-American Muslim, who served for six years in the state
legislature, ran as a Democrat.

The Turkish Embassy in Somalia also wrote a congratulatory message on its
Twitter account hailing Omar's election to Congress.

Anadolu Agency website contains only a portion of the news stories offered to
subscribers in the AA News Broadcasting System (HAS), and in summarized form.
Please contact us for subscription options.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/148/400/40/154161451970.jpg?v=185953

Africa hails first Somali-American congresswoman

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 400


                          Copyright 2018 Andolu Ajansi
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                    The Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                           November 7, 2018 Wednesday

Trump demonized Somali refugees in Minnesota, now one of them just won a seat in
Congress

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 550 words


Two years ago, when President Donald Trump was still on the campaign trail, he
told an audience during a rally at Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport
that Minnesota had "suffered enough" at the hands of Somali immigrants, who
began moving there as refugees in the early 1990s.

He told the crowd that "large numbers of Somali refugees (are) coming into your
state without your knowledge, without your support or approval, and with some of
them then joining ISIS and spreading their extremist views all over our country
and all over the world." (ISIS is an alternative acronym for the Islamic State
militant group.)

Trump's assertion was met with confusion and anger in some parts of Minnesota,
where tens of thousands of Somali refugees were relocated from their Horn of
Africa homeland after its government collapsed in 1991 and civil war broke out.
And on Tuesday, one of those refugees won a seat in Congress.

Ilhan Omar took home 78 per cent of the vote in Minnesota's 5th Congressional
District, becoming the first Somali-American, first refugee and first
hijab-wearing Muslim woman elected to the U.S. House of Representatives. She
also became the first woman of colour to represent Minnesota in Congress. "When
people were selling the politics of fear and division and destruction, we were
talking about hope. We were talking about the politics of joy," Omar said in her
victory speech.

Omar already knew what it meant to be a "first." In 2016, she was elected to the
Minnesota House of Representatives, which made her the first Somali American in
history to be elected legislator in the United States.

Omar's win "reinforces the idea that all is possible in America," said Cawo
Abdi, a professor of sociology at the University of Minnesota. It also
repudiates Trump's efforts to use the Somali community "to show the failure of
the immigration system," Abdi said.

Omar, 36, was born in Somalia but fled with her family to Kenya as a refugee
when she was eight. They lived in a refugee camp for four years before being
resettled in Minneapolis in 1997. Her campaign website says she became
interested in politics at age 14, when she would interpret for her grandfather
at local caucuses.

In recent years, a small number of Minnesotans either joined the Islamic State
or were caught conspiring to do so.

But Omar's win has the potential to change the way the community is viewed by
outsiders, Abdi said. "The rhetoric of exclusion really can be undermined by
having these types of stories and these types of successes," she said.

"There has been an extreme level of scrutiny, and the community is really
feeling under siege," Abdi said. "This type of thing is something really
positive."

Duchess Harris, a professor of American studies at Macalester College in St.
Paul, Minn., and author of "Black Feminist Politics from Kennedy to Trump," said
Omar's win is "a tremendous success for the people of the 5th District."

The area Omar will represent "has changed so drastically in the last 30 years
that you know she clearly reflects a voice and a sentiment for the community,"
Harris said.

"This is a win for all Americans because we are a country that espouses freedom
of religion, and I think for people to see someone who wears a hijab on the
congressional floor is an important symbol for that fact."

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2018 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                    The Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                           November 7, 2018 Wednesday

Trump demonized Somali refugees in Minnesota, now one of them just won a seat in
Congress

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 550 words


Two years ago, when President Donald Trump was still on the campaign trail, he
told an audience during a rally at Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport
that Minnesota had "suffered enough" at the hands of Somali immigrants, who
began moving there as refugees in the early 1990s.

He told the crowd that "large numbers of Somali refugees (are) coming into your
state without your knowledge, without your support or approval, and with some of
them then joining ISIS and spreading their extremist views all over our country
and all over the world." (ISIS is an alternative acronym for the Islamic State
militant group.)

Trump's assertion was met with confusion and anger in some parts of Minnesota,
where tens of thousands of Somali refugees were relocated from their Horn of
Africa homeland after its government collapsed in 1991 and civil war broke out.
And on Tuesday, one of those refugees won a seat in Congress.

Ilhan Omar took home 78 per cent of the vote in Minnesota's 5th Congressional
District, becoming the first Somali-American, first refugee and first
hijab-wearing Muslim woman elected to the U.S. House of Representatives. She
also became the first woman of colour to represent Minnesota in Congress. "When
people were selling the politics of fear and division and destruction, we were
talking about hope. We were talking about the politics of joy," Omar said in her
victory speech.

Omar already knew what it meant to be a "first." In 2016, she was elected to the
Minnesota House of Representatives, which made her the first Somali American in
history to be elected legislator in the United States.

Omar's win "reinforces the idea that all is possible in America," said Cawo
Abdi, a professor of sociology at the University of Minnesota. It also
repudiates Trump's efforts to use the Somali community "to show the failure of
the immigration system," Abdi said.

Omar, 36, was born in Somalia but fled with her family to Kenya as a refugee
when she was eight. They lived in a refugee camp for four years before being
resettled in Minneapolis in 1997. Her campaign website says she became
interested in politics at age 14, when she would interpret for her grandfather
at local caucuses.

In recent years, a small number of Minnesotans either joined the Islamic State
or were caught conspiring to do so.

But Omar's win has the potential to change the way the community is viewed by
outsiders, Abdi said. "The rhetoric of exclusion really can be undermined by
having these types of stories and these types of successes," she said.

"There has been an extreme level of scrutiny, and the community is really
feeling under siege," Abdi said. "This type of thing is something really
positive."

Duchess Harris, a professor of American studies at Macalester College in St.
Paul, Minn., and author of "Black Feminist Politics from Kennedy to Trump," said
Omar's win is "a tremendous success for the people of the 5th District."

The area Omar will represent "has changed so drastically in the last 30 years
that you know she clearly reflects a voice and a sentiment for the community,"
Harris said.

"This is a win for all Americans because we are a country that espouses freedom
of religion, and I think for people to see someone who wears a hijab on the
congressional floor is an important symbol for that fact."

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2018 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            November 2, 2018 Friday

Remarks at a Meeting of the Third Committee on the Report of the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR)

LENGTH: 482 words


Washington: U.S. Mission to the United Nations has issued the following news
release:    Thank you, Mr. Chair, and to UN High Commissioner for Refugees for
that thorough and inspiring report.  The United States and UNHCR remain strong
partners in our effort to protect and find durable solutions for the millions of
refugees, stateless persons, internally displaced, and other persons of concern
around the world. The United States is committed to continue to lead the world
in humanitarian assistance efforts as close to refugees' homes as possible in
order to meet their needs until they can return home safely, voluntarily, and
with dignity. To this end, the United States remains the largest single donor of
humanitarian assistance worldwide, including through providing nearly $1.6
billion in Fiscal Year 2018 to UNHCR alone.

We recognize UNHCR performs an invaluable service offering life-saving support
to those desperately in need.  Despite significant U.S. and other donor
contributions, the gap between needs and available resources continues to grow.
There must be a redoubling of efforts to share the burden, promote refugee
inclusion and self-reliance, and work to end conflicts. As Secretary of State
Pompeo recently stated, "The best way to help the most people is to promote
burden sharing with partners and allies."  To this end, we are grateful for the
efforts of other countries to take on additional responsibilities for those in
need of protection. Examples are evident on almost every continent. We applaud
the many countries throughout Latin America who have generously opened their
doors to the unprecedented outflow of the more than two million Venezuelans. In
Africa, Ethiopia is finalizing a legally binding proclamation to expand refugees
' access to work, education, and other basic services, and recently allowed
refugees to receive vital documents. In the Middle East, the Government of
Jordan has committed to allowing all children access to public education and,
since 2016, has issued more than 87,000 formal work permits to Syrian refugees.
I could give further examples from Turkey as well, especially with respect to
Syrian refugees, and in Asia Thailand's granting of nationality to stateless
persons, which has allowed them to have access to education and work.  The
United States commends UNHCR for its reform efforts to date, initiated by the
2016 Headquarters Review. Including its efforts to ensure maximum efficiency,
transparency, and accountability. All of these changes and more are deeply
important to the United States and we seek the greatest protection for those in
need and the most effective use of scarce resources.  We reaffirm our commitment
to working with other governments, the United Nations, the private sector and
civil society organizations as a means to increase the effectiveness of the
humanitarian system.  Thank you very much.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2018 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 1, 2018 Thursday

Federal Register: Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal
Year 2019 Pages 55091 - 55092 [FR DOC # 2018-24135]

LENGTH: 609 words


Washington: Office of the Federal Register has issued the following notice:
Presidential Documents Federal Register / Vol. 83 , No. 212 / Thursday, November
1, 2018 / Presidential Documents
___________________________________________________________________ Title 3--
The President [[Page 55091]] Presidential Determination No. 2019-01 of October
4, 2018 Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2019
Memorandum for the Secretary of State By the authority vested in me as President
by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, in accordance with
section 207 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (the ``Act'') (8 U.S.C.
1157), after appropriate consultations with the Congress, and consistent with
the Report on Proposed Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2019 submitted to the
Congress on September 17, 2018, I hereby determine and authorize as follows: The
admission of up to 30,000 refugees to the United States during Fiscal Year (FY)
2019 is justified by humanitarian concerns or is otherwise in the national
interest. This number includes persons admitted to the United States during FY
2019 with Federal refugee resettlement assistance under the Amerasian immigrant
admissions program, as provided below. The admissions shall be allocated among
refugees of special humanitarian concern to the United States in accordance with
the following regional allocations: Africa.
................................................ 11,000 ...... East
Asia.............................................. 4,000 ...... Europe and
Central Asia................................ 3,000 ...... Latin America/
Caribbean................................ 3,000 ...... Near East/South
Asia................................... 9,000 ...... The number of admissions
allocated to the East Asia region shall include persons admitted to the United
States during FY 2019 with Federal refugee resettlement assistance under section
584 of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs
Appropriations Act of 1988, as contained in section 101(e) of Public Law 100-202
(Amerasian immigrants and their family members). Additionally, you are
authorized, following notification of the appropriate committees of the
Congress, to transfer unused admissions allocated to a region to one or more
other regions, if greater admissions are needed for such region or regions.

Consistent with section 2(b)(2) of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of
1962 (22 U.S.C. 2601(b)), I hereby determine that assistance to or on behalf of
persons applying for admission to the United States as part of the overseas
refugee admissions program will contribute to the foreign policy interests of
the United States, and I accordingly designate such persons for this purpose.
Consistent with section 101(a)(42) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 (a)(42)), and after
appropriate consultation with the Congress, I also specify that, for FY 2019,
the following persons may, if otherwise qualified, be considered refugees for
the purpose of admission to the United States within their countries of
nationality or habitual residence: a. persons in Cuba b. persons in Eurasia and
the Baltics c. persons in Iraq [[Page 55092]] d. persons in Honduras, Guatemala,
and El Salvador e. persons identified by a United States Embassy in any
location, in exceptional circumstances. You are authorized and directed to
publish this determination in the Federal Register.
(Presidential Sig.)                  THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, October 4, 2018  [FR Doc. 2018-24135 Filed 10-31-18; 11:15 am]
Billing code 4710-10-P

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2018 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                           Manila Times (Philippines)

                           October 31, 2018 Wednesday

INC's anti-poverty program reaches 6 continents

BYLINE: GLEE JALEA

LENGTH: 477 words


SOURCED FROM CURRENT GLOBAL NEWSPAPERS AND JOURNALS

The Iglesia Ni Cristo's Felix Y. Manalo Foundation conducted "Lingap sa
Mamamayan" (Lingap) initiatives across six continents in October to mark the
63rd birthday of INC Executive Minister Eduardo Manalo, INC general auditor
Glicerio Santos said on Tuesday.

"While poverty afflicts all nations, we must be ready to extend aid wherever it
is needed," Santos said.

"We believe that the poor need more than our pity - they need our help. And we
are prepared and willing to give it, wherever and whenever necessary," he added.

After conducting various outreach activities in the Americas, Europe, Africa,
Asia, the Middle East and Australia-New Zealand, the homegrown church with
members worldwide came home and conducted outreach activities in Tondo and
Binondo in Manila and Culiat in Quezon City over the weekend.

Santos said that the foundation gave 100,000 goodie bags and held medical and
dental missions.

Santos said the final leg of their Lingap activity for the month will be held on
Wednesday in Culiat to bring assistance to around 5,000 Muslim residents in the
area through a medical and dental assistance program.

In the past month, the foundation conducted various Lingap programs in New York
and Connecticut in the United States, and Toronto and Winnipeg in Canada.

In Toronto, beneficiaries included the Ralph Chiodo Family Immigrant Reception
Center, the Neighborhood Organization, Redwood Shelter for Women, Chrisie
Ossington Neighborhood Men's Shelter, Christie Refuge Welcome Center, Homes
First Society Youth Shelter, Flemingdon Community Food Bank, Matthew House for
Refugee Claimants, Romero House for Refugees, and the Canadian Center for
Refugee and Immigrant Health Care.

In Winnipeg, Manitoba, Santos said the assistance drive focused on the Turtle
Mountain Community Center where immigrants and vulnerable sectors were given
assistance.

Santos said residents and attendees in various Canadian locations received cash
donations. Also, 4,000 "goodwill bags" containing fleece blankets, socks, hats,
mittens, gloves, bath towels, soaps, hand sanitizers, toothbrushes, toothpaste,
shampoo, combs, ponchos, granola bars, canned foods, noodles and ready-to-eat
meals were distributed. The foundation also donated 1,000 Canadian dollars to
each of the centers and shelters.

The INC likewise held outreach activities in Kibera and Kawangware in Nairobi,
Kenya after holding similar activities in Blantyre and Samama Vil. Mangochi in
Malawi. Over 33,000 Lingap attendees were provided assistance in the African
locations.

Santos said Lingap would continue to expand and reach as many areas as possible
in the near future.

"The Church has been very blessed in its over one hundred years of existence.
And Ka Eduardo believes that it is only right that we share these blessings with
the less fortunate," he added.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2018

LANGUAGE: English

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Political/General News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 News Bites Pty Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                            The Star (South Africa)

                           October 25, 2018 Thursday
                                   E1 Edition

Trump's treatment of refugees is both a lie and cruel

SECTION: Pg. 27

LENGTH: 234 words


US President Donald Trump arrested refugees from Central America for violating
the country's laws with a new policy of "zero tolerance".

He treated them as illegal immigrants and placed them in camps while removing as
many as 2500 children from the families.

These children were sent to all parts of the country with no plan of
repatriating family members. Trump has made hundreds of them orphans.

The status of refugees was addressed at the end of World War II by the UN on
July 28, 1951 and extended by protocol on January 31, 1967 to all UN
signatories. The US incorporated it into the Refugee Act of 1980.

A refugee has been defined as "a person who is unable or unwilling to return to
his or her home country, and cannot obtain protection in their home country due
to past persecution or a well-founded fear of being persecuted in the future
because of race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular group, or
political opinion".

Trump treats illegal immigrants and refugees the same.

His assertion that the asylum-seekers represent a threat to the safety and
material well-being of the American people is one more of his fabrications.

Americans commit violent crimes at a far higher rate than legal or undocumented
immigrants.

These cruel policies are designed explicitly to strike fear in the vulnerable
and are being implemented with little planning and in violation of international
obligations.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SW


                Copyright 2018 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                           October 24, 2018 Wednesday

Trump refugee cuts can slow resurgence

BYLINE: MICHAEL HILL Associated Press

SECTION: C; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 653 words


BUFFALO, N.Y. - When thousands of others fled the struggling Rust Belt city of
Buffalo, refugees poured in to fill the void and invigorate the economy.

Blighted blocks were tidied up by new arrivals from Iraq. Shops selling
Ethiopian cuisine opened, and employers snapped up workers from Myanmar and
South Sudan. More than 12,000 refugees arrived in the area in 10 years, helping
stymie decades of dizzying population loss.

But as the Trump administration throttles the flow of refugees into the United
States and the president increases his anti-immigration rhetoric ahead of the
midterm elections, Buffalo and other cities that rely on the new arrivals are
beginning to feel the pinch.

"The number of refugees coming into Buffalo now is stalled and that hurts not
only my business, but other businesses in town," said Larry Christ, chief
operating officer of lighting manufacturer LiteLab, where six languages are
spoken on the assembly floor. "Like a car, you need gas to fuel movement
forward."

Big, burgeoning cities like San Diego and Dallas accept more refugees, but their
arrival can resonate more in smaller, shrinking cities like Buffalo and
Syracuse. Buffalo, an old steel and shipping hub, had been locked in a long,
losing struggle to keep people from leaving for places with less snow and more
jobs.

Enter refugees and immigrants.

Refugees relocated with the help of four separate agencies settle into empty
homes and fill jobs at hotels, restaurants and factories. Buffalo, which had
lost more than half its population since its postwar peak of around 580,000, is
now hovering close to 260,000 people.

"We buy a house that is very old, so we get it cheaper in this way," said Nadeen
Yousef, who fled from Iraq with her husband and four children in 2006. "And we
fix it every year."

Yousef spoke from her booth at the West Side Bazaar, a retail space that was
packed on a recent day with a lunchtime crowd buying halal food, bubble tea and
dim sum served by refugee operators. The bazaar serves as an incubator for
refugee and immigrant entrepreneurs, some of whom open their own shops selling
food from Laos or clothes from Africa.

Yousef comes in after her 5 a.m. shift at a supermarket bakery to spend the
afternoon selling handcrafted macrame products and international clothes.

The refugee reduction comes as some 7,200 Central American migrants in Mexico
continue their trek toward the U.S. border. President Donald Trump has seized on
the moment to renewed Twitter attacks against Democrats on for what he has
called "pathetic" immigration laws.

Trump last year cited national security in slashing the annual cap on refugee
arrivals to the U.S. from 110,000 to a historically low 45,000. Only 22,491
refugees entered the country last year amid a tougher review process.

The effect in the Buffalo region has been dramatic.

A metropolitan area that welcomed 1,934 refugees two years ago took in 686 last
year and is on track to receive fewer than 450 people this year, according to an
analysis of refugee placement data by the Fiscal Policy Institute. Arrivals
could dip more this coming year now that the Trump administration lowered the
refugee cap again for this budget year, to 30,000.

Refugees can cost money for localities in the short term, though there's
research showing they pay more in taxes than they receive in benefits over
years. Some local politicians have criticized refugees' cost and the potential
security risk of hosting people from Syria.

But support for refugees is broad in Buffalo, a Democrat-dominated city. The
Buffalo metropolitan area's growth rate has lagged behind the national average.
But more single-family homes are selling for more money compared to earlier this
decade.

There are multiple reasons for the uptick, but many see refugees as a crucial
cog for growth.

"We need this influx of refugees or we just become a flat economy again," said
Democratic state Assemblyman Sean Ryan.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2018 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                               The Saudi Gazette

                            October 23, 2018 Tuesday

A doomed march to America

LENGTH: 560  words


The footage of a marching column of thousands of Honduran refugees advancing
resolutely on the United States border is making outstanding television. This
group of desperate people, including women, children and babes in arms, has
already barged its way across Guatemala. Though blocked on a border river bridge
into Mexico, many of the refugees managed to cross on rafts. Then on Sunday they
faced down a line of armed Mexican policemen who were finally ordered to
retreat. Unless the Mexican government manages to stem this human tide, it is
going to wash up against the US border fence along its frontier with Mexico,
where President Donald Trump has vowed to stop them.



Honduras, from which the majority of these refugees come, along with El Salvador
and Guatemala, comprise a three-country security disaster area. Armed gangs,
financed by drug production and smuggling, are every bit as vicious than their
Mexican counterparts. But unlike Mexico, these three Central American countries
are rarely in the media spotlight. In El Salvador, at least one person in every
thousand can expect to meet a violent death. The ratio for Hondurans is only
marginally better. In such circumstances, who could blame these people for
wanting to get out? Whatever the dangers and challenges of their long march to
the US border and their likely unfriendly official reception there, they
apparently represent less risk than staying in the countries where they were
born.

Unfortunately, however laudable the motives behind this extraordinary migration,
those involved and moreover those in the West's liberal establishment who are
egging them on are just plain wrong. No country can allow an uncontrolled mass
of migrants to flood across its borders without any proven right to asylum. Even
Germany's Angela Merkel imposed order on her humanitarian decision to admit more
than a million largely Syrian refugees. And until the Assad regime attacked its
own people, Europe's main refugee challenge was from largely economic migrants
from sub-Saharan Africa.

Even if Trump is at fault in accusing his Democrat rivals of encouraging this
confrontation with US border officials, there can be little doubt that the US
political establishment is rubbing its hands with glee at the expected bad
headlines the administration is going to draw as it seeks to block this column
of desperate people. Democrats clearly hope to reap a harvest of outraged voters
in next month's mid-term elections. This clash could not have been better timed
for them. But Trump is not about to be moved. Even if, as usual, his language,
such as calling these people "aliens", is maladroit, he rightly sees this
planned migrant invasion as a challenge to everything he stands for, to his key
migration policies that won him the White House. It seems almost certain that
this is not going to end well for the thousands of marchers. Barack Obama might
have wavered and found some way to admit them. Trump will not. And however much
his political opponents dislike it he has the law on his side. And no less
importantly, polls show he has other allies. Many relatively recent migrants to
the US appear to support him, on the basis that if they had to go through the
often tortuous regular channels to get their residence or citizenship, why
should not the marchers do the same?


© Copyright 2018 The Saudi Gazette.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1526


                       Copyright 2018 The Saudi Gazette.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             Kingston Whig-Standard

                            October 12, 2018 Friday
                                 Final Edition

'An important role Canada can play'; Government has made 'positive and
welcoming'improvements in human rights practices, but more work to be done,
official says

BYLINE: Ian Macalpine, Kingston Whig-Standard

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 772  words


The Canadian government has made "positive and welcoming" improvements in its
human rights practices over the past few years, Alex Neve, Amnesty International
Canada secretary general, told the Whig-Standard on Thursday.

"Under the [Justin] Trudeau government, some of the advances we've seen with
some key human rights concerns [have been] strong advancement, in particular, of
women's human rights and gender equality, some good things with respect to
Indigenous Peoples, and refugee protection," Neve said prior to a luncheon
speech to the Kingston Canadian Club at Cataraqui Golf and Country Club.

But Neve said there remains some serious concerns in Canada when it comes to
human rights, especially regarding Indigenous Peoples.

"Although there's been important advances - certainly with a new tone and
promises of a new relationship with Indigenous Peoples - we're concerned when we
see powerful economic interests at stake the rhetoric seems to crumble away," he
said.

Neve mentioned a massive hydro electric project in northeast British Columbia
being built on Indigenous lands and the Trans Mountain Pipeline project farther
south in British Columbia as affecting Indigenous Peoples' rights.

Amnesty International protects and promotes human rights around the world. It
has seven million members in 150 countries. In Canada, it has 400,000
supporters, Neve said.

Neve has been the Canadian secretary general since 2000 and has participated in
Amnesty International missions to about a dozen countries, including South
Sudan, Tanzania, Ghana, Burundi, Colombia, Guinea, Honduras, South Africa and
Zimbabwe. He has also represented Amnesty International at international
meetings such as the Summit of the Americas and the G8 Summit, and he has
appeared before a variety of Canadian parliamentary committees as well as a
number of United Nations and Inter-American human rights bodies.

On Thursday, Neve was also to meet supporters at an evening reception in
Kingston. He said Amnesty International Canada counts on financial and activism
support from ordinary Canadians. Neve said there's a real interest in human
rights in Kingston and he called audiences here "well informed and lively."

Another issue he said the Canadian government could improve upon is the
treatment of refugees coming across our remote borders.

Neve said most Canadians are proud of having accepted 25,000 Syrian refugees in
2015 and 2016, but refugees currently crossing on foot into Canada from the
United States concerns Neve and his organization.

"There's been a significant increase in the numbers of refugees who are in the
United States but no longer feel safe for a whole variety of pretty obvious
reasons in the time of [U.S. President] Donald Trump, and are instead looking
north to come to Canada," he said.

Neve said the Safe Third Country agreement doesn't permit these people to enter
Canada through proper border crossing,s so they have to walk across farmers
fields or through dense bushes sometimes in the dead of winter to come to
Canada.

The agreement regulates refugee mobility between both Canada and the United
States. Under the agreement, both countries regard each other as safe for
refugee claimants.

"That's not the way to run a refugee protection regime," he said. "They
shouldn't be forced to make perilous journeys. They should be given access to a
fair refugee system and, if their claims are to be legitimate and substantiated,
allowed to stay."

As always, the Canadian branch is focused on worldwide issues as well, he said.

"We certainly do get engaged and speak out about human rights concerns within
Canada, but we're also very concerned about the global context and offer
opportunities for people who are concerned with what's happening in Saudi
Arabia, Syria, Myanmar, Venezuela or any other corner of the world to take
action, and that action may mean writing letters or signing petitions directed
at those governments."

Persuading the Canadian government to take a similar stance on international
issues can make a difference, too, Neve said.

"Whether that be pressuring Canada for one-on-one pressure with regards to the
country concerned, to speak out and take a stand for human rights as we saw
Canada do in August for human rights concerns in Saudi Arabia, which led to
quite a spat," he said.

As well, Neve said his branch wants input with what Canada would say at the
United Nations regarding any human rights issue.

"There's an important role Canada can play on the world stage addressing these
concerns," he said. imacalpine@postmedia.com twitter.com/IanMacAlpine
!@COPYRIGHT=© 2018 Osprey Media Group Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ian Macalpine, The Whig-Standard; Alex Neve, the secretary general for
Amnesty International Canada, made two appearances in Kingston on Thursday.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2018 Kingston Whig-Standard
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         Business Mirror (Philippines)

                             October 1, 2018 Monday

Most natural disasters caused by man's abuse of environment

LENGTH: 1169  words


Contrary to what most government agencies would like people to believe, natural
disasters are not triggered by natural events alone. Most are initiated and
aggravated by man's abuse, overuse and mismanagement of natural resources.

The Swedish Red Cross (SRC) said that throughout the world, disasters are on the
rise in terms of number and people affected, citing the latest in the
Philippines, where mining and quarrying activities allowed Typhoon Ompong
(international code name Mangkhut) to loosen soil and bury more than a hundred
people in two provinces.

Asia is the continent most prone to natural disasters, while Africa and Latin
America are roughly equal, and North America and Europe are squaring off.
Australasia has the least number of natural disasters on a yearly ratio basis,
SRC bared.

In the order of their importance on their effects on humans, disasters rank as
follows-storms/hurricanes, floods, drought, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions,
wildfires and earthquake-triggered or generated tsunami.

Climate-change refugees

These disasters are also creating a new wave of refugees called 'climate-change
refugees.'

Thousands of people deprived of food, water, livelihood and raw materials for
existence are crossing country boundaries in search for survival means,
especially in Africa.

According to the international environment and development information agency
Earthscan, is based in London, poor people in poor countries are the most
vulnerable to disasters. There are 3,000 to 5,000 deaths per disaster per year
on the average in low-income countries, compared to 800 to 1,200 in high-income
countries. However, while many developed nations are becoming prone to
disasters, like the United States, not too many people hit by the disasters die.

Both Japan and Bangladesh are hit yearly by natural disasters every year. But
the Japanese are more technologically prepared, disciplined and equipped to deal
with disasters.

Poor regard for environment

The Philippines is hit with 20 typhoons on the average each year, so are Taiwan,
China and Japan. But deaths are always more on the Philippine side because
environmental laws are lax, agencies implementing the laws are tainted with
corruption and the general population, particularly leaders, have a poor regard
and respect for the environment.

There exists a universal tenet that as we are stewards of creation, all must
care and respect the environment, something that is missing in most societies.

While environmental advocacies are gaining ground, those in developed
countries-reforestation, land care, solid-waste management, anti-mining and
logging-without doubt are evidently in effect more than in developing nations.

The Philippines, Indonesia and Vietnam have the infamy of contributing most
trash-particularly plastics-in the Asian seas, that is totally in disregard of
the environment.

On the other hand, Japan, Taiwan and China strictly enforce environmental laws,
building codes and zoning regulations and have advanced training and
communication.

Poor suffering the most

In many Asian cities, the poor live on areas prone to floods, storms, landslides
and earthquakes. They live in self-built shelters unable to stand up to strong
wind, rain or tremors. They are not taught or advised how to protect themselves
from natural disasters.

Many of Asia's poorest live in floodplains. Much of the expansion in Delhi has
been onto the floodplains of Yamuna River. Many of the 10 million squatters plus
2 million living in unauthorized subdivisions and another million living
essentially in campsites, are vulnerable to flooding-as are wealthy people who
occupy their land legally.

Of Bangkok's more than 10 million people, at least 3 million live in slums and
illegal settlements. The same with 2 million informal settlers in Manila. Many
of these are on swampy lands, riversides and canal-lines that are prone to
flooding that make them homeless.

Other Asian and Pacific cities with flood-prone shantytowns include Calcutta,
Dhaka and Port Moresby.

People to blame

In most cases, people are to blame for natural disasters. Droughts are due to
deforestation caused by logging, mining and quarrying. Abused tropical forests
erode easily, retaining insufficient water to recharge the water table.

Deforestation also worsens flooding, landslide, soil erosion and mudflows. It
creates disequilibrium of the natural water cycle, reduces rainfall, thus,
triggering droughts.

Human pressure-unsafe agriculture, settlements and landscape change-all are
primary causes of natural disasters.

In the Himalayas and China's Xing Zhou region, Cameroon and Genting Highlands of
Malaysia, as well as the Hill Tracts of Bangladesh, deforestation contribute
immensely to floods.

In the Philippines, overlogging and mining are not only to blame for
deforestation that cause floods. There is also tree cutting to accommodate
expansion of roads, construction of subdivisions, hotels, malls, golf courses
and tourism sites.

While many Asian countries are convinced that reforestation can prevent
landslides and flooding, not many have embarked on action to concretize their
ambitious goals.

The efforts of Burma/Myanmar, Cambodia, Vietnam, Nepal, Indonesia, the
Philippines and Thailand pale in comparison to South Korea, Japan, Taiwan, China
and Bhutan.

China has the proven ability to organize its population for forestation. In
Sichuan, it doubled its forest cover in 30 years. Bhutan in 2016 planted almost
a billion trees following the King's order.

When aid is not aid

Against the background of pain and suffering caused by natural disasters, it may
seem cruel to question international relief efforts. Unfortunately, disaster
relief is a mess of incorrect assumptions and mixed political and economic
motives.

Often disaster aid from rich nations tends to conform to the donor country's
foreign policy rather than to the recipient country's need. Such relief is
merely the export of surplus food and materials, oftenly, inappropriate for
disaster conditions.

When the surplus of the donor country dries up, so does the aid. Biases in
disaster relief dictate that sudden, dramatic newsworthy catastrophes receive
more aid than disasters that grind people down slowly.

Stories abound in the relief field of completely inappropriate aid-expired
medicines, corn grain where disaster area is without firewood, thick winter
clothes sent in hot humid countries, tea, tissues, tampax, or tins of chicken
cooked in pork fat for Muslim countries, etc.

Effective disaster prevention and mitigation depends on long-term planning for
development toward a more sustained and less disaster vulnerable society.

Furthermore, disaster prevention and the elimination of poverty are closely
linked, as are poverty and environmental degradation. It is likely that relief
agencies will increasingly move away from relief after the disaster, toward
disaster prevention integrated with development.

Above all, the common view of natural disasters being caused solely by natural
events, is due for a radical change.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2018 Business Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                           September 18, 2018 Tuesday

US cuts refugee admissions to 30,000 for 2019: Pompeo

BYLINE:

LENGTH: 407 words


The Trump administration slashed its annual cap on refugee acceptances Monday
for the second year in a row, saying it would take a maximum of just 30,000 in
the fiscal year to come. That was down from a 45,000 limit in the year that ends
on September 30 -- but higher than the actual number of refugees resettled in
the past year, around 21,000. It was the lowest number for the State
Department's refugee program since it was instituted in 1980. "The improved
refugee policy of this administration serves the national interest of the United
States, and expands our ability to help those in need all around the world,"
said Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. "We are and continue to be the most
generous nation in the world."

The new level was barely over one-quarter of the 110,000 cap set by former
president Barack Obama for fiscal year 2017. The sharp fall is part of President
Donald Trump's overall crackdown on immigration. "We will continue to assist the
world's most vulnerable while never losing sight of our first duty: serving the
American people," Pompeo said. Pompeo said the burden of hundreds of thousands
of asylum requests, most of them from Mexicans and Central Americans, had taxed
the bureaucracy assessing applications. He also said that the government had to
be more careful not to admit potential criminal and terror threats. "Already
this year we have seen evidence that the system previously in place was
defective," he said. "It allowed a foreign national to slip through who was
later discovered to be a member of ISIS, as well as other individuals with
criminal backgrounds." According to State Department figures through September
14 -- two weeks before the end of fiscal 2018 -- the country had admitted only
20,825 refugees, less than half of this year's quota. Of them, 9,566 were from
Africa, 3,418 from East Asia, 3,706 from the Middle East and South Asia, and
3,279 from Europe. The United States has been criticized for taking only a
handful of Syrian refugees this year out of the hundreds of thousands left
stranded by a grueling civil war. Pompeo said the United States is now
processing the applications of more than 280,000 asylum seekers, adding to
another 800,000 already awaiting adjudication of their asylum requests. But most
of those have come across the southwestern US border from Central America, and
are people the administration has labelled economic migrants who should not be
permitted to stay.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2018 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                           September 18, 2018 Tuesday

US cuts refugee admissions to 30,000 for 2019: Pompeo

BYLINE:

LENGTH: 407 words


The Trump administration slashed its annual cap on refugee acceptances Monday
for the second year in a row, saying it would take a maximum of just 30,000 in
the fiscal year to come. That was down from a 45,000 limit in the year that ends
on September 30 -- but higher than the actual number of refugees resettled in
the past year, around 21,000. It was the lowest number for the State
Department's refugee program since it was instituted in 1980. "The improved
refugee policy of this administration serves the national interest of the United
States, and expands our ability to help those in need all around the world,"
said Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. "We are and continue to be the most
generous nation in the world."

The new level was barely over one-quarter of the 110,000 cap set by former
president Barack Obama for fiscal year 2017. The sharp fall is part of President
Donald Trump's overall crackdown on immigration. "We will continue to assist the
world's most vulnerable while never losing sight of our first duty: serving the
American people," Pompeo said. Pompeo said the burden of hundreds of thousands
of asylum requests, most of them from Mexicans and Central Americans, had taxed
the bureaucracy assessing applications. He also said that the government had to
be more careful not to admit potential criminal and terror threats. "Already
this year we have seen evidence that the system previously in place was
defective," he said. "It allowed a foreign national to slip through who was
later discovered to be a member of ISIS, as well as other individuals with
criminal backgrounds." According to State Department figures through September
14 -- two weeks before the end of fiscal 2018 -- the country had admitted only
20,825 refugees, less than half of this year's quota. Of them, 9,566 were from
Africa, 3,418 from East Asia, 3,706 from the Middle East and South Asia, and
3,279 from Europe. The United States has been criticized for taking only a
handful of Syrian refugees this year out of the hundreds of thousands left
stranded by a grueling civil war. Pompeo said the United States is now
processing the applications of more than 280,000 asylum seekers, adding to
another 800,000 already awaiting adjudication of their asylum requests. But most
of those have come across the southwestern US border from Central America, and
are people the administration has labelled economic migrants who should not be
permitted to stay.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2018 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                           September 18, 2018 Tuesday

US cuts refugee admissions to 30,000 for 2019: Pompeo

BYLINE:

LENGTH: 407 words


The Trump administration slashed its annual cap on refugee acceptances Monday
for the second year in a row, saying it would take a maximum of just 30,000 in
the fiscal year to come. That was down from a 45,000 limit in the year that ends
on September 30 -- but higher than the actual number of refugees resettled in
the past year, around 21,000. It was the lowest number for the State
Department's refugee program since it was instituted in 1980. "The improved
refugee policy of this administration serves the national interest of the United
States, and expands our ability to help those in need all around the world,"
said Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. "We are and continue to be the most
generous nation in the world."

The new level was barely over one-quarter of the 110,000 cap set by former
president Barack Obama for fiscal year 2017. The sharp fall is part of President
Donald Trump's overall crackdown on immigration. "We will continue to assist the
world's most vulnerable while never losing sight of our first duty: serving the
American people," Pompeo said. Pompeo said the burden of hundreds of thousands
of asylum requests, most of them from Mexicans and Central Americans, had taxed
the bureaucracy assessing applications. He also said that the government had to
be more careful not to admit potential criminal and terror threats. "Already
this year we have seen evidence that the system previously in place was
defective," he said. "It allowed a foreign national to slip through who was
later discovered to be a member of ISIS, as well as other individuals with
criminal backgrounds." According to State Department figures through September
14 -- two weeks before the end of fiscal 2018 -- the country had admitted only
20,825 refugees, less than half of this year's quota. Of them, 9,566 were from
Africa, 3,418 from East Asia, 3,706 from the Middle East and South Asia, and
3,279 from Europe. The United States has been criticized for taking only a
handful of Syrian refugees this year out of the hundreds of thousands left
stranded by a grueling civil war. Pompeo said the United States is now
processing the applications of more than 280,000 asylum seekers, adding to
another 800,000 already awaiting adjudication of their asylum requests. But most
of those have come across the southwestern US border from Central America, and
are people the administration has labelled economic migrants who should not be
permitted to stay.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2018 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           Cameroon Tribune (Yaoundé)

                               September 03, 2018

Diplomacy - Us Envoy Assesses Humanitarian Situation

LENGTH: 398 words


03 sept. 2018 14:16

The Deputy Assistant Secretary of State, Richard Albright held an audience with
the Minister Delegate in the Ministry of External Relations in charge of
Cooperation with the Commonwealth, Felix Mbayu, Friday August 31, 2018.

US Deputy Assistant Secretary of State, Richard Albright has assessed the
humanitarian situation in Cameroon. He made the assessment during a recent
working visit to the county.

The United States diplomat held an audience with the Minister Delegate in the
Ministry of External Relations in charge of Cooperation with the Commonwealth,
Felix Mbayu, Friday August 31. He was accompanied to the in camera meeting by
the US Ambassador to Cameroon, Peter Henry Barlerin.

"I have been to the Minawawo Refugee camp in the Far North. I have seen the
great progress in caring for the large population of Nigerian refugees. They are
being cared for by UN agencies and NGOs. I am very pleased with the cooperation
between those agencies and the government of Cameroon to address the needs of
these populations. We have also been able to support these operations," Richard
Albright told reporters after the audience.

Lire aussi : Forum Chine-Afrique: la grand'messe s'ouvre ce matin à Pékin

The diplomat disclosed that the US has an envelope of US$ 85 million for
assistance in Cameroon for the year 2017- 2018 to support humanitarian
operations in the Far North and other parts of the country. It should be noted
that Richard Albright has a wide experience in managing humanitarian and
security issues as well as economic policy and development.

The US Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration (PRM) is one of the State
Department's bureau that focuses on a particular issue wherever it arises around
the world. The outfit is focussed on refugees, migrants, and conflict victims.
Their goal is to protect people, who are often living in quite dangerous
conditions.

The mission of the Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration (PRM) is to
provide protection, ease suffering, and resolve the plight of persecuted and
uprooted people around the world on behalf of the American people by providing
life-sustaining assistance, working through multilateral systems to build global
partnerships, promoting best practices in humanitarian response, and ensuring
that humanitarian principles are thoroughly integrated into US foreign and
national security policy.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2018 Cameroon Tribune
                     Distributed by AllAfrica Global Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             August 31, 2018 Friday

Washington: With the Number of Refugees Permitted to Come to the U.S. on Pace
for Lowest Number on Record, Senators Call on Trump Administration to Step Up
Efforts and Honor America's Legacy as a Safe Haven for Families Fleeing
Persecution

LENGTH: 1633 words


Washington: Office of the Senator Patty Murray has issued the following news
release:    U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Dick Durbin (D-IL) led 22 of
their Democratic Senate colleagues in a letter to President Trump demanding that
the Administration honor the United States' legacy as a nation of immigrants and
beacon of hope for families around the globe fleeing violence and persecution by
increasing the cap on the number of refugees allowed to resettle in the U.S. and
strengthening resources across the federal government to admit more refugees
into the country.  Since President Trump took office, the United States has
slashed the cap on the number of refugees allowed to resettle in the U.S. by
more than half - from 110,000 in fiscal year 2017 to only 45,000 during fiscal
year 2018, the lowest since the cap was established in 1980. Additionally, the
Trump Administration has worked to slow the resettlement of refugees in the U.S.
by limiting federal resources needed to process their admittance, including
reducing the number of staff who conduct refugee interviews. Due to these
efforts, the Trump Administration is on pace to admit approximately 21,000
refugees to the U.S. this fiscal year, the lowest number of refugees admitted to
the U.S. since the refugee resettlement program was founded four decades ago. In
their letter, the senators urged President Trump to ensure the U.S. admits
refugees during the current fiscal year consistent with the current cap of
45,000, and significantly increase the ceiling on the total number of refugees
allowed to resettle in the U.S. for fiscal year 2019.  "We encourage you, as
someone who prides himself on his management acumen, to push all relevant
federal agencies to expedite refugee processing to meet the 45,000 ceiling by
October 1," wrote the senators in their letter.

"Since our nation's founding, refugees have brought immense value, diversity,
and perseverance to the American character. These characteristics have made our
country stronger and more resilient133;[w]hile we must continue to screen
refugee applicants thoroughly, we must also conduct the vetting and interviews
in a timelier manner and address the root causes of mass displacement abroad."
In the letter, the senators also highlighted the importance of refugee
resettlement to U.S. national security priorities: "National security experts
agree on a bipartisan basis that a robust refugee program is vital for our
national security, and we are deeply concerned that your actions to reduce
refugee resettlement in the past two fiscal years has damaged our military,
diplomatic, and intelligence interests abroad. The United States should not fear
the world's most vulnerable, nor should we scapegoat victims of terror and
repression who seek refuge in the United States."  In addition to Senators
Murray and Durbin, the letter was signed by U.S. Senators Patrick Leahy (D-VT),
Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Jack Reed (D-RI), Thomas R. Carper (D-DE), Bernie
Sanders (I-VT), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Jeff Merkley (D-OR),
Michael Bennet (D-CO), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Christopher Coons (D-DE),
Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Mazie K. Hirono (D-HI),
Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Edward J. Markey (D-MA), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Chris Van
Hollen (D-MD), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Kamala Harris (D-CA), Tina Smith (D-MN),
and Ron Wyden (D-OR).  The Honorable Donald J. Trump  President of the United
States  The White House  1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW  Washington, DC  20500
Dear President Trump:  We are deeply troubled by reports that your
Administration is considering a third reduction in as many years in the number
of refugees who may be resettled in the United States.[1] We write to express
our strong support for refugees and to urge your Administration to fulfill our
nation's long-standing bipartisan commitment to providing protection and refuge
to the world's most vulnerable populations.  At a time when 44,000 people per
day are forced to flee their homes due to violence and persecution,[2] the
United States should be stepping up its global leadership and demonstrating
America's compassion--rather than shirking our legacy as a nation of immigrants
and a beacon of hope for those fleeing persecution. We therefore ask that you
intensify efforts to meet the current refugee resettlement ceiling for fiscal
year 2018 and increase the number of refugees who may be resettled in the
upcoming fiscal year.  In the Refugee Act of 1980, Congress granted the
president authority, in consultation with Congress, to determine a ceiling for
refugee admissions to the United States each year. At the time the world was
facing one of the largest refugee crises, with millions of people from
Afghanistan, Southeast Asia, and countries in the Horn of Africa displaced.
President Reagan, who vowed to "continue America's tradition as a land that
welcomes peoples from other countries [and] continue to share in the
responsibility of welcoming and resettling those who flee oppression,"[3] set
the cap at 140,000 in fiscal year 1982,[4] and the United States admitted more
than 98,000 refugees that fiscal year.[5]  In fiscal year 2016, showing global
leadership, the United States admitted 84,994.[6] While President Obama set the
refugee ceiling for fiscal year 2017 at 110,000 in response to the scale of the
global refugee crisis,[7] once you took office you slashed the cap to 50,000,
which was quickly met by July.[8] In October, we were disappointed when you set
the ceiling for fiscal year 2018 even lower at 45,000[9]--the lowest since the
ceiling was established in 1980.  Moreover, reports indicate "the Trump
administration has used bureaucratic delays to slow the number of refugees to a
trickle," including by slashing the staff who conduct interviews.[10] Based on
current rates of resettlement your Administration is on pace to admit
approximately 21,000 refugees to the United States during this fiscal
year[11]--which would be the lowest number of refugees admitted to the United
States since the program was created.[12] We encourage you, as someone who
prides himself on his management acumen, to push all relevant federal agencies
to expedite refugee processing to meet the 45,000 ceiling by October 1.  Since
our nation's founding, refugees have brought immense value, diversity, and
perseverance to the American character. These characteristics have made our
country stronger and more resilient. Reports show that refugees are highly
entrepreneurial--creating jobs for United States citizens--and generating
billions of dollars in economic growth for the United States.[13] Refugees'
labor force participation, employment rates, median income, spending power, and
rates of college graduation are robust.[14] Not only is the United States'
refugee program a moral imperative, but it also is an economic boon to our
country.  Among all travelers to the United States, refugees are the most
carefully and thoroughly vetted.[15] Prior to traveling, refugees must clear
extensive biometric, biographic, intelligence, medical, and law enforcement
checks, involving multiple agencies and extensive interviews.[16] While we must
continue to screen refugee applicants thoroughly, we must also conduct the
vetting and interviews in a timelier manner and address the root causes of mass
displacement abroad.  The refugee program Congress established in 1980
solidified our great nation's moral leadership as a beacon of hope and place of
refuge for those being persecuted. Moreover, it also served a strategic national
security goal.[17] As former Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff wrote,
"cutting refugee admittances would not only be a moral failure but also damage
our national interest abroad [133;.] Maintaining resettlement commitments is
also critical to our military, diplomatic and intelligence operations
abroad."[18] Further, as Michael Hayden, former Director of the National
Security Agency and the Central Intelligence Agency, and James Stavridis, former
NATO Supreme Allied Commander, explain, "hostility to refugees helps ISIS.
[133;] Conversely, welcoming refugees regardless of their religion, nationality,
or race exposes the falseness of terrorist propaganda and counters the warped
vision of extremists."[19] National security experts agree on a bipartisan basis
that a robust refugee program is vital for our national security, and we are
deeply concerned that your actions to reduce refugee resettlement in the past
two fiscal years has damaged our military, diplomatic, and intelligence
interests abroad. The United States should not fear the world's most vulnerable,
nor should we scapegoat victims of terror and repression who seek refuge in the
United States.  We ask that you take steps to ensure the number of refugee
admissions in fiscal year 2018 is 45,000, consistent with the current ceiling.
We further ask that you provide a significant increase above fiscal year 2018 to
the total number of refugees who may be admitted to the United States in fiscal
year 2019. If you have any questions about this issue, please contact Jake
Cornett of Senator Murray's staff at 202-224-0767.  Sincerely,     CC:       The
Honorable Mike Pompeo, Secretary of State, U.S. Department of State, 2201 C
Street, NW, Washington, DC  20520  The Honorable James N. Mattis, Secretary of
Defense, U.S. Department of Defense, 1300 Defense Pentagon, Washington, DC
20301                 The Honorable Kirstjen M. Nielsen, Secretary of Homeland
Security, U.S. Department of Homeland Security, 301 7th Street, SW, Mail Stop
0150, Washington, DC  20528  The Honorable John Bolton, National Security
Advisor, Eisenhower Executive Office Building, Room 307, 1650 Pennsylvania
Avenue, NW, Washington, DC  20503

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2018 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                            August 11, 2018 Saturday
                                  Main Edition

Welcoming refugees is what made America great

BYLINE: Mark Finney, Ph.D.

SECTION: C; Pg. 004

LENGTH: 548 words


Guest Opinion

Elise fled a civil war in Burundi, a small African nation, and applied for
refugee status with the hope of finding a safe place to raise her children.
Years later, in 2013, she received the news that the United States would take in
most of her family. However, they would have to leave two of her children, Quinn
and Jibiile, in a refugee camp with their aunts and uncles.

Elise and her husband were then faced with a choice: come to the United States
and receive the medical assistance one child needed or stay in Africa to keep
their family together. They decided to come to the United States, hoping that
Quinn and Jibiile would soon follow.

Since coming to Spokane, Elise and her family have contributed much to our
community. Her children are involved in local schools, her husband works two
jobs, and Elise will soon begin the process to become a United States citizen.
They have tried every available means to apply for their children to join them
here in Spokane. But despite their best efforts, Elise's family is still
separated.

In the next few weeks, the president will decide on a new refugee admissions cap
for 2019. Despite having the lowest admission of refugees entering our country
in the history of the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program, reports indicate that the
White House is planning to further decrease the admissions number to
approximately half of what it is this year. In Spokane we've gone from welcoming
597 refugees in 2016 to  fewer than 200 in 2018, with the very real possibility
of further cuts forcing World Relief Spokane's resettlement program to close all
together. Clearly, given such drastic cuts, the chances for families like
Elise's to be reunited become slim.

Although it has been proved that welcoming refugees into our country is helpful
for our economy and compatible with national and local security, I am most
concerned about what a rejection of refugees says of America's values.

America is a great and thriving nation because it has historically welcomed
those who were fleeing for their lives and given them an opportunity to build a
new life. This is the ancestral story many Americans carry with them, including
many of us who now call the Inland Northwest home. My hope is that Quinn,
Jibiile and thousands of other refugees will get to live that story as a result
of the president's choice in the upcoming month.

There are dozens of other stories like Elise's in our community, families
separated by war and persecution that our nation could easily reunite if we
choose to accept a reasonable number of refugees in the coming year. Refugee
resettlement makes sense. It is a solution to a horrific humanitarian crisis,
makes possible family reunification, benefits our communities in exponential
ways and is sewn into the fabric of our country's history.

Stories like Elise's remind us that we must continue to stand for and with
refugees and immigrants in our community, advocating for compassionate,
common-sense policies. If you would like to help Elise and other families with
similar stories, I ask that you would take a minute to pick up your phone and
call the White House and your local elected officials to ask them to allow at
least 75,000 refugees to come to the U.S. next year.

, is director of World Relief Spokane

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2018 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                              64 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                  Korea Times

                            August 8, 2018 Wednesday

Your kind aren't welcomed here

BYLINE: By Deauwand Myers

LENGTH: 852 words


'Every woman adores a Fascist, /The boot in the face, the brute /Brute heart of
a brute like you.' (From 'Daddy' by Sylvia Plath)These lines from Plath's famous
poem often come to mind when I reckon with the current state of world affairs.
Across Europe, the United States, and places in between, an apparent resurgence
of the good, bad old days, when fascism, xenophobia, and cheap and easy populist
rhetoric from gaudy, feckless political figures gripped much of the world. Have
we forgotten the 20th century, with its Stalin, Lenin, Hitler, Mussolini,
Polpot, and Mao Zedong: its pogroms and purges; its Holocaust and World Wars;
its conflagration of miseries and atomic afterglows?

The cicatrix of Poland and the cicatrix of Cambodia and Laos, the burned-out
remains of Hue, the palls from these were thick with the stench of death; we,
some of us at least, do not remember.Americans are often accused of being poor
students of history. Yet, places where genocide and fascism's grip were
commonplace in living memory: Hungary and Poland, England and Italy, for
example, a swell of right-wing, anti-immigrant, nationalist, xenophobic and
white supremacy has taken hold.Granted, democracy is fairly new for the human
species. Theocracies, monarchies and vast dictatorships have mostly been the way
in which we've organized civilization throughout recorded history. This is the
danger we now face with Trump and company in power: a longing for the years of
the black, crooked cross and the red flags of glory. Never mind the deaths of
tens of millions, the cruelties and mass murders. We were one nation, under a
kind of god. On his recent and infamous trip to Europe, Trump stated that
European leaders 'better watch themselves' because immigration is 'changing the
culture' of their societies. He went on: 'I think it has been very bad, for
Europe ... I think what has happened is very tough " I just think it is changing
the culture, I think it is a very negative thing for Europe " I know it is
politically not necessarily correct to say that, but I will say it and I will
say it loud.' He should have used the adverb 'loudly,' but I digress. Trump was
most likely referring to the waves of refugees making the deadly trek towards
Europe from decimated Syria and other unstable countries in the Middle East and
North Africa, places wracked by war and famine.This sentiment of 'us versus the
unwashed, colored masses' isn't an exclusively Anglo-American and European one
either.A coordinated, brutal mass murder and forcible removal of the minority
Rohingya Muslims by the Buddhist majority Myanmarese government has ensued for
years now.Just a few weeks prior to Trump's predictably treacherous (and
ill-informed) comments on 'immigration,' hundreds of thousands of Koreans
petitioned the government to disallow any refugees from entering Korea in
response to Yemeni refugees entering Jeju Island.Korean society, for all its
democratic and economic progress, is still deeply racist and xenophobic.
Moreover, those Koreans opposing the 550-plus Yemeni refugees fleeing war-torn
Yemen have a short memory. Millions of ethnic Koreans have resettled in China,
Japan and North America during and after the Korean War and in the
quasi-dictatorships of the 1970s-1990s.Further, like Trump, some European
politicians and political parties, and some Koreans, there is (I think often
deliberately so) a conflation of illegal, economic immigration and legitimate
refugees seeking lawful political asylum. The 1951 United Nations Convention
Relating to the Status of Refugees and the 1967 Protocol Relating to the Status
of Refugees (Europe and Korea are signatories to both) guarantees basic human
rights for political refugees. The Yemeni refugees clearly fall under these
conventions' purview.These refugee conventions were signed to address the
appalling ways in which refugees were treated in World War II. The U.S., et al.,
could have saved thousands of Jews fleeing Nazi Germany. In one terrible
incident, America rejected a ship of 900 German Jews. Not long thereafter, the
U.S. declined to enact a proposal to allow some 20,000 Jewish children fleeing
burning Europe to stay in America. We know the ghastly end to that story.Besides
the obvious moral implications of rejecting refugees, economic immigration built
Canada, America, Australia, New Zealand, and rebuilt much of post-WWII Europe,
particularly places like Britain.Xenophobia is a key constituent in demolishing
democracy. Racism and fear - albeit useful political tools - can only lead
towards death and human misery. (The conservative estimate for WWII's death toll
is 80 million).I worry Plath was all too correct. Every woman, indeed, every
person, does adore a fascist. The satanic sheen of shiny, black boots, and
goose-stepping soldiers in pressed and glittery military regalia marching
through the streets may very well be appealing and romantic to the dark and
shadowy places of the human heart.

Deauwand Myers (deauwand@hotmail.com) holds a master's degree in English
literature and literary theory, and is an English professor outside Seoul.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2018 The Korea Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                 Al-Arab Weekly

                                 August 5, 2018

Fear of migrants unites right-wing populists in US, Europe

BYLINE: Mark Habeeb

LENGTH: 938  words


On both sides of the Atlantic, right-wing populist movements have identified
immigrants and refugees as a cause of their frustration.

Much in common. A picture of Italian Interior Minister and deputy Prime Minister
Matteo Salvini (R) and US President Donald Trump is pinned on a board at the
office of the Italian far-right party, the Lega, in Varese. (AFP)

On both sides of the Atlantic, right-wing populist movements have identified
immigrants and refugees as a cause of their frustration.

T h e

A r a b

W e e k l y

The Arab Weekly

Liberal democracy in Europe and the United States is being shaken by populist
right-wing movements variously described as nativist, ethnic supremacist and
even fascist. Populist left-wing movements -- such as Podemos in Spain, Syriza
in Greece and the supporters of Bernie Sanders in the United States -- have
grown in popularity but not to the same degree.

How can the term populist apply to both right- and left-wing groups? Cas Mudde,
a professor at the University of Georgia in the United States and the co-author
of "Populism: A Very Short Introduction," said populism simply refers to a
movement that is opposed to the existing governing class, which it believes is
morally bankrupt and works against the interests of the common people.

Whether ideologically leftist or right-wing, populist movements thrive when
people are frustrated with their lives and prospects. They tend to pinpoint a
particular group or concept as the source of their frustration: For left-wing
populists, the enemy is global capitalism and the institutions that bolster it;
for right-wing populism, it often is minority groups in a country and immigrants
or refugees who wish to enter.

Since the June 2016 Brexit vote in the United Kingdom and the election of Donald
Trump as US president, right-wing populism has been on the ascendance. Populist
right-wing parties have won office in Austria, Hungary, Poland and Italy and
waged serious challenges in France, Germany and the Netherlands. Left-wing
populism has been less successful at the polls: Syriza holds power in Greece and
Mexico just elected a populist left-wing presidential candidate, Andres Manuel
Lopez Obrador.

US and European versions of right-wing populism have much in common: A call for
a return to tradition (however that is defined); hostility to globalisation,
multilateralism and multiculturalism; charismatic (some would say demagogic)
leadership; and a curious fondness for Russian President Vladimir Putin.

On both sides of the Atlantic, right-wing populist movements have identified
immigrants and refugees as a cause of their frustration and a direct danger to
the nation. In Europe, this has taken the form of hostility towards migrants,
refugees and asylum-seekers from the Arab world and Africa. In the United States
, the hostility is towards those trying to enter the country from Central
America and Mexico, as well as those from Muslim-majority countries.

Right-wing populism in Europe is more overtly linked to ethnic chauvinism than
it is in the United States. European right-wing populists openly express fear
that immigration will change their cultures and traditions and even threaten
their languages. In the United States, immigration is framed as a security issue
-- Central American drug gangs, Islamic terrorists -- and a threat to jobs, even
though most immigrants take jobs few Americans want and the national
unemployment rate is at its lowest level in many years.

Ethno-racist chauvinism plays a huge role in American right-wing populism,
although it is rarely talked about except in dark corners of the internet. The
US population is projected to become majority non-white by the middle of this
century and many white Americans view this prospect as an existential threat. It
is no coincidence that the anti-immigrant forces in the United States focus on
the Mexican border, where the people crossing into the country are mostly
brown-skinned.

The Irish Embassy in Washington has estimated that there are as many as 50,000
undocumented Irish citizens living in the United States but there have been no
calls for their expulsion.

This shared concern over ethnic dilution is thus a common concern in US and
European right-wing populist movements. In both cases, the feared immigrants
hail from regions that were once either official colonies (North Africa and the
Middle East) or de facto colonies (Central America), regions that also face
widespread economic, social and political challenges.

For some reason, neither Europe nor the United States is devoting significant
resources to improving conditions in these regions to reduce migration. Trump
and his supporters demand a wall along the US-Mexico border that will cost more
than $25 billion to construct. The same amount spent on economic and social
development in Central America could do wonders but Trump has proposed cutting
US aid to the region.

There is a myth embedded deep in the Western psyche: The fall of Rome, which
claims a great civilisation was overrun by barbarians who sacked the great city
on the Tiber and slaughtered its people. Rome, indeed, did fall but not like
that. It was a slow process that was caused more by internal social decay than
by hordes of conquering barbarians.

In any event, migrants and refugees seeking to enter the United States and
Europe are not barbarians; they are human beings often fleeing unbearable
conditions in search of better lives. As the Somali-British poet Warsan Shire
writes: "No one leaves home unless home is the mouth of a shark... no one puts
their children in a boat unless the water is safer than the land."

Alarab Online.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 172


                         Copyright 2018 Alarab Online.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 22, 2018 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

How to Make a Life From Scratch

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH ALEXANDER; ) was President Barack Obama's inaugural poet in
2009. She is the president of the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation and the author of,
most recently, ''The Light of the World.&#x201D

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1460 words


A few weeks ago, I attended an Eritrean Orthodox Christian and American Orthodox
Jewish wedding in New York. The Eritreans came from all over the globe, where
war and conflict had scattered them over the past two generations, and from all
over the country.

The Eritrean women came in their traditional white dresses and shawls called
netsela; the men were elegant and grave in their dark Western suits. The wine
glass was smashed; the Jewish family linked arms and danced in a circle; the
Eritreans danced a circle dance called the kuda. The Jewish men hoisted the
bride high on a chair; the Eritreans ululated in the temple.

It was a complex, beautiful day. Centuries of tradition came together. The bride
and groom could meet in America because war had scattered African families as
the Holocaust had scattered Jewish families, and all made themselves anew in
their new space.

The huppah is the canopy carried in a Jewish wedding. It symbolizes shelter for
the newlyweds. The sides of the huppah are always open, which lets in light and
air but also people, so that the home of the newlyweds is shared and the pot of
stone soup is shared, invoking the tent where Abraham welcomed visitors and
angels. Let your house be wide open, and open on all sides to welcome wayfarers.

My side is the Eritrean side, though I am not Eritrean; my late husband was. The
bride was the niece who became my daughter when she came to America at 16 to
live with us. War made it impossible for her to stay where she was, and her
mother said to me, ''She is your daughter now,'' while I was pregnant with what
I thought was my first child.

So life goes on, and families expand, and the blessings and responsibilities of
others come your way.

Critical thinking develops when you go outside of your comfort zone, when you
eat a different bread from the one you grew up with. Challah, chapati, hot-water
cornbread, pita, injera, baguette -- how wonderful to eat a different bread, a
differently spiced meal. How wonderful to sleep next to someone who might be
dreaming in a language different from your own.

Picture this wedding photo: My 10-year-old great-nephew, Maxie, who is Scottish
and Eritrean, lives in Aberdeen, Scotland, and traveled to see his auntie get
married. In the photograph, he wears a kilt in the plaid of his father's clan,
and atop his head is a tartan yarmulke made specially for the occasion for him
to wear in the temple. He has the sweetest shy smile you have ever seen, and he
is learning to dance an Eritrean dance with the older men in the family.

This is the beauty of diaspora, of culture crossing, of not knowing what is
around the corner, of making life anew and something new after disruption. I
think he may be the only Scottish-Eritrean boy with a tartan skullcap in the
whole wide world. But surely he is not the last.

This family is my family because my husband came to the United States in 1981
from Eritrea, a small country in East Africa, after decades of an independence
war and a scourge called the Red Terror. He was a refugee, a person who has been
forced to leave his country to escape war, persecution or natural disaster.

What do you picture when you hear the word ''refugee''? What are we being asked
to picture as we listen to the constant description of America as an unwelcoming
place, a house with doors and windows locked shut?

Ficre Ghebreyesus, my late husband, the refugee I married. He fled death squads,
hid from soldiers when they broke into his home, saw classmates disappeared.
This was the norm for every family he knew. At 16, he was sent away by his
mother to save his life. He journeyed on foot to Sudan, then Italy, then
Germany, and from there, to the United States, eventually landing in New Haven.

His full name was Ficremariam Ghebreyesus. In Italy he was called Marco. I do
not know what he was called in Germany. In the United States he was called
Freddy by the owner of the local Chinese herb store, who was named Li-biao and
whom most of New Haven called Bill. He was called Fiore by New Haven
Italian-Americans, holding on to their own mother tongue in a new space.

Here is what he did when he came to the United States: He worked, usually three
not particularly enjoyable jobs at a time requiring multiple bus trips, long and
lonely nights. And then he made friends. And then he became part of his
community. And then he built and enriched that community.

People from our Eritrean family came at different times of conflict. The last
wave was after the Ethiopian-Eritrean border war in 1998, when some Eritreans
were rounded up from their jobs in Ethiopia and put in jail. That war, which
cost tens of thousands of lives, formally ended only this month, closing over a
half-century of conflict.

Ficre considered himself African-American, African, Eritrean, East African,
Asmarino, human. He lived in those identities. He had read more books than
anyone I knew, spoke eight languages, started a restaurant that fed a community
for years and made 882 paintings, some of which will be shown at a one-man show
at the Museum of the African Diaspora in San Francisco in September.

He became a United States citizen, and we went to the ceremony in the New Haven
courthouse and I saw, in the world that was there, a premise and promise of
America. I thought about the phrase ''radical welcome.''

Ficre lived with anxiety that never left him -- though he was the most joyful
man anyone who knew him ever knew. After the Sept. 11 attacks, when brown people
and people with ''unusual'' last names were being rounded up, he would break
into an anxious sweat most days, worried that he was no longer secure in what
was now his country. That he might be separated from me, and from his beloved
boys.

He once sat on a tree stump in the backyard of our home, so far from where he
grew up, and said, ''Baby, it may sound funny, but this feels like Africa to
me.''

One of my sisters-in-law, also a refugee, began a new life from scratch in the
United States before her husband and remaining child at home could join her. She
left everything material behind in Ethiopia -- home, car, furnishings, jewelry.
A few things eventually made their way back to her. She'd get a call to meet a
plane at Kennedy Airport and a package of something precious would come: spices,
fabric, a packet of documents.

The best was when her small coffee table came, with compartments for coffee
cups, and a small rug made of artificial grass. She did the sacred Eritrean
coffee ceremony and for a moment was no longer a refugee but rather a woman
performing the rituals she had performed all her life.

''I am home now,'' she said, as she poured us cup after cup of coffee. She has
since died. It was her daughter who just married.

For what is the meaning of life, after all, than coffee and tea and talk with
loved ones?

What is home, to a refugee? I never took home for granted. But it never occurred
to me that I might not have my home.

''I don't want the children to be refugees,'' my husband would say, and we'd
share a dark, knowing laugh. ''But I do want them to know what we refugees know:
that you can make your life from scratch. I want the children to have the
strength and wile of survivors.''

''We refugees,'' he said, by which he meant, we refugees who survive.

Ficre died unexpectedly, a few days after his 50th birthday, from cardiac
arrest. We'd thought he was healthy. Several doctors separately said to me they
were not surprised to hear he was a refugee. More than one cardiologist told me,
the heart is a metaphor and the heart is real. Sustained strain can break the
heart. People who walk to freedom often carry that strain for the rest of their
lives, invisible, but ever-present.

Yes, he was mine and now I sing his song. But he was also no different from so
many other refugees who have to leave their homes, people with names that some
make little effort to pronounce who continue to build America. Nor am I any
different from the millions of people who fell in love and made family here.

Ficre's presence in my life reminds me of the limits and dangers of nationalism
everywhere, that families can be torn apart for generations and that in the
words of the poet W. H. Auden, ''we must love one another or die.''

And in the story of Ficre is the lesson that we are impoverished if we remain
strangers to one another and that what makes this country unique is that the
world is in it.

Ficre left this earth too early. So it is my job to tell his American story. I
offer this story to ask, will we build homes with open sides that welcome
wayfarers into our lives?

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the  Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/21/opinion/sunday/how-to-make-a-life-from-scratc
h.html

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A self-portrait by Ficre Ghebreyesus, the author's late husband.
(PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF THE ESTATE OF FICRE GHEBREYESUS) (SR5)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2018 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        July 21, 2018 Saturday 12:03 EST

How to Make a Life From Scratch

BYLINE: Elizabeth Alexander

SECTION: OPINION; sunday

LENGTH: 1484 words



HIGHLIGHT: My husband was no different from so many other refugees who have to
leave their homes.


A few weeks ago, I attended an Eritrean Orthodox Christian and American Orthodox
Jewish wedding in New York. The Eritreans came from all over the globe, where
war and conflict had scattered them over the past two generations, and from all
over the country.

The Eritrean women came in their traditional white dresses and shawls called
netsela; the men were elegant and grave in their dark Western suits. The wine
glass was smashed; the Jewish family linked arms and danced in a circle; the
Eritreans danced a circle dance called the kuda. The Jewish men hoisted the
bride high on a chair; the Eritreans ululated in the temple.

It was a complex, beautiful day. Centuries of tradition came together. The bride
and groom could meet in America because war had scattered African families as
the Holocaust had scattered Jewish families, and all made themselves anew in
their new space.

The huppah is the canopy carried in a Jewish wedding. It symbolizes shelter for
the newlyweds. The sides of the huppah are always open, which lets in light and
air but also people, so that the home of the newlyweds is shared and the pot of
stone soup is shared, invoking the tent where Abraham welcomed visitors and
angels. Let your house be wide open, and open on all sides to welcome wayfarers.

My side is the Eritrean side, though I am not Eritrean; my late husband was. The
bride was the niece who became my daughter when she came to America at 16 to
live with us. War made it impossible for her to stay where she was, and her
mother said to me, "She is your daughter now," while I was pregnant with what I
thought was my first child.

So life goes on, and families expand, and the blessings and responsibilities of
others come your way.

Critical thinking develops when you go outside of your comfort zone, when you
eat a different bread from the one you grew up with. Challah, chapati, hot-water
cornbread, pita, injera, baguette -- how wonderful to eat a different bread, a
differently spiced meal. How wonderful to sleep next to someone who might be
dreaming in a language different from your own.

Picture this wedding photo: My 10-year-old great-nephew, Maxie, who is Scottish
and Eritrean, lives in Aberdeen, Scotland, and traveled to see his auntie get
married. In the photograph, he wears a kilt in the plaid of his father's clan,
and atop his head is a tartan yarmulke made specially for the occasion for him
to wear in the temple. He has the sweetest shy smile you have ever seen, and he
is learning to dance an Eritrean dance with the older men in the family.

This is the beauty of diaspora, of culture crossing, of not knowing what is
around the corner, of making life anew and something new after disruption. I
think he may be the only Scottish-Eritrean boy with a tartan skullcap in the
whole wide world. But surely he is not the last.

This family is my family because my husband came to the United States in 1981
from Eritrea, a small country in East Africa, after decades of an independence
war and a scourge called the Red Terror. He was a refugee, a person who has been
forced to leave his country to escape war, persecution or natural disaster.

What do you picture when you hear the word "refugee"? What are we being asked to
picture as we listen to the constant description of America as an unwelcoming
place, a house with doors and windows locked shut?

Ficre Ghebreyesus, my late husband, the refugee I married. He fled death squads,
hid from soldiers when they broke into his home, saw classmates disappeared.
This was the norm for every family he knew. At 16, he was sent away by his
mother to save his life. He journeyed on foot to Sudan, then Italy, then
Germany, and from there, to the United States, eventually landing in New Haven.

His full name was Ficremariam Ghebreyesus. In Italy he was called Marco. I do
not know what he was called in Germany. In the United States he was called
Freddy by the owner of the local Chinese herb store, who was named Li-biao and
whom most of New Haven called Bill. He was called Fiore by New Haven
Italian-Americans, holding on to their own mother tongue in a new space.

Here is what he did when he came to the United States: He worked, usually three
not particularly enjoyable jobs at a time requiring multiple bus trips, long and
lonely nights. And then he made friends. And then he became part of his
community. And then he built and enriched that community.

People from our Eritrean family came at different times of conflict. The last
wave was after the Ethiopian-Eritrean border war in 1998, when some Eritreans
were rounded up from their jobs in Ethiopia and put in jail. That war, which
cost tens of thousands of lives, formally ended only this month, closing over a
half-century of conflict.

Ficre considered himself African-American, African, Eritrean, East African,
Asmarino, human. He lived in those identities. He had read more books than
anyone I knew, spoke eight languages, started a restaurant that fed a community
for years and made 882 paintings, some of which will be shown at a one-man show
at the Museum of the African Diaspora in San Francisco in September.

He became a United States citizen, and we went to the ceremony in the New Haven
courthouse and I saw, in the world that was there, a premise and promise of
America. I thought about the phrase "radical welcome."

Ficre lived with anxiety that never left him -- though he was the most joyful
man anyone who knew him ever knew. After the Sept. 11 attacks, when brown people
and people with "unusual" last names were being rounded up, he would break into
an anxious sweat most days, worried that he was no longer secure in what was now
his country. That he might be separated from me, and from his beloved boys.

He once sat on a tree stump in the backyard of our home, so far from where he
grew up, and said, "Baby, it may sound funny, but this feels like Africa to me."

One of my sisters-in-law, also a refugee, began a new life from scratch in the
United States before her husband and remaining child at home could join her. She
left everything material behind in Ethiopia -- home, car, furnishings, jewelry.
A few things eventually made their way back to her. She'd get a call to meet a
plane at Kennedy Airport and a package of something precious would come: spices,
fabric, a packet of documents.

The best was when her small coffee table came, with compartments for coffee
cups, and a small rug made of artificial grass. She did the sacred Eritrean
coffee ceremony and for a moment was no longer a refugee but rather a woman
performing the rituals she had performed all her life.

"I am home now," she said, as she poured us cup after cup of coffee. She has
since died. It was her daughter who just married.

For what is the meaning of life, after all, than coffee and tea and talk with
loved ones?

What is home, to a refugee? I never took home for granted. But it never occurred
to me that I might not have my home.

"I don't want the children to be refugees," my husband would say, and we'd share
a dark, knowing laugh. "But I do want them to know what we refugees know: that
you can make your life from scratch. I want the children to have the strength
and wile of survivors."

"We refugees," he said, by which he meant, we refugees who survive.

Ficre died unexpectedly, a few days after his 50th birthday, from cardiac
arrest. We'd thought he was healthy. Several doctors separately said to me they
were not surprised to hear he was a refugee. More than one cardiologist told me,
the heart is a metaphor and the heart is real. Sustained strain can break the
heart. People who walk to freedom often carry that strain for the rest of their
lives, invisible, but ever-present.

Yes, he was mine and now I sing his song. But he was also no different from so
many other refugees who have to leave their homes, people with names that some
make little effort to pronounce who continue to build America. Nor am I any
different from the millions of people who fell in love and made family here.

Ficre's presence in my life reminds me of the limits and dangers of nationalism
everywhere, that families can be torn apart for generations and that in the
words of the poet W. H. Auden, "we must love one another or die."

And in the story of Ficre is the lesson that we are impoverished if we remain
strangers to one another and that what makes this country unique is that the
world is in it.

Ficre left this earth too early. So it is my job to tell his American story. I
offer this story to ask, will we build homes with open sides that welcome
wayfarers into our lives?

Elizabeth Alexander (@ProfessorEA) was President Barack Obama's inaugural poet
in 2009. She is the president of the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation and the author
of, most recently, "The Light of the World."

PHOTO: A self-portrait of Ficre Ghebreyesus, the author's late husband.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY Courtesy of the estate of Ficre Ghebreyesus FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2018 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                              July 8, 2018 Sunday
                                 METRO EDITION

Memoir recounts incredible hardships of a refugee's life

BYLINE: LAURIE HERTZEL; STAFF WRITER, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)

SECTION: VARIETY; Pg. 9E

LENGTH: 637 words



HIGHLIGHT: NONFICTION: Unforgettable story of a child displaced by war is a
crucial, timely read.


Clemantine Wamariya fled genocide in her native Rwanda when she was 6 years old.
She and her 15-year-old sister Claire were on the run for the next six years,
hiding out in banana groves, living in refugee camps, hauling jugs of water,
digging flesh-burrowing bugs out of their feet, foraging for firewood, sleeping
on cardboard, sleeping in mud, eating maize and beans, maize and beans, maize
and beans, eating grasshoppers, crossing raging rivers in leaky boats, walking
for days, trying to stay clean, trying to stay human.

All of Clemantine's toenails fell out. She had to have her head shaved, to get
rid of the lice. She was exhausted all the time. She was a child of 6, then 7,
then 8, 9, 10, 11. "Staying alive was so much work," she writes in her
unforgettable memoir, "The Girl Who Smiled Beads." "I was hungry, I was thirsty,
I needed a bathroom, I needed a place to sleep. I was so confused. I just kept
spinning."

Wherever she was, she tried to keep herself and her scrap of shelter clean. She
railed against other children in the camps: "I couldn't stand the naked two- and
three-year-olds. They looked to me like strays - filthy, unloved, drooling, bugs
crawling on their faces, flies around their eyes that nobody bothered to swat."

She yelled at them to put on some clothes. She was terrified she would forget
what it meant to be civilized. To be human.

For six years, she and Claire moved around Africa, from Rwanda to Burundi to
South Africa to Tanzania to Zambia to Zaire and back to Rwanda. Mostly, they
walked. They did not know where their parents were, nor their brother. Claire's
dreams of studying at McGill University were long gone; instead, she became
skilled at bartering and hustling.

Clemantine saved rocks in her Mickey Mouse backpack, one from each place they
stayed, "to keep track of where we'd been." When she lost the backpack, she was
inconsolable. Earlier she had described her fear as "bright blue." Now, her rage
was "dark red."

This gripping memoir follows two parallel tracks: Clemantine's life on the run
in Africa, and her life in the United States, where she was granted refugee
status at the age of 12.

Her fury did not abate in the U.S. She is deeply grateful to the foster mother
who took her in, gave her space and calm, bought her clothes, helped her with
school. Mrs. Thomas "understood my fear of being lost or left behind,"
Clemantine writes. With Mrs. Thomas' help, Clemantine was accepted into Yale and
graduated with a degree in comparative literature.

But life in America ("the ultimate land of hustle and reward") had its own
terrors. Once the wearying grind of finding food and water was lifted and she
was safe, she was engulfed in trying to deal with her trauma and grief. In
school, when the class studied genocide, she fell apart.

The agony of displacement does not magically vanish in a new, safer country.
Even after she was reunited with her parents - in the oddest possible way, on
Oprah Winfrey's television show - the break could not be mended. The damage of
years of war and separation was not easily repaired. At age 30, she is still
working on it.

Memoirs by immigrants and refugees are growing in number; they are important
stories that need to be told, and told in the kind of bug-and-mud-and-dysentery
detail that Wamariya's is told.

Especially now, with families walking for weeks across Mexican deserts only to
be separated in the United States, this book is crucial. It is our human tragedy
that there will always be war, and that there will always be displaced people.
Memoirs that show exactly what that means, exactly what the toll is, are vital.

Laurie Hertzel is the senior editor for books at the Star Tribune.

The Girl Who Smiled Beads: A Story of War and What Comes After

By: Clemantine Wamariya and Elizabeth Weil.

Publisher: Crown, 275 pages, $26.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2018 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                        CE Noticias Financieras English

                             July 5, 2018 Thursday

US Intake Of Refugees Falls Below Rest Of The World For First Time: Report

LENGTH: 397  words


The number of refugees resettled in the United States has fallen below the total
intake by the rest of the world for the first time in 38 years, data shows.

This is a huge turn around from the immigrant-friendly attitude of the U.S.
governments, which have historically led the world in refugee resettlement.
Since 1980, the U.S. has taken in 3 million of the more than 4 million refugees
resettled worldwide.

But in 2017, the U.S. resettled only 33,000 refugees, the country's lowest total
since the years following the 9/11 terrorist attacks. This represents the first
time since the adoption of the 1980 U.S. Refugee Act that the U.S. resettled
fewer refugees than the rest of the world.

Notably, it is a steep drop from 2016, when the US Government resettled about
97,000 people seeking asylum.

These details have been revealed by Pew Research Center, which published a
report after analyzing latest data from the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees (UNHCR).

U.S. refugee resettlement process is progressing in a slow pace to remain at
historically low levels in 2018, PEW says. The Trump administration lowered the
refugee ceiling for fiscal 2018 to 45,000 refugees - the lowest cap since the
Refugee Act was adopted by Congress. The U.S. has admitted more than 16,000
refugees with about three months remaining in the current fiscal year, according
to U.S. State Department data.

The report also notes that the number of Muslim refugees admitted to the U.S.
has dropped more than other religious groups.

Non-U.S. countries resettled more than twice as many refugees as the U.S. in
2017 - 69,000 - even though refugee resettlement in these nations was down from
92,000 in the previous year.

Despite a sharp single-year decline in refugee resettlement, the U.S. still
leads the world having resettled more refugees (33,000) than any other country,
the Washington-based fact tank says. Following the U.S. were Canada (27,000),
Australia (15,000) and the United Kingdom (6,000). Sweden, Germany, Norway and
France each resettled about 3,000 refugees.

The decline in refugee resettlement comes as the global refugee population
increased by 2.75 million, and reached a record 19.9 million in 2017, according
to UNHCR.

More than half (56%) of refugees resettled worldwide were citizens of countries
in the Middle East-North Africa region, mostly from Syria.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CENFENG

                      Copyright 2018 Content Engine, LLC.
                              All Rights Reserved
                     Copyright 2018 CE Noticias Financieras
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                              June 25, 2018 Monday

Egypt unique model for hosting migrants, refugees: diplomats

BYLINE: Hagar Omran

LENGTH: 843 words


While the world was celebrating World Refugee Day on 20 June, US President
Donald Trump was signing an executive order on Wednesday that reversed his
decision to separate migrant families crossing the border from Mexico, following
a global outcry.

The "zero tolerance" policy instituted by the US faced mounting criticism, as
around 2,000 children were separated from their parents after illegally crossing
the southern US border over a recent six-week period, according to global media
reports.

Daily News Egypt examines the Egyptian model of hosting refugees and migrants
and compares it with the American one in light of the recent global and local
developments.

Egypt remained a transit and destination country for refugees and mixed
movements, which was reflected by the diversity of the registered population
from 58 different countries, including Iraq, Syria, and various sub-Saharan
African countries, according to the UNHCR, the UN refugee agency.

Egypt allows refugees to be involved in community, does not force them to live
in camps

Rakha Ahmed, former deputy minister of foreign affairs, said that Egypt has a
longstanding history of hosting as many migrants and refugees around the world
as possible, noting, "Egypt is a regional power in the Middle East region. We
hosted many of the Armenians following the first world war, who peacefully lived
in Egypt".

In 2017, a generally conducive asylum environment was upheld. Egypt grants
access to public healthcare to all refugees and asylum seekers and allows
Syrians and Sudanese access to its public education system, according to the
UNHCR website.

Difficult socioeconomic conditions in Egypt, with high inflation levels and
increased costs of living, impacted the lives of Egyptians, refugees, and
asylum-seekers alike, especially the most vulnerable.

However, Ahmed added that Egypt allows refugees to be involved in the community
and does not force them to live in camps or prevent them from getting jobs,
saying, "now we have many successful Syrian small and micro business in the food
industry sector. However, the US is a different country as it is a migration
basis country."

Ahmed noted that many citizens from Latin America expanded in illegal migration
to the United States, adding, "Donald Trump announced many racist statements
regarding migrants from Africa and other Middle East countries".

Ahmed mentioned that many European countries encourage so-called brain drain
migration, as they choose the most professional and talented people from African
and poor countries and offer them better jobs, good opportunities, and
nationalities to benefit from their talents.

Europe needs more young migrants to keep living

"Age averages in European countries are very high because of the advanced
healthcare, while youth are not totally in agreement about with having babies,
so governments try to get talented generations of migrants to keep the country
working," said Ahmed, noting that Portugal recently announced an offer to
receive about 400 refugees who live in Cairo.

Egypt welcomed the offer by Portugal to host a number of refugees currently
residing in the country, according to a statement released by the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs on Friday.

As a part of the cooperation between the EU and Egypt on the issue, Portugal
offered to host 400 refugees in the years 2018 and 2019, in cooperation and
coordination with local authorities and the UNHCR.

The statement came in response to queries from a number of diplomatic reporters
about the news circulated about the possibility of Portugal receiving refugees
residing in Egypt.

"The number of refugees offered to be received by Portugal is not very big, but
it is just a beginning, I hope we will see other European countries doing the
same in the future," added Ahmed.

In 2017, Egypt experienced the highest number of arrivals since 2013, close to
40,000, with approximately 18,000 from Syria. The continuous increase in new
registrations of refugees, coupled with funding constraints and inflation,
hampered the UNHCR's ability to assist all those in need, in particular the
non-Syrian populations of concern.

Egypt deals with Arab refugees, migrants as its 'old sister duty'

"Egypt deals with the Arab refugees and migrants as its old sister duty and help
them to get over their difficulties," said Gamal Bayomi, former head of the
Europe department at the International Cooperation Ministry, noting that Egypt
hosts about 4 million undocumented Sudanese refugees, about 1 million Syrian
refugees, and many Iraqis, Palestinians, and Lebanese migrants as well.

Bayomi added that the Portuguese offer to host about 400 refugees who live in
Egypt is very modest, but that perhaps the small number expresses the people
whose documents are well prepared, noting that other European countries may
announce similar offers as Europe needs more young migrants to keep living.

"Egypt hosts about 4 millions refugees and it has not ever complained of having
them and it works closely with international agencies to efficiently help them
live better," said Bayomi.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2018 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                   The Times-Tribune (Scranton, Pennsylvania)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              June 25, 2018 Monday

Refugees celebrate America, their cultures and each other at World Refugee Day

BYLINE: Jeff Horvath, The Times-Tribune, Scranton, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 542 words


June 25--SCRANTON -- Marc NgoNgo used a boisterous Sunday picnic at Nay Aug Park
to connect with others who call the city home, some of whom were born here and
some of whom fled violence in faraway lands as refugees.

NgoNgo, 45, was born in the Democratic Republic of Congo and settled in Scranton
in 2015 after a 12-year stay in a Namibian refugee camp. He was one of hundreds
of people -- including refugees from Africa, Asia, Eastern Europe and other
areas -- who celebrated World Refugee Day in the Electric City with hot dogs,
hamburgers, music, dance, arts and crafts and more.

Officially, World Refugee Day was Wednesday.

"We are remembering where we are coming from, our situation," NgoNgo said of the
event, which was sponsored locally by Catholic Social Services of the Diocese of
Scranton. "And then it gives us a chance to get together to meet our friends,
our family, and even to meet other refugees from other countries."

Describing the government of the DRC as "evil," NgoNgo misses elements of his
native land -- "home is home," he said -- but won't consider returning until the
government there changes. That's why Sunday's celebration, where NgoNgo spent
time with other Congolese nationals, was so special, he said.

And while music echoed through the park and people from around the world ate,
danced and played together, some in attendance noted pervasive misconceptions,
often driven by bellicose political rhetoric, that make things more difficult
for refugees living in America.

"I just wanted the community to see that our refugees are good people," said
Sonya Sarner, director of refugee resettlement and immigration for Catholic
Social Services. "They are contributing for the community. They are not here to
take your job ... or go on welfare. They are here because they want (to) be
safe. They want their children safe."

While not technically refugees, Sarner said that same desire for safety
motivates many of the asylum seekers who turn up at the southern border fleeing
gangs or other violence.

Refugee resettlement numbers are down under President Donald Trump's
administration, Sarner said, noting CSS usually resettles between 150 and 200
refugees in Scranton per year, but has resettled just 14 to this point in 2018.

Some of the refugees living in the United States, including many members of
Scranton's burgeoning Bhutanese community, arrived relatively recently. Others,
like Bosnian refugees Mevlida Kasumovic, 54, and her husband, Kasim Kasumovic,
55, have been in the U.S. for more than a decade. They arrived in 2000 and 1996,
respectively, after fleeing Bosnia amid the Balkan wars of the 1990s.

The husband and wife met in Atlanta but came to Scranton because the weather
here more closely resembled that of their native Bosnia. Describing Scranton as
a nice place with nice people, Kasim Kasumovic said they enjoy World Refugee Day
because it allows them to meet people from all over the world.

"Everybody is the same," he said. "I don't care who you are. If you are good,
you are good."

Contact the writer:

jhorvath@timesshamrock.com;

570-348-9141;

@jhorvathTT on Twitter

___ (c)2018 The Times-Tribune (Scranton, Pa.) Visit The Times-Tribune (Scranton,
Pa.) at thetimes-tribune.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20180625-YT-Refugees-celebrate-America
-their-cultures-and-each-other-at-World-Refugee-Day-0625-20180625

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YT


                        Copyright 2018 The Times-Tribune


                              72 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                  The Dominion Post (Wellington, New Zealand)

                             June 23, 2018 Saturday

Pope backs refugee integration, bishops

SECTION: NEWS; INTERNATIONAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 500 words


Pope Francis urged nations to take in as many refugees as they can integrate
into their societies, but also to invest in places like Africa so migrants won't
turn to human traffickers to reach countries that can offer a better life.

Speaking to reporters on his airplane as he flew back to Rome after a visit to
Geneva, Francis also reiterated that he supports the Roman Catholic bishops in
the United States who condemned the immigration policy of separating children
from parents who enter the US illegally.

"I am behind what the bishops say," the pope said, referring to the leadership
of the US bishops conference denouncing the separations as "immoral."

On Thursday, US President Donald Trump reversed a policy of separating immigrant
children from their parents after being detained entering the United States
without permission.

Francis was asked both about the separation policy as well as Europe's struggle
with a flood of migrants rescued in the Mediterranean from human traffickers'
boats. Italy's new populist government is trying to discourage more arrivals of
rescued migrants.

He praised both Italy and Greece for being "most generous" in taking in migrants
rescued at sea, and said all governments should take in as many refugees as
their countries can handle.

"Each country must do this with the virtue of government, which is prudence, and
take in as many refugees as it can, as many as it can integrate, educate, give
jobs to," said Francis, who for years has urged nations to be more welcoming to
those fleeing war and poverty. "We are living through a flood of refugees who
are fleeing war and hunger" as well as persecution.

Francis endorsed European proposals to develop jobs and education in African
countries. Italy and some other European Union nations that have borne the brunt
of the migrant crisis have been pushing for more development aid to Africa so
poor people there won't risk their lives in the hands of traffickers in hopes of
reaching Europe and a better life.

"So many European governments are thinking of an urgent plan to intelligently
invest in those countries, to give jobs and education," Francis said with
approval.

He noted that in Latin America, including his own homeland of Argentina, many
people migrate internally, leaving the countryside for big cities, only to end
up living in shantytowns.

The pope also expressed deep dismay that migrants on smuggler boats are turned
back in Libyan waters, returning them to lawless Libya, where traffickers are
based and where desperate migrants are thrown in prisons to face torture and
other abuse.

"The traffickers' prisons are terrible, terrible, like the concentration camps
of World War II," Francis said.

Francis's trip to Geneva was aimed at promoting unity among Christians. - AP

--------------------

CAPTION:

Pope Francis waves when arriving for a Holy Mass, at the Palexpo hall, in
Geneva, during a visit for the World Council of Churches as centrepiece of the
ecumenical commemoration of the WCC's 70th anniversary. AP

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               Medicine Hat News

                             June 23, 2018 Saturday

Pope: Countries should take in as many refugees as they can

SECTION: B; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 484  words


Alessandra Tarantino

The Associated Press

Pope Francis urged nations Thursday to take in as many refugees as they can
integrate into their societies, but also to invest in places like Africa so
migrants won't turn to human traffickers to reach countries that can offer a
better life.

Speaking to reporters on his airplane as he flew back to Rome after a visit to
Geneva, Francis also reiterated that he supports the Roman Catholic bishops in
the United States who condemned the immigration policy of separating children
from parents who enter the U.S. illegally.

"I am behind what the bishops say," the pope said, referring to the leadership
of the U.S. bishops conference denouncing the separations as "immoral."

On Wednesday, U.S. President Donald Trump reversed a policy of separating
immigrant children from their parents after being detained entering the United
States without permission.

Francis was asked both about the separation policy as well as Europe's struggle
with a flood of migrants rescued in the Mediterranean from human traffickers'
boats. Italy's new populist government is trying to discourage more arrivals of
rescued migrants.

He praised both Italy and Greece for being "most generous" in taking in migrants
rescued at sea, and said all governments should take in as many refugees as
their countries can handle.

"Each country must do this with the virtue of government, which is prudence, and
take in as many refugees as it can, as many as it can integrate, educate, give
jobs to," said Francis, who for years has urged nations to be more welcoming to
those fleeing war and poverty.

"We are living through a flood of refugees who are fleeing war and hunger" as
well as persecution, Francis said.

Francis endorsed European proposals to develop jobs and education in African
countries. Italy and some other European Union nations that have borne the brunt
of the migrant crisis have been pushing for more development aid to Africa so
poor people there won't risk their lives in the hands of traffickers in hopes of
reaching Europe and a better life.

"So many European governments are thinking of an urgent plan to intelligently
invest in those countries, to give jobs and education," Francis said with
approval.

He noted that in Latin America, including his own homeland of Argentina, many
people migrate internally, leaving the countryside for big cities, only to end
up living in shantytowns.

The pope also expressed deep dismay that migrants on smuggler boats are turned
back in Libyan waters, returning them to lawless Libya, where traffickers are
based and where desperate migrants are thrown in prisons to face torture and
other abuse.

"The traffickers' prisons are terrible, terrible, like the concentration camps
of World War II," Francis said.

Francis's trip to Geneva was aimed at promoting unity among Christians,
including by concretely working together for peace and justice in the world.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2018 Medicine Hat News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         The Nelson Mail (New Zealand)

                             June 23, 2018 Saturday

Pope backs refugee integration, bishops

SECTION: NEWS; INTERNATIONAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 500 words


Pope Francis urged nations to take in as many refugees as they can integrate
into their societies, but also to invest in places like Africa so migrants won't
turn to human traffickers to reach countries that can offer a better life.

Speaking to reporters on his airplane as he flew back to Rome after a visit to
Geneva, Francis also reiterated that he supports the Roman Catholic bishops in
the United States who condemned the immigration policy of separating children
from parents who enter the US illegally.

"I am behind what the bishops say," the pope said, referring to the leadership
of the US bishops conference denouncing the separations as "immoral."

On Thursday, US President Donald Trump reversed a policy of separating immigrant
children from their parents after being detained entering the United States
without permission.

Francis was asked both about the separation policy as well as Europe's struggle
with a flood of migrants rescued in the Mediterranean from human traffickers'
boats. Italy's new populist government is trying to discourage more arrivals of
rescued migrants.

He praised both Italy and Greece for being "most generous" in taking in migrants
rescued at sea, and said all governments should take in as many refugees as
their countries can handle.

"Each country must do this with the virtue of government, which is prudence, and
take in as many refugees as it can, as many as it can integrate, educate, give
jobs to," said Francis, who for years has urged nations to be more welcoming to
those fleeing war and poverty. "We are living through a flood of refugees who
are fleeing war and hunger" as well as persecution.

Francis endorsed European proposals to develop jobs and education in African
countries. Italy and some other European Union nations that have borne the brunt
of the migrant crisis have been pushing for more development aid to Africa so
poor people there won't risk their lives in the hands of traffickers in hopes of
reaching Europe and a better life.

"So many European governments are thinking of an urgent plan to intelligently
invest in those countries, to give jobs and education," Francis said with
approval.

He noted that in Latin America, including his own homeland of Argentina, many
people migrate internally, leaving the countryside for big cities, only to end
up living in shantytowns.

The pope also expressed deep dismay that migrants on smuggler boats are turned
back in Libyan waters, returning them to lawless Libya, where traffickers are
based and where desperate migrants are thrown in prisons to face torture and
other abuse.

"The traffickers' prisons are terrible, terrible, like the concentration camps
of World War II," Francis said.

Francis's trip to Geneva was aimed at promoting unity among Christians. - AP

--------------------

CAPTION:

Pope Francis waves when arriving for a Holy Mass, at the Palexpo hall, in
Geneva, during a visit for the World Council of Churches as centrepiece of the
ecumenical commemoration of the WCC's 70th anniversary. AP

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                     The Press (Christchurch, New Zealand)

                             June 23, 2018 Saturday

Pope backs refugee integration, bishops

SECTION: NEWS; INTERNATIONAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 500 words


Pope Francis urged nations to take in as many refugees as they can integrate
into their societies, but also to invest in places like Africa so migrants won't
turn to human traffickers to reach countries that can offer a better life.

Speaking to reporters on his airplane as he flew back to Rome after a visit to
Geneva, Francis also reiterated that he supports the Roman Catholic bishops in
the United States who condemned the immigration policy of separating children
from parents who enter the US illegally.

"I am behind what the bishops say," the pope said, referring to the leadership
of the US bishops conference denouncing the separations as "immoral."

On Thursday, US President Donald Trump reversed a policy of separating immigrant
children from their parents after being detained entering the United States
without permission.

Francis was asked both about the separation policy as well as Europe's struggle
with a flood of migrants rescued in the Mediterranean from human traffickers'
boats. Italy's new populist government is trying to discourage more arrivals of
rescued migrants.

He praised both Italy and Greece for being "most generous" in taking in migrants
rescued at sea, and said all governments should take in as many refugees as
their countries can handle.

"Each country must do this with the virtue of government, which is prudence, and
take in as many refugees as it can, as many as it can integrate, educate, give
jobs to," said Francis, who for years has urged nations to be more welcoming to
those fleeing war and poverty. "We are living through a flood of refugees who
are fleeing war and hunger" as well as persecution.

Francis endorsed European proposals to develop jobs and education in African
countries. Italy and some other European Union nations that have borne the brunt
of the migrant crisis have been pushing for more development aid to Africa so
poor people there won't risk their lives in the hands of traffickers in hopes of
reaching Europe and a better life.

"So many European governments are thinking of an urgent plan to intelligently
invest in those countries, to give jobs and education," Francis said with
approval.

He noted that in Latin America, including his own homeland of Argentina, many
people migrate internally, leaving the countryside for big cities, only to end
up living in shantytowns.

The pope also expressed deep dismay that migrants on smuggler boats are turned
back in Libyan waters, returning them to lawless Libya, where traffickers are
based and where desperate migrants are thrown in prisons to face torture and
other abuse.

"The traffickers' prisons are terrible, terrible, like the concentration camps
of World War II," Francis said.

Francis's trip to Geneva was aimed at promoting unity among Christians. - AP

--------------------

CAPTION:

Pope Francis waves when arriving for a Holy Mass, at the Palexpo hall, in
Geneva, during a visit for the World Council of Churches as centrepiece of the
ecumenical commemoration of the WCC's 70th anniversary. AP

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       The Southland Times (New Zealand)

                             June 23, 2018 Saturday

Pope backs refugee integration

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 479 words


Pope Francis urged nations to take in as many refugees as they can integrate
into their societies, but also to invest in places like Africa so migrants won't
turn to human traffickers to reach countries that can offer a better life.

Speaking to reporters on his airplane as he flew back to Rome after a visit to
Geneva, Francis also reiterated that he supports the Roman Catholic bishops in
the United States who condemned the immigration policy of separating children
from parents who enter the US illegally.

"I am behind what the bishops say," the pope said, referring to the leadership
of the US bishops conference denouncing the separations as "immoral."

On Thursday, US President Donald Trump reversed a policy of separating immigrant
children from their parents after being detained entering the United States
without permission.

Francis was asked both about the separation policy as well as Europe's struggle
with a flood of migrants rescued in the Mediterranean from human traffickers'
boats. Italy's new populist government is trying to discourage more arrivals of
rescued migrants.

He praised both Italy and Greece for being "most generous" in taking in migrants
rescued at sea, and said all governments should take in as many refugees as
their countries can handle.

"Each country must do this with the virtue of government, which is prudence, and
take in as many refugees as it can, as many as it can integrate, educate, give
jobs to," said Francis, who for years has urged nations to be more welcoming to
those fleeing war and poverty. "We are living through a flood of refugees who
are fleeing war and hunger" as well as persecution.

Francis endorsed European proposals to develop jobs and education in African
countries. Italy and some other European Union nations that have borne the brunt
of the migrant crisis have been pushing for more development aid to Africa so
poor people there won't risk their lives in the hands of traffickers in hopes of
reaching Europe and a better life.

"So many European governments are thinking of an urgent plan to intelligently
invest in those countries, to give jobs and education," Francis said with
approval.

He noted that in Latin America, including his own homeland of Argentina, many
people migrate internally, leaving the countryside for big cities, only to end
up living in shantytowns.

The pope also expressed deep dismay that migrants on smuggler boats are turned
back in Libyan waters, returning them to lawless Libya, where traffickers are
based and where desperate migrants are thrown in prisons to face torture and
other abuse.

"The traffickers' prisons are terrible, terrible, like the concentration camps
of World War II," Francis said.

Francis' trip to Geneva was aimed at promoting unity among Christians. - AP

--------------------

CAPTION:

Pope Francis waves when arriving for a Holy Mass, at the Palexpo hall, in
Geneva. AP

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       Taranaki Daily News (New Zealand)

                             June 23, 2018 Saturday

Pope backs refugee integration

SECTION: NEWS; INTERNATIONAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 500 words


Pope Francis urged nations to take in as many refugees as they can integrate
into their societies, but also to invest in places like Africa so migrants won't
turn to human traffickers to reach countries that can offer a better life.

Speaking to reporters on his airplane as he flew back to Rome after a visit to
Geneva, Francis also reiterated that he supports the Roman Catholic bishops in
the United States who condemned the immigration policy of separating children
from parents who enter the US illegally.

"I am behind what the bishops say," the pope said, referring to the leadership
of the US bishops conference denouncing the separations as "immoral."

On Thursday, US President Donald Trump reversed a policy of separating immigrant
children from their parents after being detained entering the United States
without permission.

Francis was asked both about the separation policy as well as Europe's struggle
with a flood of migrants rescued in the Mediterranean from human traffickers'
boats. Italy's new populist government is trying to discourage more arrivals of
rescued migrants.

He praised both Italy and Greece for being "most generous" in taking in migrants
rescued at sea, and said all governments should take in as many refugees as
their countries can handle.

"Each country must do this with the virtue of government, which is prudence, and
take in as many refugees as it can, as many as it can integrate, educate, give
jobs to," said Francis, who for years has urged nations to be more welcoming to
those fleeing war and poverty. "We are living through a flood of refugees who
are fleeing war and hunger" as well as persecution.

Francis endorsed European proposals to develop jobs and education in African
countries. Italy and some other European Union nations that have borne the brunt
of the migrant crisis have been pushing for more development aid to Africa so
poor people there won't risk their lives in the hands of traffickers in hopes of
reaching Europe and a better life.

"So many European governments are thinking of an urgent plan to intelligently
invest in those countries, to give jobs and education," Francis said with
approval.

He noted that in Latin America, including his own homeland of Argentina, many
people migrate internally, leaving the countryside for big cities, only to end
up living in shantytowns.

The pope also expressed deep dismay that migrants on smuggler boats are turned
back in Libyan waters, returning them to lawless Libya, where traffickers are
based and where desperate migrants are thrown in prisons to face torture and
other abuse.

"The traffickers' prisons are terrible, terrible, like the concentration camps
of World War II," Francis said.

Francis's trip to Geneva was aimed at promoting unity among Christians. - AP

--------------------

CAPTION:

Pope Francis waves when arriving for a Holy Mass, at the Palexpo hall, in
Geneva, during a visit for the World Council of Churches as centrepiece of the
ecumenical commemoration of the WCC's 70th anniversary. AP

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                     Waikato Times (Hamilton, New Zealand)

                             June 23, 2018 Saturday

Pope backs refugee integration, bishops

SECTION: NEWS; INTERNATIONAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 500 words


Pope Francis urged nations to take in as many refugees as they can integrate
into their societies, but also to invest in places like Africa so migrants won't
turn to human traffickers to reach countries that can offer a better life.

Speaking to reporters on his airplane as he flew back to Rome after a visit to
Geneva, Francis also reiterated that he supports the Roman Catholic bishops in
the United States who condemned the immigration policy of separating children
from parents who enter the US illegally.

"I am behind what the bishops say," the pope said, referring to the leadership
of the US bishops conference denouncing the separations as "immoral."

On Thursday, US President Donald Trump reversed a policy of separating immigrant
children from their parents after being detained entering the United States
without permission.

Francis was asked both about the separation policy as well as Europe's struggle
with a flood of migrants rescued in the Mediterranean from human traffickers'
boats. Italy's new populist government is trying to discourage more arrivals of
rescued migrants.

He praised both Italy and Greece for being "most generous" in taking in migrants
rescued at sea, and said all governments should take in as many refugees as
their countries can handle.

"Each country must do this with the virtue of government, which is prudence, and
take in as many refugees as it can, as many as it can integrate, educate, give
jobs to," said Francis, who for years has urged nations to be more welcoming to
those fleeing war and poverty. "We are living through a flood of refugees who
are fleeing war and hunger" as well as persecution.

Francis endorsed European proposals to develop jobs and education in African
countries. Italy and some other European Union nations that have borne the brunt
of the migrant crisis have been pushing for more development aid to Africa so
poor people there won't risk their lives in the hands of traffickers in hopes of
reaching Europe and a better life.

"So many European governments are thinking of an urgent plan to intelligently
invest in those countries, to give jobs and education," Francis said with
approval.

He noted that in Latin America, including his own homeland of Argentina, many
people migrate internally, leaving the countryside for big cities, only to end
up living in shantytowns.

The pope also expressed deep dismay that migrants on smuggler boats are turned
back in Libyan waters, returning them to lawless Libya, where traffickers are
based and where desperate migrants are thrown in prisons to face torture and
other abuse.

"The traffickers' prisons are terrible, terrible, like the concentration camps
of World War II," Francis said.

Francis's trip to Geneva was aimed at promoting unity among Christians. - AP

--------------------

CAPTION:

Pope Francis waves when arriving for a Holy Mass, at the Palexpo hall, in
Geneva, during a visit for the World Council of Churches as centrepiece of the
ecumenical commemoration of the WCC's 70th anniversary. AP

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                             June 21, 2018 Thursday

Countries should take in as many refugees as they can, Pope Francis says

BYLINE: Alessandra Tarantino | The Associated Press

LENGTH: 475 words


Aboard the papal plane o Pope Francis urged nations Thursday to take in as many
refugees as they can integrate into their societies and to invest in places like
Africa so migrants won't turn to human traffickers to reach countries that can
offer a better life.

Speaking to reporters on his airplane as he flew back to Rome after a visit to
Geneva, Francis also reiterated that he supports the Roman Catholic bishops in
the United States who condemned the immigration policy of separating children
from parents who enter the U.S. illegally.

"I am behind what the bishops say," the pope said, referring to the leadership
of the U.S. bishops conference denouncing the separations as ''immoral."

On Wednesday, U.S. President Donald Trump reversed a policy of separating
immigrant children from their parents after being detained entering the United
States without permission.

Francis was asked both about the separation policy as well as Europe's struggle
with a flood of migrants rescued in the Mediterranean from human traffickers'
boats. Italy's new populist government is trying to discourage more arrivals of
rescued migrants.

He praised Italy and Greece for being "most generous" in taking in migrants
rescued at sea and said all governments should take in as many refugees as their
countries can handle.

"Each country must do this with the virtue of government, which is prudence, and
take in as many refugees as it can, as many as it can integrate, educate, give
jobs to," said Francis, who for years has urged nations to be more welcoming to
those fleeing war and poverty. "We are living through a flood of refugees who
are fleeing war and hunger" as well as persecution,

Francis endorsed European proposals to develop jobs and education in African
countries. Italy and some other European Union nations that have borne the brunt
of the migrant crisis have been pushing for more development aid to Africa so
poor people there won't risk their lives in the hands of traffickers in hopes of
reaching Europe and a better life.

"So many European governments are thinking of an urgent plan to intelligently
invest in those countries, to give jobs and education," Francis said.

He noted that in Latin America, including his own homeland of Argentina, many
people migrate internally, leaving the countryside for big cities, only to end
up living in shantytowns.

The pope also expressed deep dismay that migrants on smuggler boats are turned
back in Libyan waters, returning them to lawless Libya, where traffickers are
based and where desperate migrants are thrown in prisons to face torture and
other abuse.

"The traffickers' prisons are terrible, terrible, like the concentration camps
of World War II," Francis said.

Francis' trip to Geneva was aimed at promoting unity among Christians, including
by concretely working together for peace and justice in the world.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       June 20, 2018 Wednesday 11:02 EST

A Play About Refugee Camps Is Coming. With Refugees in the Cast.

BYLINE: Andrew R. Chow

SECTION: THEATER

LENGTH: 366 words



HIGHLIGHT: "The Jungle" was written by two British playwrights who spent time at
a refugee camp in France, and the cast includes refugees who lived there.


As debates about the treatment of migrant families rage in the United States, a
play coming to New York hopes to illuminate the plight of refugees across the
Atlantic.

"The Jungle," a play by two men who spent time in a camp in Northern France with
refugees from Africa and the Middle East, will arrive at St. Ann's Warehouse on
Dec. 4. The show received rave reviews when it ran in London last December.

The play was written by Joe Murphy and Joe Robertson, two Englishmen who
traveled to the Calais Jungle, a tattered French migrant camp, to help its
residents. They lived there and raised money to start a theater in a geodesic
dome tent, which they named Good Chance. The theater hosted performances in
music, kung fu and dance before it was forcibly taken down by the French
authorities in March 2016.

The pair turned their experiences into "The Jungle," which ran at the Young Vic
with a cast that included three former camp residents. The show depicts a grim
and chaotic year at the camp and explores whether volunteer intervention
actually made a positive impact. "This devastating, uplifting show is beady-eyed
even as it celebrates the human capacity to build something out of nothing," The
Guardian said in its review.

Stephen Daldry and Justin Martin will stay on to direct the play in New York.
And the cast will include actors from Afghanistan, Lebanon, Morocco, Sudan and
Syria; several former refugees from the Calais Jungle will perform, including
the drummer and singer Mohamed Sarrar.

The cast's diverse background means that the production will have to go to extra
lengths to get its performers to New York, in part because of travel bans
instituted by the Trump administration.

"We are in visa process now, which, in the current environment, is obviously
challenging," Susan Feldman, the artistic director of St. Ann's Warehouse, said
in a statement. "But we're up to the challenge; it's one of the reasons it's
important to bring this work to America."

Tickets go on sale July 25.

PHOTO: John Pfumojena, center, in "The Jungle" at the Young Vic in London in
2017. (PHOTOGRAPH BY David Sandison FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    The Journey From the Calais Jungle to the London Stage


LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2018 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                               Al-Arab (English)

                                 June 10, 2018

US report warns against 'destabilisation' of Arab countries by refugee crisis

BYLINE: Thomas Frank

LENGTH: 881  words


The report warned about potential instability in Egypt, Jordan and Lebanon and
called for the US and other affluent countries to accept more refugees.

Uncertain future. A Syrian refugee child plays at the Al Zaatari refugee camp in
the Jordanian city of Mafraq. (Reuters)

The report warned about potential instability in Egypt, Jordan and Lebanon and
called for the US and other affluent countries to accept more refugees.

T h e

A r a b

W e e k l y

The Arab Weekly

WASHINTON - Several Arab countries could "descend into chaos" in the next decade
if they are forced to absorb increasing numbers of refugees from Syria and
elsewhere, a report from a US think-tank stated.

The report warned about potential instability in Egypt, Jordan and Lebanon --
all US allies -- and called for the United States and other affluent countries
to accept more refugees and asylum seekers and to give more money and aid to
countries that are being flooded by displaced people.

"The populations of places like Lebanon, Jordan and Egypt are growing rapidly
but their economies are not keeping pace," stated the report, written by experts
and former US government officials for the Centre for Strategic and
International Studies (CSIS). "These issues, when coupled with an influx of
large numbers of Syrians escaping conflict, could eventually result in collapse
and further regional destabilisation."

Mary Beth Long, who helped write the report, said Jordan was particularly
vulnerable because it is home to so many immigrants and displaced people,
including hundreds of thousands who fled war in neighbouring Syria.

"Jordan is truly imperilled by its immigration problem and by migrants from
Syria and other places. If Jordan falls or becomes imperilled, that will become
a direct threat to the United States and Israel," said Long, a former assistant
secretary in charge of international security affairs at the US Defence
Department.

Long spoke May 29 when CSIS released the report, which addresses the "crisis" of
refugees, asylum seekers and displaced people around the world.

The report warned about Lebanon, which is home to 1.2 million Syrian refugees in
addition to hundreds of thousands of Palestinians and Iraqi refugees. Noting
that the country of 6 million people faces high unemployment and a tottering
economy, the report said: "The future could feasibly spell collapse for
Lebanon."

In Lebanon, refugees make up a larger share of the population than in any other
country in the world, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees said. Jordan and
Turkey are in second and third place on that list.

The report warned about a global crisis of refugees and displaced people and
came as many European countries restricted border crossings by people fleeing
conditions in the Middle East and Africa. The United States and President Donald
Trump have come under criticism for reducing refugee admissions to their lowest
point in years.

The Trump administration capped refugee admissions at 45,000 for the fiscal year
that ends September 30. That includes a maximum of 17,500 refugees from the
region stretching from Algeria to India. Both of those numbers are about half of
what they had been since 2000.

From November 1, 2017, through April 30, 2018, the United States admitted 11
refugees from Syria, US State Department records show. In the 2016-17 fiscal
year, the United States admitted 12,587 Syrian refugees, the State Department
said.

The US restrictions exacerbate the crisis of refugees and displaced people, the
report said.

"Countries have said, well, you're not taking the initiative, so why should we?"
said Tom Ridge, who was Homeland Security secretary under US President George W.
Bush and led the team that wrote the CSIS report. "America needs to lead on
issues like this. When we elect our president and Congress, we focus a lot on
domestic issues but since [the second world war], the rest of the world has
looked to American leadership."

There are 66 million refugees and displaced people -- the highest number since
the second world war -- and the number could grow to 320 million by 2030, the
report said.

Gayle Smith, who led the task force with Ridge and was head of the US Agency for
International Development under US President Barack Obama, said the United
States needed to spend more helping other countries develop and on international
diplomacy to resolve disputes that force people to flee. "I fear a world in
which we turn our backs on the world's most disenfranchised," Smith said.

Asked about the backlash in the United States and Europe against refugees, Ridge
was critical of political leaders he did not name.

"In certain countries, certain elected officials have made the notion of forced
migrants, refugees, immigration a political issue and around that political
issue they've tried to generate fear. It's mythical," Ridge said.

Ridge implicitly criticised Trump, who has sought to expand a wall separating
the United States and Mexico and to restrict travel to the United States by
people from Syria, Iran, Lebanon, Yemen and Somalia.

"This whole notion that these men and women and children [fleeing their
countries] are just writ large terrorists -- it's just false," Ridge said. "It's
the worst kind of fearmongering going and it's unworthy of the United States of
America."

Alarab Online.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 172


                         Copyright 2018 Alarab Online.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                   Philly.com

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             June 9, 2018 Saturday

History repeats: When America turned away refugees

BYLINE: Jeff Gammage, Philly.com

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 803 words


June 09--Ronnie Breslow was close enough to the United States to see the shining
city lights.  But her entry into the country was blocked, and she was forced
back to a troubled and dangerous land.

It wasn't this year. And it wasn't at a Southwest American border awash in fear
and conflict, as the Trump administration enforces a "zero tolerance" policy
toward migrants.

It was 1939, and Breslow, of Elkins Park, was an 8-year-old passenger aboard the
St. Louis, the ship of 937 Jewish refugees that in flight from Nazi Germany was
infamously turned away by the U.S., Canada, and Cuba. More than 250 of the
passengers would die in the Holocaust after the ship returned to Europe.

"I see history repeating itself," Breslow said last week.

Breslow, now 88, spoke at the National Museum of American Jewish History on
Independence Mall at what is again a precarious moment. The world is
experiencing the worst refugee crisis since World War II, with 22.5 million
people forced from their countries, half of them under age 18. The U.S. is
poised to admit the lowest number of refugees in decades.

Refugees from Europe, Asia, Africa and Latin America await a chance to come to
this country. Meanwhile, families from Mexico, Honduras and Guatemala trek north
to escape drug violence, gangs and poverty.

In 1938, after the wave of violence across Germany and Austria during
Kristallnacht, the "Night of Broken Glass," Jews became desperate to escape the
Nazis.

Breslow's father wrote to every overseas relative he knew, and heard back from a
distant cousin in Philadelphia. Passports and ship tickets grew precious.
Breslow's family managed to wangle one ticket to Cuba and decided the father
should go first. She and her mother would follow, then all three would travel to
America.

The liner departed Hamburg on May 13, 1939. For a child, the trip across the
Atlantic was a grand adventure.

Mother and daughter believed all would be well, because they had legal "landing
certificates" to admit them to Cuba. But the island nation, like the U.S., was
still suffering from the Great Depression. Many people saw foreign refugees as
competition for scarce jobs. Anti-Semitism was rife.

In the 1920s, the U.S. had set a strict numerical limit on immigration, about
350,000, then cut that number to 165,000. Quotas were placed on sending European
nations.

When the St. Louis arrived at Havana on May 27, Breslow said, her father
appeared in the harbor in a tiny rowboat, waving his arms in greeting.

Her father's embrace, safety, was so close.

But the passengers weren't allowed off. Day after day, Breslow asked her mother
when they would leave the ship. The answer was always, "Tomorrow."

In fact, Cuba had invalidated the landing certificates. Only 28 passengers who
held other papers were admitted, according to the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum
in Washington.

On June 2, the ship was ordered out of Cuba, and moved slowly toward Miami. The
passengers stared at the lights of Miami Beach, Breslow said.

Capt. Gustav Schroeder pleaded with authorities for help. He was determined not
to return to Germany, knowing that meant death for his passengers.

People aboard sent telegrams to President Franklin D. Roosevelt, asking for
refuge. He did not reply. With public opinion opposed to additional immigration,
he decided to take no special measures to assist those aboard the St. Louis.

"The president would not allow us into the United States," Breslow said. "Nobody
apparently cared enough to help us."

For 2018, Trump capped refugee admissions at 45,000, the lowest figure since
Congress created the current refugee program in 1980, and less than half the
110,000 set by President Barack Obama in 2016.

Because of slow processing, said Cathryn Miller-Wilson, executive director of
the immigrant-advocacy group HIAS Pennsylvania, probably only 22,000 will
actually be admitted to the U.S.

Many people approve of that: Forty-three percent of Americans say the United
States has no responsibility to accept refugees; 51 percent say it does,
according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in April and May.

After leaving Cuba, the St. Louis circled in the Atlantic. In June, following
negotiations with Jewish relief agencies, England, the Netherlands, Belgium and
France agreed to take the refugees. Those havens would later turn out to be no
havens at all when the Nazis invaded and controlled all but England.

Breslow and her mother made their way from Holland to the U.S., reconnecting
with the father in New York. Much of her family "was never able to get out of
Germany in time, and were murdered," she said.

"I caution all of us, with the turbulence around today, we have to remain
vigilant, so we don't lose this precious gift called freedom."

___ (c)2018 Philly.com Visit Philly.com at www.philly.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20180609-PHI-History-repeats-When-America-turned-away-refugees
-0609-20180609

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PHI


                                 Copyright 2018


                              83 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                               The Saudi Gazette

                              June 5, 2018 Tuesday

The migrant myth

LENGTH: 586  words


EUROPEAN xenophobes regularly complain that too many of the migrants who have
arrived are not genuine refugees and therefore are not entitled to stay. In
Hungary, Poland, Austria, Italy and now Slovenia, voters have been persuaded to
elect governments dedicated to sending these economic migrants home. The new
Italian right-wing coalition between the Five Star Movement and the League is
already trying to start a program to repatriate migrants, especially from
sub-Saharan Africa who have no grounds to claim political asylum.



League leader Matteo Salvini, the coalition's interior minister was in Sicily on
Sunday where he said the mass repatriation was hard but made common sense. He
also said that by stopping the island of Sicily from being "the refugee camp of
Europe" he would stop the people smugglers from sending more refugees on the
too-often deadly crossing of the Mediterranean and thereby save lives.

This seemingly plausible argument however is plain wrong. The United States
became the world's greatest power on the back of mass economic migration. It had
originally built its wealth to a significant degree through the use of black
slaves and did not abolish this loathsome institution until 1863, two years
after Russia had abandoned slavery. But unlike serfdom in Russia, in America
slaves had generally been confined to agricultural labor. America became a
superpower thanks to its immigrants who gathered in the great Eastern seaboard
cities before heading to the West to dispossess native Americans of vast tracts
of land which they then mined and worked to create the foundations of the
present vibrant US economy. A similar surge in free-wheeling capitalist economic
growth occurred in the last 20 years of Russia's tzars. However after the 1917
Communist takeover, this expansion was stultified with the introduction of
central planning in a society overseen by brutal secret policemen. Russia has
yet the recover that can-do spirit which transformed America.

Europe has a complacent, wealthy, socially featherbedded population while the
birthrate is plummeting. More importantly Europeans are aging and also living
longer. In Spain for instance, two people died for every new baby born. This
means that the working population, those who generate wealth and pay taxes is
becoming ever smaller. The continent needs migrants. It desperately needs fresh
blood. Therefore European politicians who wrap themselves in the nationalist
flag and frighten voters into supporting them for fear of being "swamped" by
migrants are plain wrong. Far from clamping down on new arrivals, governments
ought to be actually encouraging because the continent really needs them. But
then of course the majority of politicians riding to power on an anti-migrant
ticket are not really concerned about their countries' economic futures. They
are racists with ludicrous concepts of the assumed purity of white skins. Their
worldview is taken straight out of the Aryan playbook of Hitler's despicable and
murderous Nazi regime. If the migrants were white and better still, nominally
Christian, they would be welcomed with open arms. But of course, those trying to
find a safer and better life in Europe are not white. They are blacks, Asians
and Arabs and many of them are also Muslims. In their attempt to stem this
beneficial tide of humanity, racist parties are not trying to protect jobs.
These xenophobes are nothing but odious racists and Islamophobes, motivated
purely by hatred.


© Copyright 2018 The Saudi Gazette.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1526


                       Copyright 2018 The Saudi Gazette.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                              Owen Sound Sun Times

                              June 4, 2018 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Nigerian refugees coming into Canada fleeing murderous northern herdsman: Asylum
seeker

BYLINE: Giuseppe Valiante, The Canadian Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 488  words

DATELINE: MONTREAL


Eric, an asylum seeker from southern Nigeria, crossed illegally into Quebec last
February from the United States after leaving Africa to escape the threat of
armed herdsmen.

He says the herdsmen from the north of the country threaten southern farmers and
sometimes murder them.

"A lot of killing has been going on," he said during a break from
French-language classes he is taking in Montreal.

The 35-year-old didn't want to use his real name out of fear it could negatively
affect his hearing at the Immigration and Refugee Board of Canada.

"The herdsmen go to the community and they can slaughter as many civilians as
they want," he said. "We don't know who is sponsoring them and the government
isn't doing anything about it."

Eric is one of 7,612 people who crossed illegally into the country during the
first four months of the year, with 96 per cent of them entering Quebec,
primarily through Roxham Road, a paved clearing at the forested border In 2017,
thousands of Haitians fled the United States for Montreal, but Nigerians make up
a large number of would-be refugees crossing into Quebec this year, according to
authorities and community organizers.

The increasing number of asylum seekers from Nigeria - who mostly speak English
instead of French - is helping to make immigration a top issue ahead of
October's provincial election.

Both of the major opposition parties - the Parti Quebecois and the Coalition
Avenir Quebec - argue the governing Liberals have failed to properly integrate
newcomers by, among other things, not ensuring they learn French.

The Coalition wants to decrease immigration to the province by 10,000 people a
year while the PQ has called for a full review of Quebec's immigration policies.

Opposition parties speak of high unemployment rates among immigrants and cite
statistics that indicate only a third of newcomers register for free French
courses and a third of those abandon their studies or just never show up.

Anait Aleksanian, head of a community centre that offers free,
government-subsidized French courses for immigrants, says a lack of resources is
not the problem.

"It's never happened that we ask the (government) - that we tell them we have
registrations for French courses and we are told the money isn't there," she
said.

Immigrants can take courses in the morning, at night, on the weekend and even at
work, she said.

"We need to raise awareness and explain that if you want to integrate, you need
to take the French courses," she added.

Premier Philippe Couillard says he's been told the majority of the recent asylum
seekers who have crossed illegally into Quebec don't want to stay in the
province, but would prefer to move to more English-speaking parts of the
country.

"The federal government has to help people move where they want to settle,"
Couillard said. "They need to also quicken the pace of treating asylum claims.
!@COPYRIGHT=© 2018 Osprey Media Group Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Getty Images Files; Civil rights movement called Our Mumu Don Do march
and carry a banner to protest bloody clashes between herdsmen and farmers in the
vast central region of Nigeria that has claimed dozens of lives during a rally
in Abuja, on March 14.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 Owen Sound Sun Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Anniston Star (Alabama)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              June 1, 2018 Friday

EDITORIAL: White evangelicals and refugees

BYLINE: The Anniston Star, Ala.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 573 words


June 01--Fifteen months ago, more than 100 evangelical pastors and leaders
signed a letter urging President Trump to change his tune on the resettlement of
foreign refugees in the United States. Trump had been president a month. The
letter, first appearing as a full-page ad in The Washington Post, attracted more
signatories as concern grew over Trump's policy.

"As Christian pastors and leaders," they wrote, "we are deeply concerned by the
recently announced moratorium on refugee resettlement ... We have a historic
call expressed over 2,000 years to serve the suffering. We cannot abandon this
call now."

By and large, the letter fell on deaf ears.

Trump has demonized refugees and other people based on nationality, race and
religion during his first year and a half in the White House. This January, he
called for more immigration from places like Norway -- a predominantly white
nation -- instead of Haiti and Africa. He lumps all non-white immigrants in with
the violent MS-13 gang that originated in Los Angeles. When some Puerto Ricans
faulted his administration's response to Hurricane Maria -- which killed more
than 4,000 people, according to a Harvard study released this week -- he called
them "politically motivated ingrates." And contrast that with his comment that
some of the white supremacists who marched last year in Charlottesville, Va.,
were "very fine people."

Today, the Trump administration is under intense criticism for its inhumane
policy of separating Central American children from their parents if they cross
the border illegally. This week, The New York Times reported that "(I)t's not
clear what has happened to the children that have been separated from their
parents since October." The number of refugee children held without their
parents in U.S. custody has risen 21 percent in the last month.

And, yet, a growing majority of America's white evangelicals -- the very
Americans many of those aforementioned clergy members counsel each week -- do
not believe the United States, a nation built on immigration, has a
responsibility to assist refugees. This dastardly trait of Trumpism, who
discounts benevolence and America's soft-power successes, is seeping into the
pews of America's most conservative congregations.

New polling from the Pew Research Center details the disturbing trend. Of all
the demographic groups researchers studied -- Republicans, Democrats, whites,
blacks, Hispanics, the college-educated and those with no degree, the religious
and the unbelievers -- no one was less supportive of American assistance for
refugees than white evangelicals.

Only 25 percent of white evangelicals, and just 26 percent of Republicans, said
the United States had a responsibility to assist refugees. For them, it's not
enough that U.S. resettlement numbers are already at historic lows. Even white
mainline protestants, at 43 percent, were far more supportive of refugee
resettlement than their evangelical brethren.

We'll let clergy and theologians cherry-pick biblical verses that illustrate the
Godly stance of helping strangers in need. That's their role. But there's
trouble in America when some of those who clutch the Bible so close to their
breast find it easy to turn away decent people because of a disgraceful and
inhumane presidential policy.

___ (c)2018 The Anniston Star (Anniston, Ala.) Visit The Anniston Star
(Anniston, Ala.) at www.annistonstar.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20180601-AO-EDITORIAL-White-evangelicals-and-refugees-0601-20180601

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AO


                        Copyright 2018 The Anniston Star


                              86 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                               May 4, 2018 Friday

What is our moral obligation to our refugees?

BYLINE: Mary Doetsch For the Deseret News

LENGTH: 696 words


By Mary Doetsch

In reply to the recent Deseret News article from April 26, "Does America have a
moral obligation to resettle refugee?" I pose a question of my own: Does the
U.S. government have a moral obligation to ensure the integrity of its refugee
resettlement program? Unlike the unconvincing responses in the original article,
the answer to the latter question is an unequivocal "yes."

Since the beginning of modern refugee resettlement, the United States has done
more than its fair share, leading the world in refugee assistance and annually
resettling more than all other countries combined. Since 1975, more than 3
million refugees have been permanently resettled in the United States. Given
this extensive involvement, does not the so-called "moral obligation" extend to
United States citizens and taxpayers to ensure the program is free from fraud,
and that the individuals who are allowed into the country via the United States
Refugee Admissions Program actually meet the definition of a refugee?

For decades, rampant fraud has permeated the admissions program, yet little heed
has been paid to the abuse. As a former refugee coordinator who served
throughout the Middle East, Africa, Russia and Cuba, I saw firsthand the
flagrant abuses and scams that infect the refugee program. I witnessed
widespread exploitation and misuse ranging from identity fraud to marriage and
family relation scams. It even extended to private individuals profiting from
their involvement in the United States Refugee Admissions Program to distortion
of the actual refugee definition to ensure greater numbers of people who are
simply migrants are admitted as refugees.

As early as the 1990s, fraudulent refugee claims were commonplace in the
still-operating United States refugee program in Cuba and among the tens of
thousands of Somalis who entered the United States in the early 2000s under
false identities. Especially disturbing is the fact that in the case of the
Somali fraud, none of the individuals have ever been prosecuted or deported,
despite violating federal law and scamming the refugee program. Of note, Somalia
is one the five countries named in the president's travel ban, which seeks to
bar entry into the United States of nationals from countries that pose a threat
to national security.

Remarkably, this type of systemic fraud in the refugee admissions program has
been regularly overlooked or willfully ignored. During my own time working in
this program, I watched the program continue to expand unchecked, seemingly
without concern for whether it served the best interests of its own citizens or
the country.

The current United States Citizenship and Immigration Services investigation
into Burmese refugees who entered the United States using false identities is
just another recent example of the program's rampant fraud. In this case, as
many as 1,700 individuals may have either falsified their own data or whose
personal information was used by someone else to gain fraudulent entry into the
country.

I'm not opposed to refugees. In fact, I became a refugee coordinator because I
wanted to help and support persecuted persons in legitimate need of
international protection. However, the pervasive fraud I saw during my eight
years in the field was alarming. Undoubtedly, many individuals who work within
the refugee field have humanitarian aims; however, refugee resettlement has
morphed into an industry - a money-making, numbers-driven, financially motivated
business, growing blindly at the expense of the American public and our national
security. The contractors, who are paid by the federal government to implement
the program, have a vested interest in processing ever-larger numbers of
applicants, since they make money on every refugee settled.

Until the federal government can guarantee that the United States Refugee
Admissions Program has been reformed and the widespread fraud eliminated, the
"morality" question of resettling refugees should be moot.

Mary Doetsch, a recently retired 25-year veteran of the U.S. State Department,
has served as a refugee coordinator for almost eight years throughout the Middle
East, Africa, Russia and Cuba.

comment

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2018 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                              87 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 1, 2018 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

A Refugee Caravan is Hoping for Asylum in the U.S. How Are These Cases Decided?

BYLINE: By MIRIAM JORDAN; Alain Delaqueriere contributed research.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1780 words


Russian ballet dancers, Cuban baseball players and Chinese political dissidents.
These are the kind of people fleeing persecution in their homelands who
typically won asylum in the United States over the years.

In many cases, they were in the country for a theatrical performance, a
conference or a sports tournament, then sought refuge. Think Martina
Navratilova, the Czech tennis player, who defected during the 1975 U.S. Open.

Over the past five years, though, the number of asylum applications has
skyrocketed. Civil wars in Africa, gang violence in Central America and
government crackdowns in China have contributed to a backlog of hundreds of
thousands of cases and processing times of up to six years. This presents a
range of challenges to U.S. authorities, who are required under international
law to give all of the cases careful consideration.

This week, a caravan of 150 to 200 migrants, mainly from Honduras, Guatemala and
El Salvador, is waiting at the Mexican border in Tijuana to claim asylum, hoping
to win permission to stay in the United States. But President Trump has urged
his administration to redouble its efforts to enforce border laws, referring to
the caravan over the weekend as ''that mess,'' and declaring, ''We have the
worst laws anywhere in the world, we don't have borders.''

Here's a look at how we got here, and what America's legal obligations are.

What is the legal backdrop?

The international agreement to protect asylum seekers emerged after the horrific
events of World War II. The United Nations signed the refugee convention in
1951, which the United States ratified and incorporated into law in 1980.

The goal is to provide a safe haven for those who can prove they are fleeing
persecution in their homeland.

What's the difference between a refugee and an asylum-seeker?

There are two ways people can win protection and the right to live permanently
in the United States. In both cases they must prove the same well-founded fear
of persecution on account of race, religion, nationality, political opinion or
membership in a particular social group.

People who apply and are selected overseas eventually enter the United States as
refugees.

Many of them, hundreds of thousands, remain parked in camps as the refugee
application process unfolds, typically over several years. That process involves
several interviews with United Nations and American officials. The United States
also conducts several layers of security screening.

People already on United States soil apply for asylum.

Alexander Godunov, a principal dancer with the renowned Bolshoi Ballet, was
granted asylum in the United States in 1979. He was the first of several dancers
to defect from the Bolshoi during that year's tour in the United States. He
requested asylum in New York City and received it immediately. Ms. Navratilova
received asylum in October 1975, a month after filing for it.

During the 1980s, civil war in El Salvador displaced several hundred thousand
people. Tens of thousands flocked to the United States and applied for political
asylum.

Nowadays, the process of applying for asylum often takes years to complete, from
start to finish. It involves interviews with United States immigration officials
and often with immigration judges.

Whether people entered the country legally or not, they are eligible to apply
for asylum.

The surge

The world is suffering the worst refugee crisis since World War II. There are
now a staggering number of refugees, asylum-seekers and displaced people --
about 50 million.

Violence around the globe is pushing desperate people to seek safety across
international borders. People from the Middle East and Africa are taking rickety
boats and making treacherous treks to reach Europe. They are less likely to show
up at the southwest border of the United States than people from Latin America
who are, relatively speaking, nearby and can come over land.

In recent years, violence in Central America -- it has some of the highest
murder rates in the world -- has prompted tens of thousands of people since 2014
to make the perilous journey to the United States.

The migrants either turn themselves in at the border to American authorities or
sneak into the country illegally. Regardless, they then declare that they are
seeking asylum.

Before 2011, only 1 percent of all arriving foreigners requested asylum. Today,
one out of 10 apply, according to government officials.

The caravan

Jeff Sessions, the United States Attorney General, called the caravan now
awaiting processing at the San Ysidro port of entry a ''deliberate attempt to
undermine our laws and overwhelm our system.''

''There is no right to demand entry without justification,'' he said, adding
that he would deploy prosecutors to handle cases.

Indeed, there are signs that the administration is seeking to disqualify certain
applicants, such as victims of domestic violence, who have sometimes won asylum.
Recently, Mr. Sessions suggested they should not be eligible.

Yet the law does require authorities to accept and consider their petitions.

Once they are processed at the port of entry, they are likely to be transferred
to a detention facility where they must pass the first step in the asylum
process, a ''credible-fear'' interview with an officer of the United States
Immigration and Citizenship Services.

The number of credible-fear interviews conducted by the federal agency has
soared from 5,000 in 2007 to 80,000 last year.

More than three quarters of those interviewed pass that screening and are
referred to an immigration judge for hearings that may span months or longer.
(Those who fail the interview can be deported immediately.)

Asylum applicants awaiting a hearing before a judge either remain in detention
or are released wearing a tracking device, such as an ankle monitor, with a date
to appear in court.

Many Central Americans stay with friends and relatives who already live in the
United States. Once 180 days have passed after filing of their application, they
are eligible to work in the United States. Their children attend public schools.

Because some migrants in the past have skipped their court hearings, Mr. Trump
has criticized the practice of releasing migrants, describing it as ''catch and
release.'' In recent months, his administration has ordered border officers to,
when possible, keep these migrants in detention, rather than release them.

''While these asylum seekers are, on paper, eligible for consideration for
release on parole, in reality ICE holds them in detention for long periods of
time,'' said Eleanor Acer, director of refugee protection for Human Rights
First.

United States officials say the administration is trying to figure out how to
deal with the surge in asylum applications in a manner that is consistent with
its international obligations.

Part of the problem is that immigration courts are clogged, and not just with
asylum cases.

At of the end of March, there were 692,298 cases in the backlog, according to
Syracuse University's Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse, which tracks
the trends. The average wait time for current pending cases was 718 days, or
nearly two years.

Are their claims legitimate?

Central Americans who apply for asylum often have been threatened with death or
suffered attacks at the hands of gangs. Often mothers flee to protect their
children from recruitment.

''We have seen firsthand the extraordinarily violent conditions in the Northern
Triangle of Central America that forces families and children to flee their
homes in search of urgently needed safety in the U.S.,'' said Jennifer Sime,
senior vice president of United States programs at the International Rescue
Committee.

''Those who qualify and are fleeing violence, who have no other route to
protection, should be granted safety and asylum,'' she said.

Immigrant advocates say their circumstances are akin to those faced by people
escaping war in Syria or Somalia. However, it is more difficult for Central
Americans to win their cases.

''A huge percentage of these people get deported,'' said Marty Rosenbluth, an
immigration attorney. ''It's a really difficult struggle to win asylum.''

Mr. Rosenbluth said that all of his asylum cases based on gang violence have
failed because his clients could not establish that they fit into a social group
suffering particular persecution to qualify.

In some cases, judges have found that applicants fabricated or exaggerated their
claims, though that is not usually the case.

Immigration court records show that more asylum cases were denied over the
previous five years than have been granted. In fiscal year 2016, 62 percent of
asylum cases were denied, compared with 44.5 percent five years earlier. Among
Mexicans and Central Americans, the approval rate is substantially lower.

Are some people just looking for a better life?

Simply wanting a better life does not meet the international criteria to qualify
for asylum. But there are people who apply anyway because it gives them some
benefits, albeit temporarily, even if they ultimately lose their case.

Since the election of Mr. Trump, undocumented immigrants who have lived in the
country for many years and fear deportation have been applying for asylum,
knowing that they are unlikely to win, but hoping to remain in the country
legally for a time.

While their application crawls through the courts, they can obtain work permits
and driver's licenses.

The administration, which has taken a hard-line on immigration, has said that it
is seeking to expedite asylum cases and crack down on abuse.

''There is a significant increase in terms of individuals seeking asylum,'' said
Jennifer Higgins, an associate director at United States Immigration and
Citizenship Services who handles refugee and asylum issues. ''Our goal is to
make sure we have a fair and efficient asylum system. Right now we have
individuals exploiting it. That means legitimate applicants will suffer.''

The government has also said that it will prosecute those who break immigration
law.

In the case of the caravan, critics say that it would be a violation of
international law to conduct speedy hearings for the caravan members at the
expense of a full hearing of their claims.

''The Trump administration has made clear that asylum seekers associated with
the caravan will be subjected to detention, criminal prosecutions, and rushed
proceedings, in essence punishing them for seeking refugee protection,'' said
Ms. Acer.

But Ms. Higgins said officials are assigning staff and officers to help house
and process all those admitted for hearings, wherever they end up.




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/30/us/migrant-caravan-asylum.html

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2018 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                        April 30, 2018 Monday 19:56 EST

A Refugee Caravan is Hoping for Asylum in the U.S. How Are These Cases Decided?

BYLINE: Miriam Jordan

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 1797 words



HIGHLIGHT: A look at the explosion of asylum applicants and how managing them
has become one of the Trump administration's toughest immigration challenges.


Russian ballet dancers, Cuban baseball players and Chinese political dissidents.
These are the kind of people fleeing persecution in their homelands who
typically won asylum in the United States over the years.

In many cases, they were in the country for a theatrical performance, a
conference or a sports tournament, then sought refuge. Think Martina
Navratilova, the Czech tennis player, who defected during the 1975 U.S. Open.

Over the past five years, though, the number of asylum applications has
skyrocketed. Civil wars in Africa, gang violence in Central America and
government crackdowns in China have contributed to a backlog of hundreds of
thousands of cases and processing times of up to six years. This presents a
range of challenges to U.S. authorities, who are required under international
law to give all of the cases careful consideration.

This week, a caravan of 150 to 200 migrants, mainly from Honduras, Guatemala and
El Salvador, is waiting at the Mexican border in Tijuana to claim asylum, hoping
to win permission to stay in the United States. But President Trump has urged
his administration to redouble its efforts to enforce border laws, referring to
the caravan over the weekend as "that mess," and declaring, "We have the worst
laws anywhere in the world, we don't have borders."

Here's a look at how we got here, and what America's legal obligations are.

What is the legal backdrop?

The international agreement to protect asylum seekers emerged after the horrific
events of World War II. The United Nations signed the refugee convention in
1951, which the United States ratified and incorporated into law in 1980.

The goal is to provide a safe haven for those who can prove they are fleeing
persecution in their homeland.

What's the difference between a refugee and an asylum-seeker?

There are two ways people can win protection and the right to live permanently
in the United States. In both cases they must prove the same well-founded fear
of persecution on account of race, religion, nationality, political opinion or
membership in a particular social group.

People who apply and are selected overseas eventually enter the United States as
refugees.

Many of them, hundreds of thousands, remain parked in camps as the refugee
application process unfolds, typically over several years. That process involves
several interviews with United Nations and American officials. The United States
also conducts several layers of security screening.

People already on United States soil apply for asylum.

Alexander Godunov, a principal dancer with the renowned Bolshoi Ballet, was
granted asylum in the United States in 1979. He was the first of several dancers
to defect from the Bolshoi during that year's tour in the United States. He
requested asylum in New York City and received it immediately. Ms. Navratilova
received asylum in October 1975, a month after filing for it.

During the 1980s, civil war in El Salvador displaced several hundred thousand
people. Tens of thousands flocked to the United States and applied for political
asylum.

Nowadays, the process of applying for asylum often takes years to complete, from
start to finish. It involves interviews with United States immigration officials
and often with immigration judges.

Whether people entered the country legally or not, they are eligible to apply
for asylum.

The surge

The world is suffering the worst refugee crisis since World War II. There are
now a staggering number of refugees, asylum-seekers and displaced people --
about 50 million.

Violence around the globe is pushing desperate people to seek safety across
international borders. People from the Middle East and Africa are taking rickety
boats and making treacherous treks to reach Europe. They are less likely to show
up at the southwest border of the United States than people from Latin America
who are, relatively speaking, nearby and can come over land.

In recent years, violence in Central America -- it has some of the highest
murder rates in the world -- has prompted tens of thousands of people since 2014
to make the perilous journey to the United States.

The migrants either turn themselves in at the border to American authorities or
sneak into the country illegally. Regardless, they then declare that they are
seeking asylum.

Before 2011, only 1 percent of all arriving foreigners requested asylum. Today,
one out of 10 apply, according to government officials.

The caravan

Jeff Sessions, the United States Attorney General, called the caravan now
awaiting processing at the San Ysidro port of entry a "deliberate attempt to
undermine our laws and overwhelm our system."

"There is no right to demand entry without justification," he said, adding that
he would deploy prosecutors to handle cases.

Indeed, there are signs that the administration is seeking to disqualify certain
applicants, such as victims of domestic violence, who have sometimes won asylum.
Recently, Mr. Sessions suggested they should not be eligible.

Yet the law does require authorities to accept and consider their petitions.

Once they are processed at the port of entry, they are likely to be transferred
to a detention facility where they must pass the first step in the asylum
process, a "credible-fear" interview with an officer of the United States
Immigration and Citizenship Services.

The number of credible-fear interviews conducted by the federal agency has
soared from 5,000 in 2007 to 80,000 last year.

More than three quarters of those interviewed pass that screening and are
referred to an immigration judge for hearings that may span months or longer.
(Those who fail the interview can be deported immediately.)

Asylum applicants awaiting a hearing before a judge either remain in detention
or are released wearing a tracking device, such as an ankle monitor, with a date
to appear in court.

Many Central Americans stay with friends and relatives who already live in the
United States. Once 180 days have passed after filing of their application, they
are eligible to work in the United States. Their children attend public schools.

Because some migrants in the past have skipped their court hearings, Mr. Trump
has criticized the practice of releasing migrants, describing it as "catch and
release." In recent months, his administration has ordered border officers to,
when possible, keep these migrants in detention, rather than release them.

"While these asylum seekers are, on paper, eligible for consideration for
release on parole, in reality ICE holds them in detention for long periods of
time," said Eleanor Acer, director of refugee protection for Human Rights First.

United States officials say the administration is trying to figure out how to
deal with the surge in asylum applications in a manner that is consistent with
its international obligations.

Part of the problem is that immigration courts are clogged, and not just with
asylum cases.

At of the end of March, there were 692,298 cases in the backlog, according to
Syracuse University's Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse, which tracks
the trends. The average wait time for current pending cases was 718 days, or
nearly two years.

Are their claims legitimate?

Central Americans who apply for asylum often have been threatened with death or
suffered attacks at the hands of gangs. Often mothers flee to protect their
children from recruitment.

"We have seen firsthand the extraordinarily violent conditions in the Northern
Triangle of Central America that forces families and children to flee their
homes in search of urgently needed safety in the U.S.," said Jennifer Sime,
senior vice president of United States programs at the International Rescue
Committee.

"Those who qualify and are fleeing violence, who have no other route to
protection, should be granted safety and asylum," she said.

Immigrant advocates say their circumstances are akin to those faced by people
escaping war in Syria or Somalia. However, it is more difficult for Central
Americans to win their cases.

"A huge percentage of these people get deported," said Marty Rosenbluth, an
immigration attorney. "It's a really difficult struggle to win asylum."

Mr. Rosenbluth said that all of his asylum cases based on gang violence have
failed because his clients could not establish that they fit into a social group
suffering particular persecution to qualify.

In some cases, judges have found that applicants fabricated or exaggerated their
claims, though that is not usually the case.

Immigration court records show that more asylum cases were denied over the
previous five years than have been granted. In fiscal year 2016, 62 percent of
asylum cases were denied, compared with 44.5 percent five years earlier. Among
Mexicans and Central Americans, the approval rate is substantially lower.

Are some people just looking for a better life?

Simply wanting a better life does not meet the international criteria to qualify
for asylum. But there are people who apply anyway because it gives them some
benefits, albeit temporarily, even if they ultimately lose their case.

Since the election of Mr. Trump, undocumented immigrants who have lived in the
country for many years and fear deportation have been applying for asylum,
knowing that they are unlikely to win, but hoping to remain in the country
legally for a time.

While their application crawls through the courts, they can obtain work permits
and driver's licenses.

The administration, which has taken a hard-line on immigration, has said that it
is seeking to expedite asylum cases and crack down on abuse.

"There is a significant increase in terms of individuals seeking asylum," said
Jennifer Higgins, an associate director at United States Immigration and
Citizenship Services who handles refugee and asylum issues. "Our goal is to make
sure we have a fair and efficient asylum system. Right now we have individuals
exploiting it. That means legitimate applicants will suffer."

The government has also said that it will prosecute those who break immigration
law.

In the case of the caravan, critics say that it would be a violation of
international law to conduct speedy hearings for the caravan members at the
expense of a full hearing of their claims.

"The Trump administration has made clear that asylum seekers associated with the
caravan will be subjected to detention, criminal prosecutions, and rushed
proceedings, in essence punishing them for seeking refugee protection," said Ms.
Acer.

But Ms. Higgins said officials are assigning staff and officers to help house
and process all those admitted for hearings, wherever they end up.

Alain Delaqueriere contributed research.

Related Articles


     ·    Migrant Caravan of Asylum Seekers Reaches U.S. Border
     ·    Inside an Immigrant Caravan: Women and Children, Fleeing Violence
     ·    'You Hate America!': How the 'Caravan' Story Exploded on the Right


LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2018 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                 Jerusalem Post

                              April 2, 2018 Monday

Jewish American identity

BYLINE: STEVEN A. FOX

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 763 words


As an American rabbi, I know that I and my family members owe our lives to the
openness and generosity of this country. At our Passover Seders last week, we
were reminded that for us our ancestors were wandering Arameans.

Being from somewhere else is embedded in our DNA, as the Haggada reminds us. My
parents were German and Austrian Jewish refugees driven from Europe by the
Holocaust. They were welcomed in by this country, rebuilt their lives here, and
raised two Americans, my sister and me.

Other than Native Americans, all of us who call America home came from somewhere
else. Jews, as much as any other group, fled pogroms and poverty and
discrimination. For 2,000 years, we have lived as refugees. Having been expelled
from Israel, we were then pushed from place to place, expelled and persecuted in
one country after another. It is no accident that a common antisemitic trope
throughout history has been the image of the "wandering Jew" or the "rootless
cosmopolitan." These negative stereotypes share a kernel of truth in that our
lives wherever we happened to live were often fragile and precarious.

Our stories of the United States as a refuge inspire a deep sense of gratitude
to this country and are integral to the Jewish American identity.

We must recall this common history when threats arise to other groups seeking
protection in our own time. A few weeks ago, the US Supreme Court rejected
President Donald Trump's attempt to speed up a court hearing challenging his
efforts to deport young undocumented immigrants called "Dreamers." Just a few
days before, African refugees in Israel began a hunger strike to protest the
government's plan to deport refugees from Eritrea and Sudan, which is scheduled
to go into effect on April 1.

As a Jew, I believe fervently that Israel and America should offer shelter to
these groups instead of endangering their lives. To offer refuge is to live by
our Jewish and American values, to protect human rights, and to remember our
history.

Dreamers were brought to the US as children, involuntarily. Many of them have no
memories of their parents' countries - and many of those countries, such as El
Salvador, remain dangerous. To send them back would be to penalize them for
their parents' actions, uprooting them from their homes and putting their very
lives at risk. Threatening the 800,000 DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood
Arrivals) recipients or 3.6 million total Dreamers with deportation is an attack
on our deep-rooted Jewish American values.

In Israel, the story is similar. From 2006-2012, thousands of Eritrean and
Sudanese refugees arrived in Israel, fleeing violence, political instability and
crushing poverty. Eritrea is so oppressive - it's notable for its practice of
indefinite military conscription, essentially slave labor - that it is known as
the "North Korea of Africa." Sudan, as many Jews know from our advocacy for
Darfur, has been a hotbed of genocide and other severe crises.

Many of these refugees were trafficked through the Sinai Peninsula, where they
were tortured. Despite international treaty obligations, Israel has granted less
than 1% of these people asylum. Almost every Israeli Jew has refugees in his or
her family tree. We can't sympathize with our own history and concurrently deny
that sympathy to people suffering now.

It is not just the Haggada that reminds us what it is to be a stranger and
dependent on the benevolence of a host country. The Torah itself reminds us over
and over to "love the stranger, for you were strangers in the land of Egypt"
(Deuteronomy 10:19). One of the names of God used in the Talmud is "Rahamana" or
"Compassionate One," showing the importance of caring for our fellow human
beings.

This means that human rights should guide policy more than fear or hatred. The
US welcomed my parents when they most desperately needed refuge. That reality
shaped my family into the proud American Jews we became, painfully aware of our
past and gratefully appreciative of our future.

As Jewish Americans, we should feel obligated to speak out on behalf of the
Dreamers and African refugees, and others. We must urge both the US and Israel
to turn to their histories of immigration and refuge for the dispossessed and
act with compassion toward those who so desperately need a home today. In this
way, we celebrate Passover and we live the words "You shall not oppress a
stranger, for you know the feelings of the stranger, for you were strangers in
the land of Egypt." (Exodus 23:9)

The author is chief executive officer of the Central Conference of American
Rabbis (CCAR).

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: 'OTHER THAN Native Americans, all of us who call America home
came from somewhere else. Jews, as much as any other group, fled pogroms and
poverty and discrimination.' (Credit: Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              April 2, 2018 Monday

Washington: Omaha World Herald: U.N. official: 'U.S. leadership is needed' on
refugees; Fortenberry says others need to step up

LENGTH: 678 words


Washington: Office of the MP Jeff Fortenberry has issued the following news
release:    War, conflict and persecution drive people from their home countries
across the globe.  The United Nations high commissioner for refugees, Filippo
Grandi, was in Washington recently highlighting the importance of the United
States' efforts to help those who have been forced to flee from their homes.
"This is a global phenomenon as we have seen with the arrivals in Europe, with
new massive crises in Africa, in Bangladesh and so forth," Grandi told The
World-Herald. "The message is: U.S. leadership is needed."    The United States
already is a major financial contributor to humanitarian programs that support
refugees, he said, but it's important to continue that support and also to
dedicate sufficient resources to receive and process refugees.

A recent Associated Press analysis of refugee arrival data predicts that about
20,000 refugees will come this year, far below the more than 53,000 that came in
2017.  Grandi said it's in America's national interest to address humanitarian
crises. Hanging in the balance, after all, is the stability of areas such as the
Middle East and Asia, which hold strategic importance to the United States.  He
noted approvingly that Nebraska took in more refugees per capita in 2016 than
any other state. Lincoln, for example, boasts a large Yazidi population.  Aides
cited Nebraska refugee programs that they said are making a difference,
including the work of the Omaha Refugee Task Force and agencies such as Lutheran
Family Services.  Public discussion often focuses on potential disadvantages of
welcoming refugees, from security risks to economic effects, and not enough on
the many positive aspects, Grandi said.  "In the end, these people become
producers, taxpayers, good citizens," Grandi said.  Social worker Kaela Volkmer
was among the St. Wenceslaus Catholic Church parishioners who welcomed a Syrian
family to the area in December 2016.  Although Volkmer has since moved to a
different parish, she continues to be involved with the family.  She said
challenges included getting the family members transportation early on -- they
are living in Elkhorn, where access to public transportation is limited. And
navigating the bureaucracy can be difficult.  "I speak the language and have the
education, and still my head spins when I'm on the phone trying to figure some
of these things out," Volkmer said.  However, the family is making great
progress with the help of the community, she said, with the children getting a
lot of attention in school and the father now driving a donated car.  Volkmer
understands that some Americans are afraid that refugees might pose a risk but
she said refugees are extensively vetted and enrich the communities they join.
"They're scared of terrorism, too," she said. "That's what they're running from.
That's what they've been victims of. They're looking for a safe place that they
can call home."  Rep. Jeff Fortenberry, R-Neb., a member of the House
Appropriations Committee who has focused on international issues, agreed that
the United States plays an important role when it comes to refugees.  And he
cited the Yazidis as a great example of refugees contributing to their
community.  But he also said there's too much reliance on the United States and
that the international approach to refugees could use a rethinking.  "The 21st
century architecture for diplomatic relationships is going to be built on
authenticity, not just the fact that the United States became the world's
superpower 75 years ago after World War II and therefore is expected to carry
the load by ourselves," Fortenberry said. "That's the reality."  He said those
"authentic partnerships," an examination of refugee missions and measurable
outcomes are necessary.  "We will not do this by ourselves anymore," Fortenberry
said. "We will not carry the burden alone, especially when other economies have
advanced, when other countries want to take a rightful place at the leadership
table in international affairs."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2018 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                            March 28, 2018 Wednesday
                                  Main Edition

New refugee policies are reshaping Washington

BYLINE: Nina Shapiro and Justin Mayo Seattle Times

SECTION: C; Pg. 003

LENGTH: 518 words


In a SeaTac gathering place for Somali refugees, the stories poured forth - of
people left behind, of hopes to bring them here.

Rahmo Omar, a 35-year-old who has trouble walking due to polio, talked of a
cousin who looked after her in a Kenyan refugee camp.

Fadumo Ibrahim said she is waiting for three sons in their 20s, also refugees in
Kenya.

Suleika Mohamed's husband, traveling around Africa for work when she was placed
in the U.S., now lives in a tent in Uganda. Their three kids, ages 6 to 10, keep
asking: "When is Dad going to come?"

On it went among a dozen people gathered around a table in a Somali Youth &
Family Club office.

Aden Hussein, the club's chief of community relations, can offer little
reassurance. He has seen the data.

Among refugees resettled in Washington, "Somalis always had high numbers," he
said. Then President Donald Trump took office, and "things changed completely."

Fadumo Ibrahim, a Somali refugee in SeaTac, has three adult sons in a Kenyan
refugee camp hoping to join her.

Just nine Somali refugees came to Washington in roughly the past six months
(Oct. 1 to March 15), representing almost the first half of the 2018 fiscal
year, according to U.S. State Department figures collected by the Associated
Press and the Seattle Times. During the same period the year before, 210 Somalis
arrived.

Refugees entering Washington from Iraq and Iran, numbering in the hundreds last
year, totaled just 15 combined over the past six months. The number of Syrian
refugees during that period: 0.

The numbers, largely mirroring trends nationwide, reflect Trump making good on
his promises.

At a 2016 campaign rally in Everett, while the Syrian refugee crisis was being
recognized as the worst since World War II, prompting Canada and Germany to open
their doors wide, Trump vowed to do the opposite.

"Bad, bad things are gonna happen," he said, if Syrians kept coming to the U.S.,
alluding to possible terrorist infiltrators. "This could be the great Trojan
horse of all time."

Indeed, Trump has frequently voiced suspicion about Muslim refugees in general -
pointing to assaults and terrorist attacks in Europe, some involving recent
arrivals. Debates here, in Europe and  Canada rage about how to guard against
dangers while providing humanitarian relief.

Trump has had a hard time implementing his approach. Court challenges have
halted and modified executive orders that temporarily banned either all refugees
or those from mostly Muslim-majority countries.

Trump succeeded, however, in blocking most refugees from 11 countries -
including Syria, Iran, Iraq and Somalia - for 90 days. That period ended in
January, but the administration then imposed heightened security screenings of
refugees from those countries.

"They are designed to keep nefarious and fraudulent actors from exploiting the
refugee program to enter the United States," the Department of Homeland Security
said in its announcement.

Trump also capped the total number of refugees to be taken in at 45,000 in
fiscal 2018, the lowest figure since 1980, down from the 110,000 goal set by
President Barack Obama.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2018 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                              92 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                Mail & Guardian

                                 March 22, 2018

Home away from home: The rise of immigration from Africa to Europe and the US

BYLINE: Mashadi Kekana

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 936 words



HIGHLIGHT: Between 2010 and 2017, the number of people emigrating from
sub-Saharan countries to other regions grew by 31%


Migration from African countries to other regions across the globe has increased
dramatically over the past decade with "African nations accounting for eight of
the 10 fastest growing immigration populations since 2010", according to a
report released on Thursday.The report analysed data on migration patterns from
sub-Saharan African countries-  specifically South Africa, Ghana, Nigeria,
Kenya, Senegal and Tanzania- to Europe and the United States. Published by the
Pew Research Center, it is titled: At least a million sub-Saharan Africans moved
to Europe since 2010: Sub-Saharan migration to the United States also growing.It
found that, between 2010 and 2017, the number of people emigrating from
sub-Saharan countries grew by 31%. This far outpaced the Asia-Pacific region
where emigration grew by 5% and the Latin America-Caribbean region, which
increased by 9%. The only region that had higher rates of people living outside
of their birth country was the Middle East-North Africa region at 39% mostly
because of large numbers of people fleeing conflict in Syria.Most of the
migrants from sub-Saharan Africa found a new home in the United States and in
Europe - through various channels including applying for asylum, applying for
lawful permanent residency or refugee status. Others entered on family or work
visas, or as resettled refugees or international students, said the report.

Emigration to Europe Europe- defined in the report as the European Union
countries, Norway and Switzerland- is not the top destination choice for
potential sub-Saharan African migrants, based on surveys conducted.  Most
migrants (according to the report) have the US as their first choice of
destination.  But border statistics reveal a well travelled route from Africa to
Europe. In the year 2010, 58 000 immigrants applied for asylum in Europe. Less
than a decade later, in 2017, this number had more than doubled to 168 000
representing the rising tide of migrants seeking to move to European countries.
Europe has had more immigrants from diverse African countries than the US with
54% of the population coming from Nigeria, South Africa, Somalia, Senegal,
Ghana, Angola, Kenya, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Cameroon and CÃ´te
d'Ivoire. The top countries for migrants to start a new life in once they've
moved to Europe are the United Kingdom, France, Italy and Portugal. Emigration
to the USFrom 2010 to 2017, there were approximately 400 000 sub-Saharan
migrants that moved to the States.The diversity visa programme, famously known
as the green card lottery, is government's way of diversifying the immigrant
population in the US by granting visas to underrepresented regions.  Every year,
the programme randomly selects 50 000 applicants and gives them a green card.The
report shows that, in South Africa, 39% of potential migrants say they want to
migrate to the US versus 22% that have Europe as their first choice. In 2010,
the US had 52 000 migrants being granted lawful permanent residency and refugee
status. In 2017, this number was 78 000, which is much lower than Europe's
migrant intake during the same time frame. This signals that although more
migrants prefer the US, there are stricter laws and regulations that present
challenges to moving there so people end up in Europe instead. The countries
with the most migrants living in the states, as of 2017, were Nigeria, Ethiopia,
Ghana and Kenya-- less diversity than Europe.The US's migrant population was
generally more spread out across the country with 42% living in the South, 18%
in the Northeast and 17% in the Midwest. Reasons for leaving country of originIn
2017, the Pew Research Center ran a survey in six African countries - South
Africa, Ghana, Nigeria, Kenya, Senegal and Tanzania - which have provided the
highest number of the migrants living in the US and Europe. People living in
these countries were asked whether they would move to another country and at
least four out of 10 in each country answered that they would definitely move if
they had the "means and opportunity". The biggest reason given was the high
unemployment rates and low wage rates in many of their countries. Other reasons
were political instability and conflict, which is how large numbers end up as
refugees in other countries. The report said that the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees estimates that the number of sub-Saharans displaced
within their own country nearly doubled to 9 million between 2010 and 2016.  An
analysis of the migration patterns from Africa to Europe and the States
indicates that the number of migrants is expected to increase in the coming
decades, with a major reason being the continent's growing population. However,
the response of nations receiving these migrants is yet to be seen.READ MORE:
Supreme Court refuses to hear Trump bid to end DACAEurope's response so far has
been to focus on illegal immigration through the contentious EU-Horn of Africa
Migration Route Initiative. READ MORE: Is the European Union putting African
migrants at risk?The EU-Horn of Africa Migration Route Initiative, more commonly
known as the Khartoum Process, is an agreement between 37 European Union and
African states aimed at creating a platform to address issues surrounding
smuggling of migrants and human trafficking.Meanwhile, the US government has
reduced the number of refugees it resettles and has proposed to cut back on
other legal pathways to the country. READ MORE: The very American myth of
'exceptional immigrants'
Read the full report here:   At Least a Million Sub-Saharan Africans Moved to
Europe Since 2010 report

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2018 M and G Media (Pty) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                        CE Noticias Financieras English

                              March 2, 2018 Friday

More than 70 million displaced people in world conflicts alarm UN

LENGTH: 384  words


TEGUCIGALPA, 2 Mar 2018 (AFP) - More than 70 million people displaced by global
conflicts in Asia, Africa and Latin America "worry" the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), warned the Honduran deputy commissioner in
Honduras on Thursday. body, Kelly Clements.

"We currently have approximately 70 million displaced people in the world and
the main place is Syria," said a diplomat who arrived in Honduras from Guatemala
after a visit to Mexico to see the migration from Central America to the United
States. of "worries".

Refugee flows are causing "great impact on the responsibility of host
countries," he deplored.

The US diplomat lamented that Syria has five million refugees and at least 6.7
million displaced.

He also lamented what the Democratic Republic of the Congo is experiencing where
there are refugees fleeing from Uganda and other neighboring countries.

"Uganda has particularly had large flows of refugees from South Sudan which is
another area of ??great concern, and there are also great needs in relation to
Somalia, the Central African Republic and other countries," he said.

He also mentioned the Democratic Republic of the Congo where they are fleeing to
Uganda and other neighboring countries, Somalia and the Central African Republic
"as well as Sudan, which is another concern," he said.

He said he arrived in northern Central America and Mexico because there is a
"crisis" due to migration to the United States because of "gang violence and
other reasons that require countries to continue to open their borders and
strengthen their asylum systems" .

He added that other problems in northern Central America concern "poverty and
lack of governance."

He explained that he visited neighborhoods in Tegucigalpa where families can not
leave their homes, children can not go to school and their teachers receive
threats from gang members.

In Latin America, he also regretted the departure of Venezuelans to neighboring
countries such as Colombia and Brazil where humanitarian aid is urgently needed
but which require a lot of support to keep their borders "open".

In defense of the United States, he stressed that it is the country that
receives the most refugees in the world and the one that most supports the
agencies that finance humanitarian assistance.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CENFENG

                      Copyright 2018 Content Engine, LLC.
                              All Rights Reserved
                     Copyright 2018 CE Noticias Financieras
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                            February 4, 2018, Sunday

US promised to protect refugees after Holocaust

BYLINE: Rebecca Erbelding

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P8A

LENGTH: 876 words


The Trump administration has proposed limiting the annual number of refugees
resettled in the United States to 45,000, citing national security concerns.
While introducing new vetting procedures for refugees, Secretary of Homeland
Security Kirstjen Nielsen issued a statement on Monday that the United States
"must continue to fulfill its obligation to the global community to assist those
facing persecution.

Modern American refugee policy was written in the wake of the Holocaust, after
Nazi Germany and its collaborators murdered millions, including hundreds of
thousands of Jews who had applied to immigrate but were unable to navigate
strict U.S. laws. Yet it is almost certain that even before that, the United
States in 1939 - while facing high unemployment, national security fears and an
impending world war - admitted more refugees fleeing persecution than we did in
2017 or will in 2018.

By 1938, Americans had suffered under the Great Depression for nearly a decade.
After a partial economic recovery in the mid-1930s, a new recession brought
workforce unemployment back up to 19 percent.

As the world marked the 20th anniversary of the end of World War I in November
of that year, Nazi German leadership unleashed the Kristallnacht pogrom. Their
followers destroyed shops and synagogues, and arrested 30,000 Jewish men and
boys, who were sent to concentration camps.

Another war seemed inevitable. On the radio, singer Kate Smith debuted a new
song with a verse we've forgotten today: "While the storm clouds gather, far
across the sea, let us swear allegiance to a land that's free. ... God bless
America, land that I love. Americans did not want to be dragged into another
war, and many people worried that the Nazis, or the Japanese or the Soviets,
might have placed spies or saboteurs in their midst.

America's immigration laws had then been in place since the 1924 Johnson-Reed
Act, which designated the number of immigration slots open to people born in
specific countries. That way, the authors of the act argued, it wouldn't matter
where an immigrant was living, only where they were born, their "national
origin.

It was a way to restrict applicants born in southern and Eastern Europe, Africa
and the areas of Asia where immigration wasn't already banned, and to promote
applicants from countries that were whiter, who, they thought would be more
easily assimilated.

Norway, from which President Donald Trump reportedly recently pined for more
immigrants, originally had an annual quota of 6,543 immigrants to the United
States. In contrast, only 1,200 immigrants could come from the entirety of
Africa.

In 1939, the United States admitted at least 43,450 Jews, almost all from
Europe. But we know the number only because immigrants arriving here had to list
their own "race, and until 1943, the Immigration and Naturalization Service (now
split into two different Department of Homeland Security agencies) considered
"Hebrew a race.

Plenty of people being persecuted by the Nazis as Jews didn't self-identify as
Jewish and would have listed themselves as "German (for example), so the actual
number of refugees fleeing Nazism that year was clearly higher than 43,450.
Although the United States did not have a substantive refugee policy - those
fleeing persecution had to follow the same steps as other immigrants - Jewish
refugees alone constituted more than half of all immigration to the United
States.

At the same time, more than 300,000 applicants sat on the German quota waiting
list. In the Johnson-Reed Act, U.S. officials had granted to Germany the
second-largest quota of any country, though the authors of the racist and
anti-Semitic immigration law probably would not have done so had they known that
most of the applicants in the 1930s would be Jewish. Germany's 27,370 quota
slots meant an 11-year wait for new applicants.

Though neither they nor the U.S. government knew it at the time, most of the
people on the list in 1939 would not make it to America; they would, instead, be
killed in the Holocaust.

The Holocaust began in 1941 after American consulates were forced to close in
Nazi territory. The Washington Post first introduced Americans to the word
"genocide in December 1944. Most people here would not see photographic evidence
of the Holocaust until the concentration camps in western Europe were liberated
in 1945.

Today, we know the Myanmar military is murdering the minority Rohingya
population and tens of thousands of Syrians are being "disappeared by their own
government. We have film, photographs, evidence, testimony, witnesses.

In the 80 years since the refugee crisis of the late 1930s, the U.S. population
has nearly tripled. Instead of the 19 percent unemployment of 1938, the current
unemployment rate is 4.1 percent. Though the president engages in terrifying
rhetoric on Twitter, world war does not seem imminent. Our tools for weeding out
potential spies and saboteurs are infinitely more sophisticated.

The United Nations High Commission on Human Rights declared in 2016 that the
ongoing refugee crisis is the worst since World War II. We lament America's
failure to admit more European Jewish refugees before the Holocaust. Our
descendants will be much harsher when they look at America's inaction today.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2018 Charleston Newspapers


                              95 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 1, 2018 Thursday

Washington: Amid President Trump's Divisive Rhetoric & Actions Regarding
Immigrants and Refugees, Senators Murray, Cantwell Introduce Resolution
Reaffirming Nation's Commitment and Proud History of Refugee Resettlement

LENGTH: 448  words



Washington: Office of the Senator Patty Murray has issued the following news
release:

Today, U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) joined nine
Democrats to introduce a resolution affirming the United States' commitment to
welcoming refugees from around the world, and calling on the Trump
Administration to resettle more refugees in the United States. In the last 40
years, the United States resettled 80,000 refugees per year on average, but
during his first year in office, President Trump's Administration nearly halved
the number to 45,000--the lowest refugee admissions ceiling ever set.


Since then, the Trump Administration has further hindered the country's capacity
to accept refugees and other immigrants, putting the United States Refugee
Admissions Program on pace to only admit between 15,000-20,000 refugees this
year. Decreasing the number of refugees in the United States would have a direct
impact on Washington state, where studies show refugees acclimate quickly to
local communities and make significant contributions to the economy and tax
revenue: according to a recent report, Washington state is among the top six
states for refugee contributions, generating approximately $242 million in state
and local tax revenue and more than $2.1 billion in spending power.
"Time and again President Trump has doubled down on his divisive rhetoric about
refugees with policies that undermine critical humanitarian efforts and ignore
the United States' role as a world leader," said Senator Murray. "Our country
has long stood as a symbol of hope and security for people around the world
fleeing persecution from religious, political, ethnic and gender-based
oppression and violence, and turning our backs on our global neighbors during
one of the worst refugee crises in recent history flies in the face of who we
are as a nation. I will continue working with my colleagues in the United States
Senate to ensure that the front door of our nation remains open for any and all
who are fleeing horrific violence and seeking to build a life in safety here in
the United States--and urge President Trump to reverse his dangerous vision for
America's future."
A report from the New American Economy estimates that approximately 80,000
refugees currently reside in Washington state. Senators Murray and Cantwell have
been vocal opponents of President Trump's reckless targeting of individuals on
the basis of religion or nationality, and in March 2017 introduced legislation
to reverse President Trump's reissued executive order restricting refugees and
travelers from six Muslim-majority nations in Africa and the Middle East from
traveling to the United States.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2018 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                     The Times & Transcript (New Brunswick)

                           January 31, 2018 Wednesday

Letters to the Editor: Cut international spending, focus on domestic issues

SECTION: Pg. A6

LENGTH: 740 words


Cut foreign spending, target domestic issues

Prime Minister Trudeau's recent pledge of $180 million to the Global Partnership
for Education Fund to help support education in developing countries seems very
generous, especially during fiscally challenging economic times when budgets are
not balanced and Canadians have their own domestic issues that are currently
unresolved.

While Prime Minister Trudeau wants to globally help people who have been
marginalized in other countries, what about those who are being marginalized in
his own country like my 87-year-old mother who has been on waiting list for over
a year to find a family doctor?

Women, children and the elderly are the most vulnerable in our society. I am so
glad that the Prime Minister has a $180 million of borrowed money to give that
will help the needs of non-Canadians first, while Canadians who have paid taxes
their whole life do not have access to a family physician.

It is my opinion that during periods of challenging economic times the Prime
Minister should solve his own domestic issues first before taking the issues of
the world on at Canadian's expense.

Stuart Lyons

Dieppe

U.S. has lost standing on global stage

It's so sad that a country of the United States' stature should be consumed with
the State of The Union that the current POTUS delivered on Tuesday, though not
with the same focus as its traditional airing.

Never mind the pungent and lingering stench on the domestic front; it won't be
the same for foreign trust and engagement for a considerable time now - I would
argue until every current head of state has moved on, taking with them the
distasteful memory of their interaction with this clownish and corrupt
administration.

There are already policy changes and trade alliances globally that will limit or
exclude U.S. participation, much less the perception that the stability of their
political system has been so fantastically compromised (irrespective of whether
his election was legitimate or impacted by foreign actors), and will continue to
be globally suspect well into the future even if successors are foreign policy
wunderkinds.

The voluntary climate change initiative is here to stay whether the time frame
is extended/judiciously adhered to or not; Mexico's deal with South America's
Mercosur and Canada's signing on to the TPP without Trump's constant
flip-flopping predicated on a 'better deal' for the U.S., for example - a
Wharton 'not-graduate' who hasn't the foggiest notion to what extent current
deals are beneficial to the U.S., e.g. NAFTA.

He just likes spouting the word 'deal' as if it awarded him some cachet as a
'negotiator'.

Terry Gorman

Moncton

Israel's refugee issue similar to U.S.

In the years before 2012, many African refugees traveled on foot from their
countries to the Sinai and then on to Israel. The majority were Christian
Eritreans.

In 2012, the Israeli government installed a border fence in the Sinai preventing
refugees from entering Israel. This caused refugees to seek a new escape route.
So began the attempts to cross the Mediterranean Sea to Italy from Libya.

Today there are 37,300 asylum seekers living in Israel, of which 85 per cent are
Eritreans. Since Eritrea has been involved in conflicts with other African
countries and rebel groups, the government has forced all Eritrean men to be in
the army permanently. This has forced many to return to their country where they
will be branded as traitors and executed.

Israel does not want these refugees and Prime Minister Netanyahu calls them
"infiltrators." The Israeli government announced on Jan. 1, 2018 that it would
relocate these "infiltrators" to countries in Africa.

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees interviewed 80 refugees who
had been relocated from Israel to sub-Saharan Africa. These refugees had
traveled through countries involved in conflicts and finally reached Libya.
During this journey they reported abuse, torture and extortion before risking
their lives crossing the Mediterranean Sea to Italy.

This is a surprising step for Israel to take, since the State of Israel was
formed by refugees and immigrants from other countries after the Second World
War. Also, the persecution suffered by the Jewish people makes it hard to
understand why they would do it to others.

It is interesting that President Trump has copied Prime Minister Netanyahu
actions.

Jean L MacDonald

Quispamsis !@COPYRIGHT=© 2018 Times &; Transcript (Moncton)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2018 The Times & Transcript.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 28, 2018 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; READER COMMENTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 563 words


Leaving Africa, and Living in Limbo

In Metropolitan last Sunday, Matt Katz wrote about Andre Twendele, who fled
Africa for America, leaving his wife in a refugee camp. Now, it has become
nearly impossible for her to join him. Readers responded on nytimes.com;
comments were edited for length and clarity.

Beyond heartbreaking, and beyond belief that human beings in the 21st century
are forced to live in this manner. Their personal courage in the face of
unspeakable horror shames the spineless majority of the American Congress.

John Kerr, Brooklyn

Give me a break. Let's treat the kid in Chicago with asthma, and the retiree in
Florida, before we allow another refugee in. There are a million Mr. Twendeles;
it is unfair to all of them that he gets in and they can't.

thewriterstuff, Planet Earth

Mr. Twendele, you have accomplished the first step and made the voyage to
America. In ancient days of Greek mythology, there was a hero, his name was
Ulysses, and your story in some ways is similar to his. You are stronger than
you realize, more resilient than many of us, you speak a second language, you
are still young. America has a large African community, and let us remember, as
a friend from Ghana and another from French West Africa, both young
grandmothers, reminded me recently, this president will go.

Miss Ley, New York

Mr.Twendele is exactly the kind of person we need in America.

Steve, Ohio

Whatever happened to the ''city upon a hill,'' with ''the eyes of all people''
on us? Why do Americans feel satisfaction or even pride in what Trump says about
immigrants from Africa and Haiti? Wait, don't answer that!

Jamie Nichols, Santa Barbara

So the solution to poverty and corruption in Africa is massive immigration to
America. This is not a tenable solution. America is already the
third-most-populous country after China and India. Immigration cannot solve the
world's problems.

JJackson, New York

The list of ''most populous countries'' is a list of absolute population
numbers, not population relative to square miles. You went from the intimate
portrait of the single couple portrayed in the article to ''massive immigration
to America.'' We may not be able to solve all the world's problems, but if we
can solve some of them, we are ethically required to do so.

Sprite, U.S.A.

I'm not really interested in the problems or life story of Mr. Twendele; there
are over seven billion stories in the world, and the only ones I care about are
the 320 million or so native-born American ones.

John, Thailand

Try the Parrot Whisperer

Readers also commented via Facebook on the Pet City column by Britta Lokting
about Glenn Sorino, a self-described parrot ''pied piper.''

Sorry, but exotic birds are not pets, especially parrots. They don't belong in
cages or in beds with humans, they belong in nature; they almost always live as
lifetime couples and never alone. Glenn Sorino is of no help at all.

Nikolaus Tarouquella-Levitan

Parrots belong in the wild! But we have to give the best life possible to the
ones in captivity -- a much compromised life at that. Parrots are a
high-maintenance pet: The levels of commitment are high in order to prevent
behavioral problems. All parrots retain their wild behavior and are not
domesticated in the way a dog or cat would be. I have taken in rescue parrots,
and it's a huge responsibility.

Nicole Place




URL:

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2018 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               Leadership (Abuja)

                                January 26, 2018

Govt Decries U.S.' Stringent Conditions for Sale of $495m Fighter Jets

BYLINE: Kreazetofa Odey

LENGTH: 824 words


The federal government has expressed worry over the stringent conditions imposed
by the United States government for the sale of 12 Super Tucano A29 planes and
other weapons worth $495million.

This was disclosed by the minister of Defence, Mansur Dan Ali yesterday after
the quarterly meeting of the National Security Council presided over by
President Muhammadu Buhari at the presidential villa, Abuja.

Recall that The Donald Trump administration last December, agreed to proceed
with the sale of the aircrafts to Nigeria after the Obama

administration had delayed it following bombing of a refugee camp in January
last year by the Nigerian Air Force.

According to the minister, the US government insists that the payment must be
made by February 20, 2018, saying that the aircrafts can only be available in
2020.

Also the US government has forbidden Nigerian personnel from being sent to
understudy the production process of the aircrafts as Nigeria had done in the
case of other countries.

The minister said the council has therefore approved that the Ministry of
Defence meets with the US Ambassador to Nigeria, Stuart Symington, to iron out
the contending issues.

He further explained that the $494 million is to acquire the Super Tucano A-29,
train personnel, provide accommodation facilities for the aircraftsand for
continuous servicing.

He explained that, "Some of the stringent measures include that we will start
having them from 2020, which is two years from now.

"They are also thinking of not allowing our technicians to be part of the
production inspection. But this is what we normally do in all the defence
contracts, we send our personnel to go and understudy especially when it comes
to specialised contracts. Like in Russia, our personnel are permanently based in
where the production is being done for this MI35 helicopters."

The minister revealed that the council also discussed the remote and immediate
causes of the frequent farmers/herdsmen deadly clashes in the country, which he
blamed on the blockage of cattle routes, the establishment of anti-grazing laws
by some states and the existence of local militias.

He said: "Look at this issue (killings in Benue and Taraba), what is the remote
causes of this farmers crisis? Since the nation's Independence, we know there
used to be a route whereby the cattle rearers take because they are all over the
nation. You go to Bayelsa, Ogun, you will see them. If those routes are blocked
what do you expect will happen?

"These people are Nigerians. Is just like one going to block shoreline, does
that make sense to you? These are the remote causes of the crisis. But the
immediate cause is the grazing law.

"These people are Nigerians and we must learn to live together with each other.
Communities and other people must learn how to accept foreigners within their
enclave. Finish!"

Asked if he was justifying the killings because of the blocking or the routes,
the minister said: "You are going away from what I came here to do.

However, this is internal security. I can provide some answers. I have told you
that the remote cause is part of the grazing law. Since independence there are
clear routes where these people pass."

On the curtailment of the proliferation of light arms, he said the council has
set up a committee to work out modalities to transform the Presidential
Committee on Small Arms and Light Weapons (PRESCOM) to a National Commission.

He added: "In compliance with the presidential directive for the establishment
of National Commission on the Control of Small Arms and Light Weapons in the
country, the Ministry of Defence in conjunction with the office of the National
Security Adviser has set up a committee to work out modalities to transform the
Presidential Committee on Small Arms and Light Weapons (PRESCOM) to a National
Commission."

Dan Ali said he informed the meeting that in line with the decision of the
present government to increase the strength of the Armed Forces to address
manpower problem, the three services have in the last two years enlisted and
recruited qualified Nigerians.

He said the Ministry of Defence is also building befitting accommodation for
members of the Armed Forces in the six geopolitical zones.

According to him, "Similar accommodations were built by Defence Headquarters and
commissioned by the HMOD in Abuja last month. This has gone a long way to
solving accommodation problem and boosting the morale of personnel serving in
Abuja."

He also spoke on the Military Pension Verification Exercise which was conducted
in all the 36 states and FCT during the period under review, saying that the
process enabled the Military Pension Board to update its data payroll and ensure
financial savings for the government.

He also stressed to the council, the need for the relevant security agencies to
as a matter of urgency tackle "the propagation of hate speeches especially
through the social media particularly by some notable Nigerians."

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2018 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                   Palestine News & Information Agency (WAFA)

                           January 25, 2018 Thursday

Leading aid organizations write top US officials protesting cut in aid to
refugee agency

LENGTH: 467 words


WASHINGTON, January 25, 2018 (WAFA) - The leaders of 21 international aid
organizations sent a letter on Wednesday to top members of US President Donald
Trump's administration strongly protesting a US decision to slash $65 million in
aid from the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees
(UNRWA).

"As leaders of organizations deeply involved in programs and advocacy
surrounding international humanitarian response, we write to object in the
strongest of terms to the decision to withhold $65 million of the planned United
States contribution to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine
Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA)," said the letter addressed to US Secretary of
State Rex Tillerson, Secretary of Defense James Mattis, US Ambassador to the
United Nations Nikki Haley and National Security Advisor H.R. McMaster.

"We are deeply concerned about the humanitarian consequences of this decision on
life-sustaining assistance to children, women and men in Jordan, Lebanon, Syria,
and the West Bank and Gaza Strip," it said. "Whether it is emergency food aid,
access to primary healthcare, access to primary education, or other critical
support to vulnerable populations, there is no question that these cuts, if
maintained, will have dire consequences."

Even though US officials said the cut in aid was temporary until "reforms" are
introduced to the UN refugee agency, Palestinians nevertheless accused the US of
using the aid to extort political concessions from the Palestinian Authority on
a settlement with Israel, a point the 21 leaders seem to agree with.

"We are particularly alarmed that this decision impacting humanitarian aid to
civilians is not based on any assessment of need, but rather designed both to
punish Palestinian political leaders and to force political concessions from
them. This is simply unacceptable as a rationale for denying civilians
humanitarian assistance, and a dangerous and striking departure from U.S. policy
on international humanitarian assistance," said the letter.

The letter concluded by urging the Trump administration to "reconsider this
unfortunate decision, which we believe undermines critically important values as
well as U.S. leadership around the world."

The letter was signed by leaders of American Friends Service Committee, Oxfam
America, Mennonite Central Committee U.S., Church World Service, Catholic Relief
Services, Jesuit Refugee Service/USA, Norwegian Refugee Council USA, Save the
Children, Women's Refugee Commission, International Rescue Committee, Zakat
Foundation of America, U.S. Committee for Refugees and Immigrants, HIAS, CARE
USA, Amnesty International USA, Refugees International, American Relief Agency
for the Horn of Africa, Global Communities, Mercy Corps, InterAction, and
Islamic Relief U.S.

M.K.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 200


                  Copyright 2018 Palestine News Agency - WAFA
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          Argus Weekend (South Africa)

                                January 21, 2018
                                   E1 Edition

Rebirth of the global Right

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 982 words


During Donald Trump's first 12 months as US president the world has witnessed an
unparalleled partnership blossom between the government of Israel and the global
far right.

The first pillar undergirding this relationship has been the two groups' mutual
hostility to Arabs. But the second plank of their shared platform - no less
important - has been their mutual hatred for Africans.

Although black people have always lived in the Holy Land, they currently
constitute only a small minority of the overall Palestinian population.

Eurocentric Zionist leaders purposefully prevented black Jews from joining them
in Israel, both before and after establishing their sectarian state.

Successive Israeli governments rejected entry to Israelites with black skin -
whether they had preserved the world's oldest known form of Judaism in
Abyssinia, or had reinvented Afrocentric forms of Old Testament worship in
America.

Only after decades of resistance did the Israeli government relent and allow
black Jews from Ethiopia to immigrate to Israel in the mid-1980s and for black
Israelites from America to remain in the country as legal residents from the
mid-1990s. Both groups still face crushing poverty, police brutality and
commonplace racism in Israel.

But the most contentious African immigration to Israel - that of Christian and
Muslim refugees from East Africa - began in the mid-2000s.

At that time, around 1% of the African people fleeing political repression and
horrific violence in their homelands began heading in the direction of Israel.

In recent years the African continent has produced about 6 million refugees, and
those who managed to make it into Israel before the state built a security fence
to prevent the entry of any more, amounted to around 60000.

Those refugees may have made up less than 1% of Israel's population but because
they are black and non-Jews, Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu has
dubbed them a threat to Israel's Jewish "character".

This has long been used to drum up opposition to the mere presence of
Palestinian people and the birth of their babies.

When the Africans first arrived Israel avoided violating the relevant
conventions it co-signed and co-authored in the wake of the Holocaust.

It wouldn't outright deport Sudanese back to Sudan, or Eritreans back to
Eritrea. But it wouldn't grant the refugees any rights either. It just sent them
directly to the slums of south of Tel Aviv, forcing some of Israel's poorest
populations to absorb the Africans all on their own.

For the first few years, Israel ignored all their asylum requests. Eventually it
began to examine these - but only at a snail's pace.

To date, Israel has rejected over 99% of asylum requests, granting status to a
mere 10 Africans out of tens of thousands, making it the Western world's most
miserly country towards refugees by far.

In Europe and North America the vast majority of asylum seekers from Sudan and
Eritrea receive refugee status.

The Netanyahu government proceeded to pressure African refugees to leave the
country by making Israeli society inhospitable to them.

Top rabbis on the government payroll forbade Jews from renting apartments to the
refugees. Lawmakers in the governing coalition smeared the Africans as thieves,
rapists and murderers spreading infectious diseases.

Soon, Israelis were swearing, screaming and spitting at Africans in the streets.
The knife attacks and fire bombs would soon follow.

In 2013 the Netanyahu government began rounding up thousands of African refugees
from the streets of Israeli cities and into its newly built desert detention
centre, the largest in the world.

The government did not make much effort to hide the jail's intended purpose of
breaking the spirits of these African refugees so that they would despair of
ever living normal lives in Israel and grudgingly agree to self-deport back to
the tortures they had originally fled from.

From the Israeli government's perspective, the plan has been successful. In the
past five years over a third of African refugees have been expelled from Israel:
over 20000 men, women and children.

But Netanyahu considers this pace of ethnic cleansing to be insufficient and has
now announced that all African refugees must leave the country within weeks, by
April 1.

The government is already advertising to hire security forces who will round up
the resisters and drag them onto airplanes.

The Israeli government claims that it has secret agreements with multiple
African counties to take in the refugees it deports and to grant them new leases
of life.

But the governments of those countries publicly deny agreeing to any such deals
and refugees forced out of Israel say they were left to their fates, abandoned
in a third African country without any refugee rights; dumped back to square
one.

Many are believed to have since been enslaved and tortured in Libya or drowned
at the bottom of the Mediterranean.

A decade of state-sponsored incitement has helped make ethnically cleansing the
country's remaining 40000 African refugees a popular policy among many Israeli
Jews. Reaping the political rewards of the hatred he seeded, Netanyahu is now
tying his own popularity to the coming expulsion.

What's more, he's now unashamed to boast about it in English, encouraging Europe
and the US to embrace their own xenophobia, bringing cheer to white supremacists
on both sides of the Atlantic.

With Trump in the Oval Office and far-right parties quickly accruing power in
Europe, Netanyahu will continue to crack down on Arabs, Africans and the few
left-wing Jews still resisting Israeli state racism for the foreseeable future.

Sheen is an independent journalist based in Dimona, Israel. His work focuses on
racial tensions and religious extremism within Israeli society. In 2017, Sheen
was named a Human Rights Defender by the Ireland-based Front Line Defenders.
This piece first appeared on The New Arab website.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CZ


                Copyright 2018 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 21, 2018 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Leaving Africa, and Living in Limbo

BYLINE: By MATT KATZ.

Matt Katz (@mattkatz00) is a reporter for WNYC. This article is a collaboration
with PBS NewsHour Weekend and the ''Chasing the Dream'' initiative focusing on
poverty and economic opportunity in America.

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2688 words


Andre Twendele played dead through the early morning, until the sun was over the
forest canopy and the security forces were far enough away.

It was November 2005. He was a law student at the University of Lubumbashi in
the Democratic Republic of Congo, a massive country at the heart of sub-Saharan
Africa best known to Americans for its brutal war crimes and its wealth of
minerals harvested for iPhones. President Joseph Kabila was running the nation
in autocratic fashion, overseeing a perpetual state of regional and civil war,
just as he is today. Mr. Twendele, young and politically minded, had helped lead
a student protest against him.

Mr. Twendele belonged to the Union for Social Democracy and Progress, a party
known for its nonviolence. For this rally, he was head of security. That put him
at the front of the line when, according to Mr. Twendele, Mr. Kabila's men
arrived and began beating and arresting protesters. In jail, Mr. Twendele
befriended one of the guards, and so when the students were marched into the
forest and lined up to be executed, the guard made sure Mr. Twendele was last.
The first seven were killed. Then it was his turn. The guard pretended to shoot
him. He fell and played dead.

When the guards left, ''I tried to touch all of my friends there,'' Mr. Twendele
remembered. ''My friends, they died in my presence,'' he said. ''It's a long
time ago but I have that image, I remember everything. I have that picture in my
head.''

Mr. Twendele was 23 years old. A dozen years later, we sat next to each other on
a park bench near the apartment in Elizabeth, N.J., that he shares with two
other refugees from the Democratic Republic of Congo. It was an early spring
afternoon, and a few joggers passed by, but he looked straight ahead as he told
his story.

''So I start a new life,'' he said. ''And it was not easy.''

Elizabeth is an industrial city just across from Staten Island that has long
been a critical portal for immigrants escaping persecution and searching for
opportunity.

Germans and Irish came in the 19th century; European Jews and then Cubans
followed in the 20th. Since 2015, Elizabeth has settled 646 refugees -- about
half from Syria, and 95 from Congo. The city accepts more refugees than anywhere
else in New Jersey.

Chris Bollwage, the seven-term mayor, traces his own history back 202 years to
German immigrants. ''The city of Elizabeth has been a melting pot, but it hasn't
been a melting pot for the last 25 years -- it's been a melting pot since the
Constitution,'' Mr. Bollwage said. Its residents are said to come from about 50
countries and speak 37 languages.

Mr. Twendele's journey -- 11 years in a refugee camp, then one lucky application
for a visa to the United States -- roughly traces the experiences of the three
million other refugees admitted into the country since 1975. But that path is
now narrowing as President Trump enacts the most severe curtailment of America's
refugee program in a generation.

Last September Mr. Trump set the annual cap for refugee admissions at 45,000,
less than half of the amount that President Obama accepted and the lowest by any
president since the Refugee Act of 1980.

Mr. Twendele was fortunate to get to the U.S. before new refugee restrictions
went into place. But he now lives with a greater burden: Lisette Lukoji, a woman
he met and married in the refugee camp, is still stuck in southeastern Africa.

As a teenager, Lisette Lukoji had a daughter, Lorette, with a boyfriend who went
to war and never returned. She enrolled in school to become a seamstress,
raising Lorette and living at her uncle's house in Lubumbashi. That's where they
came for her. She was 19.

Ms. Lukoji told me her story as we sat side by side on another bench -- this one
in the main room of her home at the Dzaleka Refugee Camp in Malawi, a landlocked
sliver of a country that borders Tanzania, Mozambique and Zambia. The walls were
made of mud, sticks and plastic served as a roof, and an old sweatshirt was used
as the doormat.

''It was around 6 or 7 p.m.,'' Ms. Lukoji remembered of the day she was
arrested. ''I was preparing food in the kitchen. I saw people enter that weren't
wearing uniforms.''

Whether they were militia or military or police, she doesn't know. She recalls
her uncle was aligned with Paul Joseph Mukungubila, a professed Christian
prophet and politician who had run against President Kabila in 2006. As part of
an operation to round up Mr. Mukungubila's supporters, Ms. Lukoji said, her
entire family was detained and imprisoned in separate cells. Lorette was
stripped away from her.

''To this day, I don't know where she is,'' Ms. Lukoji said. If alive, she's 6
years old.

One night in jail three soldiers came to Ms. Lukoji's cell. She said they raped
her, all three of them. Then they handed her 5,000 Congolese francs, about
$3.50, and told her to leave.

''I walked, I don't know how to explain for how long, but I walked for a long
time,'' Ms. Lukoji said. She had neither shoes nor identification. She ended up
in a dusty town bordering Zambia. For days, she lived on the streets, using the
little money she had to buy beignets, mixing the leftover sugar with water for
sustenance.

A Tanzanian truck driver stopped to help her. He smuggled her into Zambia, where
she got on a bus to Malawi, which has hosted refugees for decades despite being
one of the poorest nations on the continent. Ms. Lukoji walked into Dzaleka
barefoot. It took her two weeks to get a pair of shoes, she said. She had to
find someone to take her in, or build her own earthen house. She had to collect
her own food.

''I realized that life would be very complicated there,'' she said. ''Very
complicated, really.''

Dzaleka Refugee Camp was built as a prison camp for about 10,000 people. But for
more than 20 years it has been home to the displaced from Congo, Rwanda, Burundi
and elsewhere, with a population that now exceeds 32,000.

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said that it receives less
than a third of the $18 million it needs to care for Malawi's refugees. Charcoal
is hard to come by, so children ask strangers for empty water bottles, which can
then be burned and used to cook food. Refugees build their own homes, which lack
indoor plumbing, and the camp's one medical clinic mostly serves the neighboring
villagers.

Yet there's life in Dzaleka. People gossip, argue and dance. There are churches,
schools and hair salons. Refugees may be forbidden by the Malawian government
from working, but an underground economy is driven by barter and cash sent from
relatives abroad. Ms. Lukoji sells clothes that she makes, and Mr. Twendele
tutored refugees in his native French and, later, English. He became fluent
while living in the camp because he won admission to a competitive college
equivalency program there. Six days a week for three years he took online
classes through Regis University in Colorado, earning a near 4.0 G.P.A. and a
degree in liberal studies.

Some months after he graduated, Mr. Twendele fell in love. He remembers the day
well: He was playing Scrabble, in French, at a friend's house when he first
caught a glimpse of Ms. Lukoji.

''That girl!'' Mr. Twendele thought. ''I want to talk to her. I don't know where
to start, how can I talk to her?''

They were both devout Christians from the Luba ethnic group. At first, Ms.
Lukoji refused to give Mr. Twendele her phone number. ''I didn't even know
him!'' she said.

Some refugees get cellphones through charities, relatives in the West or the
underground market. When Mr. Twendele finally got her number and called, she
hung up on him. Not interested.

But Mr. Twendele, handsome with a shaved head, was determined.

''He said, 'Even if you refuse, I am the one marrying you, there is no one
besides me,''' Ms. Lukoji said. ''That even if I hung up I would be the one he
marries and the father of my children.''

Ms. Lukoji, short with a bright smile, was astounded at his persistence.
Eventually she warmed to him and they began dating. They'd go for walks
together, maybe buying sweet drinks and stopping to watch soccer games on the
big dirt field near the camp's entrance.

And in May 2015, they married, right there in the camp. Their church helped pay
for his suit. She borrowed a dress. There was a big spread of food: beans, rice,
sweet potatoes, chicken, fish, salad.

''It was like a dream,'' Mr. Twendele said. ''She was very happy that day.''

From the beginning, they both knew they would have to leave the camp, so Mr.
Twendele applied to the U.N.H.C.R. to resettle in a new country.

On Dec. 19, 2012 -- he remembers the date -- Mr. Twendele had his first
interview with a refugee agency representative at the camp. More interviews
followed, including two with officials from the Department of Homeland Security.
In each, Mr. Twendele told his story of escape and provided biographical
information. Refugee officers ran his name against terrorist watch lists. They
took his photograph and his fingerprints.

Finally, on Oct. 22, 2016, nearly four years after the first interview, Mr.
Twendele received the news he had waited so long to hear: He was headed to the
United States.

But it was in the middle of this process that he had met Ms. Lukoji, and he
opted not to change his application midstream to take his marriage into account.
He assumed, correctly, that it would delay the process. He also assumed,
incorrectly, that she could join him in six months or so.

''I was crying like a baby,'' said Mr. Twendele. ''She told me: 'Just go. I know
that you are my husband, and you love me, and will do your best to help me so I
can join you there in the U.S.A.'''

The next day, Mr. Twendele landed at Kennedy International Airport, thrilled by
the flight across the ocean. ''You stay in one place -- you are not moving, but
the airplane is going,'' he said. ''I didn't understand that technology.''

The International Rescue Committee arranged to have Mr. Twendele picked up and
taken to an apartment complex in Elizabeth filled with refugees from Africa, the
Middle East and South America. He would be sharing a room with two Congolese men
in a brick building on the same street where Jared Kushner's grandparents moved
after fleeing the Holocaust.

On the day Mr. Twendele moved in, Mr. Trump was campaigning in North Carolina,
attacking Hillary Clinton and her stance on immigration. ''She wants, in her
words, to have totally open borders, which would destroy America's middle
class,'' Trump said. He called refugees ''Trojan horses.'' Thirteen days later,
he was elected president.

The job of resettling new Americans falls on designated nonprofit agencies like
the International Rescue Committee, which the State Department pays $2,125 per
refugee to cover resettlement expenses, like a security deposit for an apartment
and a few days of food in the refrigerator, as well as administrative costs.

The I.R.C. also holds classes to familiarize refugees with the complexities of
New Jersey Transit and the welfare system. And it connects refugees with
employers, which is exactly how Mr. Twendele got an overnight job at Elizabeth's
True World Foods, a sprawling, bone-cold seafood distributor that abuts the New
Jersey Turnpike at Exit 13A. He earns $11 an hour alongside immigrants from the
Philippines, Liberia, Nigeria and Congo, cutting and packaging fish from all
over the world that becomes sushi at high-end restaurants like Nobu in
Manhattan. Bundled up in ski pants and three jackets, Mr. Twendele handles fish
that he won't eat -- though he loves seafood, he has yet to try sushi.

By about 4 a.m., in the middle of his shift, Mr. Twendele was in the break room.
He was on his phone, trying to reach his wife on WhatsApp, which allows free
international calls. He used his first True World Food paychecks to buy his wife
a new phone. They speak multiple times a day, and for hours at a time on the
weekends.

''When I speak to him, I feel like he is here, even though he is not here,'' Ms.
Lukoji said from the bench in the refugee camp. She had just spoken with Mr.
Twendele and was still smiling. ''He loves me, and he tells me this on the
phone. Like today he said, 'I love you, I adore you, you are the mother of my
children.'''

Nearly 50,000 Congolese refugees have resettled in the United States since 2010.
More than 2,500 moved to New York, most ending up in Buffalo and Syracuse.
Almost all Congolese refugees in New Jersey are in Elizabeth, the second largest
refugee group behind Syrians, and through word of mouth an unofficial Congolese
community group has sprung up.

Last July 1, I joined Mr. Twendele at the group's Congolese Independence Day
party in a Korean church above a Dollar Store in downtown Elizabeth. Mr.
Twendele marked his country's 1960 victory over the Belgian colonial rulers by
eating traditional African fufu with new friends who spoke his language. They
prayed, danced and drank (Sprite for Mr. Twendele; Heineken for his roommates).

At the party, Mr. Twendele opened his cellphone. His wife had sent a photo. Over
the image, using the English version of his first name, Ms. Lukoji wrote: ''I
love my husband Andrew forever.''

Elizabeth, with its Colombian bakeries and kosher restaurants, is a model for
those who believe that the United States should be a haven during what is now
considered the worst refugee crisis since World War II -- there are more than 22
million people designated as refugees worldwide, with a notable spike in the
last five years.

But Elizabeth is also home to a privately run immigrant detention center, filled
with people accused of overstaying their visas or smuggling themselves over the
Mexican border. Elizabeth may be their last stop before deportation.

And near the city's train station sits a garbage can that serves as a reminder
of the risk of terrorist attacks by disaffected immigrants. In September 2016, a
month before Mr. Twendele arrived, prosecutors say an Afghanistan-born man named
Ahmad Khan Rahami stashed six pipe bombs in a garbage can. Mr. Rahami was a
naturalized American citizen who lived above his father's First American Fried
Chicken restaurant in Elizabeth. The Elizabeth bombs were found before they went
off, but Mr. Rahami is now awaiting sentencing for the other explosives he
planted that weekend that actually blew up -- in Manhattan's Chelsea
neighborhood, injuring 31.

Mr. Trump, who was the Republican nominee for president then, blamed the attacks
on the United States' ''extremely open immigration system, which fails to
properly vet and screen the individuals and families coming into our country.''
And yet since the current vetting system was put into place in 1980, no refugee
has committed a deadly terrorist attack on American soil.

Mr. Trump's changes to the refugee program have directly affected Ms. Lukoji.
His administration suspended the visa program for so-called following-to-join
refugees, which was her fastest path to reuniting with her husband. A federal
judge has since lifted the suspension, but more stringent security requirements
for the visa are expected, which could further delay her application.

Ms. Lukoji does have another option. Mr. Twendele has filed an ''affidavit of
relationship'' to certify their marriage and initiate the vetting process, but
his application has yet to be reviewed, according to advocates working on the
case.

Ms. Lukoji longs to leave not just to reunite with her husband; her health
depends on it, too. She has blocked fallopian tubes, a painful condition that
has left her infertile, according to a gynecologist whom she sees in Lilongwe,
Malawi's capital. Their hopes for children -- Mr. Twendele wants as many as
eight -- now rests in the United States, with in vitro fertilization.

He is 35. She is 26. He calls this ''the beginning of life.''

One day in his apartment, Mr. Twendele expressed confidence, as he often does,
in the future.

''I know that one day I will be with myself, my wife, my family --
comfortable,'' he said.

Not long after, his phone buzzed. The name popped up: Mon cheri, my sweetheart.




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/19/nyregion/refugee
-elizabeth-congo-trump.html

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Andre Twendele, 35, a refugee from the Democratic Republic of
Congo, at work at True World Foods in Elizabeth, N.J., where he packs fish. He
moved to the United States in 2016. His wife is in a refugee camp in Malawi,
facing immigration limits. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD FOR WNYC NEWS) (MB1)
Andre Twendele, top, in his apartment in Elizabeth, N.J., watching soccer with
Jean-Paul and Dianna Funzule, neighbors who are fellow Congolese refugees. A
wedding picture of Mr. Twendele and his wife, Lisette Lukoji, who remains at
Dzaleka Refugee Camp in Malawi, above. He is confident they will be reunited
someday despite President Trump's actions to sharply curtain America's refugee
program. Below, Mr. Twendele attended Christmas Eve services at the Union
Baptist Church in Elizabeth. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD FOR WNYC NEWS
 ALESSANDRO PAVONE/PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND) (MB6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2018 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                           January 20, 2018 Saturday
                                  Main Edition

Congolese refugee family reunited They're mostly together again after many years
in Uganda camp

BYLINE: Nathanael Massey The Spokesman-Review

SECTION: A; Pg. 001

LENGTH: 808 words


As a small crowd gathered at  Spokane International Airport on Friday evening,
sisters Florance Mawazo and Mahirwe Solange Kobwa hung near the back, somehow
inconspicuous despite the bright batik of their clothing. They bobbed to the
rhythm of the nearby Neema Youth  Choir, clearly enjoying the moment, but still
it was impossible to disguise the current of nervous tension running between
them.

But when, at the far end of an airport corridor, a woman in a pink dress and a
young man in a gray T-shirt appeared among a crowd of deplaning passengers, that
tension snapped like a thread. Solange Kobwa dashed forward, outrunning the
crowd, the cameras and even her own shoes to sweep her long-awaited family
members into her arms. Mawazo was close on her heels.

For the past year, the two sisters - refugees from the Democratic Republic of
Congo who spent nearly two decades in a  United Nations camp in Uganda - had
been waiting for reunification with their mother, Nyirasafari Madisiyoma, and
brother, Sheba Shabagabo. Though initially approved, the process was delayed for
close to a year, first by procedural issues and then by the Trump
administration's 120-day freeze of refugee admissions. That freeze expired in
October, but remains in effect for 11 countries, and all new refugees face
stronger vetting measures.

Another brother remains in the camp, awaiting clearance from the U.N. High
Commissioner for Refugees and the U.S. State Department. The family is hopeful
they will be able to see him soon.

In many ways, despite the events that drove them to flee first the D.R.C. and
then Africa entirely, the family is lucky to be back together. "For the rest of
the year, the only people we expect to welcome are direct family members" of
previously settled refugees, said Mark Finney, director of World Relief Spokane.

Previously, roughly half of refugees resettled in the Spokane area came to join
their families. That local decline follows a larger trend nationally - an
estimate by the PEW Research Center found that, due to last year's refugee
freeze and subsequent stricter vetting, the number of refugees taken in by the
United States in fiscal year 2017 was likely to be cut by more than half, from
anticipated levels of 110,000 to roughly 50,000.

Along with their mother, the sisters and brothers fled the D.R.C. in 1999, after
their father was killed in a political revolution. They found shelter in
neighboring Uganda, in the U.N. refugee camp, and there they remained for the
next 17 years while their application for asylum was reviewed. "That's actually
close to the average time people wait in these situations," Finney said.

As it did with the two sisters, the organization will now help Shabagabo and
Madisiyoma make a place for themselves in Spokane, assisting them in finding
housing and jobs, coaching them in English and connecting them with volunteers
from the community who lend advice, companionship and even help navigating
Spokane's wintry roads.

But that work has become more challenging as hostility toward foreign nationals
- particularly those from war-torn regions in the Middle East and Africa, where
hundreds of thousands flee conflict and death - has manifested at the highest
levels of government, Finney said.

"To me, it's heartbreaking," Finney said, referring specifically to remarks by
President Trump last week that the U.S. should no longer welcome migrants from a
number of predominantly black nations - nations he referred to, according to
multiple sources, as "shithole countries."

"I've been actively communicating with a number of friends from Africa, and for
them it's been deeply painful to feel belittled by somebody in that level of
authority, whether that was his intent or not," Finney said.

Finney said his organization's primary motivation in helping others stems from
its members' evangelical Christian faith, and the Bible's lessons to love each
other regardless of creed or country. But there are other, more earthly reasons
to help those fleeing conflict, he added - principally, because it grows
goodwill toward the United States internationally.

"We want people to understand how amazing America is," he said. "We want to
share that story with the rest of the world."

And while reading about negative attitudes or hostile policies in a news story
may hurt that message in the short term, he said, "It's another thing when
someone is there to welcome you at the airport, takes you home and makes you
dinner."

As that welcome went on Friday, amid the choir's infectious rhythms and many wet
eyes, Madisiyoma moved to the side of the crowd, away from the well-wishers and
extended hands. Spotting a nearby chair, she slipped down onto it, obviously
exhausted but happy.

And no wonder. It had been a long, long journey.

Contact the writer:

(509)459-5420

NathanaelM@SPOKESMAN.com

Reunion

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2018 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                              103 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                        St. Joseph News-Press (Missouri)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           January 20, 2018 Saturday

African students react to Trump's remarks

BYLINE: Jessica Kopp, St. Joseph News-Press, Mo.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 726 words


Jan. 20--After President Donald Trump allegedly referred to African countries
and Haiti with derogatory terms, the outrage was instantaneous.

Although Trump denies having used an expletive -- instead saying the language he
used was "tough" -- the backlash from people of those countries was swift.
African students at Missouri Western State University did not take to the
streets in protest like some of their countrymen but still expressed their
disappointment.

Naftal Naftal, a 42-year-old technical communication student from Mozambique,
said hearing those comments stung.

"Unfortunately, it was really hurtful to hear something like that," Naftal said.
"Those were hurting words."

Political science major Engoma Fataki felt that hateful comments don't reflect
the American people he knows.

"They're very nice," Fataki said. "They have compassion and they're very
sympathetic with other people. That's how we're supposed to live."

Twenty-two-year-old Fataki came to the United States when he was 18 and had been
living as a refugee for almost 17 years. He was born in the Democratic Republic
of Congo but left with his family when he was just a baby -- stays in Tanzania,
Zambia and Malawi followed, until the family landed in Mozambique, where he
spent the rest of his childhood in a refugee camp.

The visa process was long and complicated and Fataki counts himself lucky that
his family had a chance many others can only dream of. Still, when he came to
America, he was surprised: Columbia, Missouri, didn't exactly look like a
Hollywood movie set and skyscrapers were nowhere to be seen, either.

"The media and movies portray America like a paradise on earth, but when I came
here I was like, 'Wait a minute, there's actually a lot of places I can compare
to places in Africa'," Fataki said. "And there are some places in Africa that
are more beautiful than some places in America."

Naftal said his fellow countrymen have a similar perception of the United States
.

"They see America as a piece of heaven. When someone says they've been to the
USA they feel like, 'Oh yes, this person has accomplished a lot because they
have been to the United States,'" Naftal said.

Naftal already has a degree in theology and came to the United States to advance
his career because "it's always good to dream higher."

"I wouldn't say I never feel satisfied, but sometimes it's difficult to feel
satisfied with what I have, especially when it comes to academy," Naftal said.

Naftal brought his wife and children with him to St. Joseph and although they
are enjoying their life here, he plans to move his family back to Mozambique
once he graduates. Above all, he misses the sense of close-knit community he
felt back home.

"You know who your neighbor is, you know what's happening in the vicinity, which
is hard to find out here," Naftal said. "We are taught that your first relative
is your neighbor, not the people you are born with like your brothers and
sister, because they might live far away. Your neighbors are the first people to
know what's going on with you."

Naftal and Fataki both said that just like Africans might envision America, as
one massive New York City, Americans have their own misconceptions about Africa.

"When it comes to Africa, they think it's one country. It's not, it's an entire
continent. I don't think they do it on purpose, they just don't know what
they're talking about," Fataki said.

"They look at Africa as one place, one spot which is still kind of undeveloped,
full of wild animals and people mingling with those wild animals. That is one of
the biggest misconceptions Americans have about Africa," Naftal said.

While Naftal realizes it is not feasible for every American to travel to Africa
and learn about the continent first-hand, he does wish that people would be
better educated. However, there is one American he thinks would really benefit
from a trip to Africa.

"President Trump should take some time to go to Africa and spend two weeks, not
as head of state, but as a citizen, as a person, as a human being, to try to
live the way the people live."

Jessica Kopp can be reached at jessica.kopp@newspressnow.com or you can follow
her on Twitter: @NPNOWKopp

___ (c)2018 the St. Joseph News-Press (St. Joseph, Mo.) Visit the St. Joseph
News-Press (St. Joseph, Mo.) at www.newspressnow.com/index.html Distributed by
Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20180120-JM-African-students-react-to-Trump-s-remarks-0120-20180120

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JM


                      Copyright 2018 St. Joseph News-Press


                              104 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 7, 2018 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

A stealth attack on national identity

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 594 words


When President Trump capped the number of refugee admissions at 45,000 over the
fiscal year that began in October - just over half the number admitted in
President Barack Obama's last full year in office - it was seen as a setback for
hard-liners such as Stephen Miller, the White House's domestic policy chief, who
wanted to set the limit drastically lower, possibly even at zero, and a victory
for moderates in the Pentagon, State Department and elsewhere. That
interpretation now looks flawed.

By means of an array of bureaucratic maneuvers, plus a security review  of key
countries ordered by Mr. Trump in late October, refugee admissions have
plummeted to levels unseen in modern memory - and, for the first quarter of the
current fiscal year, just a fifth the roughly 25,000 admitted in the same period
a year earlier. At current trends, advocates say, the United States may grant
entry to fewer than half the 45,000 refugees specified by Mr. Trump's limit; if
so, it would be the lowest number   since the current program was established in
1980.

That would render obsolete the assertion still in place on the  website of the
State Department's Bureau of Population, Refugees and Migration that boasts that
America welcomes almost two-thirds of refugees settled in third countries, "more
than all other resettlement countries combined." And it would be a milestone in
the nation's ongoing retreat from its role as a great power prepared to grapple
with the world's biggest flood of refugees since World War II.

The State Department cautions that the pace of refugee admissions may quicken
this year. However, bureaucratic gears already set in motion are likely to
stanch the flow of the world's most beleaguered people to U.S. shores for the
foreseeable future.

A critical factor constricting admissions is Mr. Trump's 90-day
review  of refugees from 11 mainly Muslim countries, most in the Middle East and
Africa, which together have generated more than 40 percent of all those admitted
to the United States in each of the past three years, according to an analysis
by Reuters. (Those same countries also account for roughly 60 percent of
potential future refugees in the pipeline - those awaiting interviews with U.S.
officials or various clearances for admission, according to refugee advocates.)

The review, though partially blocked by a federal judge last month, effectively
choked off the refugee flow by also imposing burdensome new requirements to what
was already an arduous security vetting process - even though refugees have been
responsible for few terrorist attacks in the United States and Europe. A
knock-on effect was that in response to uncertainty and State Department
warnings about dwindling refugee admissions, independent contractors that run
several hundred refugee resettlement offices nationwide are downsizing, thereby
shrinking absorptive capacity.

At the same time, Homeland Security cut its deployment of interviewers who fan
out through strife-ridden regions of the world to interview prospective
refugees. In some cases, the admissions slowdown meant that one or another of a
welter of required clearances from government agencies has expired for refugees
awaiting final permission to enter the United States.

The administration's tactics amount to a stealth war on a program that has
embodied America's compassion and global leadership. It is an attack on national
identity of a piece with Mr. Trump's hostility to other forms of immigration and
a symbol of the country's withdrawal from the world stage.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2018 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                            Library Journal Reviews

                                January 1, 2018

The Newcomers: Finding Refuge, Friendship, and Hope in an American Classroom

BYLINE: Rebekah Kati

SECTION: REVIEW; Social Sciences;  Vol. 143 No. 1

LENGTH: 243 words


Thorpe, Helen. The Newcomers: Finding Refuge, Friendship, and Hope in an
American Classroom. Scribner. Nov. 2017. 416p. notes. ISBN 9781501159091. $28;
ebk. ISBN 9781501159114. SOC SCI

Thorpe (Soldier Girls) spent a year observing high school students in an
English-language acquisition class at South High School in Denver. Profiled
students are primarily refugees from Africa, the Middle East, Central America,
and Asia, and have experienced traumatic events on their journey to Colorado.
The first portion of the book chronicles the challenges that the students
experience as they learn a new, difficult language. As the year goes on, Thorpe
gains the trust of several students and regularly visits two families from Iraq
and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. After becoming close to the students'
families, Thorpe begins to understand their personal lives, including struggles
to find a job and acclimate to life in the United States. The 2016 presidential
election and the country's increasing hostility toward refugees hovers in the
background; Thorpe reflects on how the experience has personally affected her,
ending with a heartbreaking description of how Trump's policies have impacted
her subjects. VERDICT Highly recommended for readers hoping to learn more about
the refugee experience in the United States. A heartfelt examination of student
and family life that speaks to the human experience.--Rebekah Kati, Univ. of
North Carolina, Chapel Hill

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                      Copyright 2018 Library Journals, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 28, 2017 Thursday

Trump Should Clobber This UN Agency

BYLINE: , , richard and goldberg

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 715 words


As the UN General Assembly voted to reject America's recognition of Jerusalem as
the capital of Israel, US Ambassador Nikki Haley issued a stern warning: We'll
remember this the next time you come calling for more hard-earned American
taxpayer dollars. Most nation-states called her bluff, leaving many to wonder
what comes next.

If President Trump wants to use his financial leverage at the United Nations to
strike at the heart of the anti-America, anti-Israel institutional
infrastructure, he should look no further than the agency responsible for
Palestinian refugees: the United Nations Relief and Works Agency.

By most definitions, refugees are those forced to flee their country because of
persecution, war or violence. Nearly every refugee in the world is cared for by
the United Nations High Commissioner on Refugees, whose ultimate goal is
repatriation, resettlement and integration. The exception? Palestinian refugees.

Arab states insisted on a different definition for Palestinian-Arab refugees of
the Israeli War of Independence - and a different agency to care for them.
Today, millions of people are referred to as "Palestinian refugees" even though
the only home they, and in many cases even their parents and grandparents, have
ever known is either a refugee camp or an Arab host nation like Jordan.

Rather than use the billions of dollars of international assistance provided
since 1950 to resettle and integrate Palestinian-Arab refugees - just as Israel
successfully resettled and integrated Jewish refugees from the Middle East,
North Africa and the Soviet Union - UNRWA's mandate has always been to keep
Palestinians as perpetual refugees.

In truth, it's not a refugee agency but a welfare agency, which keeps millions
of people in a permanent state of dependency and poverty - all while feeding
Palestinians an empty promise that one day they'll settle in Israel.

Yet the United States remains the agency's largest single-state donor.

Unfortunately, every time Congress tries to expose the fiction of "the
Palestinian refugee," it runs up against a State Department fiercely protective
of UNRWA and its mythology. In 2012, an amendment to the annual State-Foreign
Operations appropriations bill asked the Obama administration a simple question:
How many of the Palestinians currently served by UNRWA were personally displaced
by the 1948 war?

The point was to confirm to the world that there are only a relative handful of
true Palestinian refugees still alive who may be entitled to repatriation or
compensation. The rest, the descendants, are impoverished Palestinian-Arabs who
will either become citizens of a future Palestinian state or be absorbed by Arab
host nations.

While an official report was eventually sent to Congress, its contents were kept
classified to deny the American public from knowing the truth. The Trump
administration can take a giant step toward Middle East peace by declassifying
that report, updating it and formally adopting a definition for Palestinian
refugees that makes a clear distinction between refugees displaced by the 1948
war and their descendants.

The administration and Congress should work together to change the way America
funds UNRWA, making clear to taxpayers how much money goes to refugee assistance
and how much subsidizes a culture of welfare and terrorism.

Future funding of the agency should be tied to a clear mission of resettlement,
integration and economic self-sufficiency. A timetable and work plan should be
established for UNRWA's integration into UNHCR. Conditions should be set in the
annual foreign bill, giving Haley the leverage she needs to force changes in the
agency's next biennium budget.

Nations of the world showed their true colors last week. Far too many cared more
about castigating Israel than their relationship with the United States.

UNRWA is a case study in the institutional bias that America helps fund at the
United Nations. Shining a light on this agency and making it a centerpiece of a
new reform agenda would be a victory for American taxpayers and a defeat for the
international movement to castigate our closest ally in the Middle East.

Richard Goldberg is a senior advisor at the Foundation for Defense of
Democracies.

@rich_goldberg

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                               Al-Arab (English)

                               December 24, 2017

For Syrian refugees, a dire predicament unlikely to improve in the coming year

BYLINE: The Arab Weekly Samar Kadi

LENGTH: 613  words


Unlikely odds. A Syrian refugee boy stands in front of his family tent at a
makeshift camp for refugees and migrants on the island of Lesbos in Greece, on
November 30. (Reuters)  The Arab Weekly
Samar Kadi

Beirut- The intensity of the war in Syria may have subsided in 2017 with the
near defeat of the Islamic State (ISIS) and agreement to establish
"de-escalation zones" in parts of the country. However, a sustainable po­litical
settlement seems out of reach for now.

That means not much has changed for millions of Syrians who have lived in dire
conditions in refugee camps in neighbouring countries, in­cluding Lebanon,
Jordan and Turkey, since the onset of the conflict nearly seven years ago.
Though some refu­gees returned to Syria this year, most have not budged as they
await a final peace settlement that ensures their safe and sustainable
repatriation.

International Organisation for Mi­gration (IOM) said approximately 600,000
Syrians returned home in the first seven months of 2017; nearly all of whom were
displaced within Syria. The rest, more than 31,000, returned from Turkey,
Lebanon, Jor­dan and Iraq.

However, the rate of dis­placement in 2017 was high­er than the rate of
returnees. More than 800,000 people were displaced during the first seven months
-- many for the second or third time -- and more than 6 million are displaced
within the country.

The number of asylum seekers hoping to be resettled permanently in third
countries has generally been increasing, indicating that many ref­ugees have
little hope of returning to Syria safely anytime soon.

"The caseload is on the increasing side, though it has decreased slightly in the
second half of 2017," said Ah­mad al-Iraqi, IOM's communication officer in
Beirut. "IOM has resettled 80,000 refugees in Lebanon in the past three years,
with 95% [of them] Syrians. The rest included Iraqis and Sudanese."

Canada, the United States, Aus­tralia and Germany have been the main recipients
of asylum seekers although "new countries, mainly in Latin America, have come
forward like Chile," al-Iraqi added.

The resettlement process can take up to two years to be completed, except for in
severe "humanitarian cases."

In 2016, the IOM resettled 25,000 Syrian refugees from the Middle East and
Africa to Canada. An additional 1,000 Syrians from Jordan were re­settled in
Europe and 600 -- 47% of them children -- from Egypt to Can­ada.

Jordan is host to approximately 657,000 registered Syrian refugees, the highest
per person after Leba­non, which is home to 1.1 million registered refugees. In
addition to the Syrians, Jordan has 450,000- 500,000 Iraqi refugees. Turkey
re­mains the largest recipient with more than 3 million Syrian refugees.

Refugees overstaying and the pres­sure they place on public services,
infrastructure and the job market have sparked calls in Lebanon for them to be
repatriated. Acknowledg­ing the implications of the refugee crisis, Lebanese
Prime Minister Saad Hariri called on the international community to ensure their
secure and voluntary return.

Lebanon hosts about 450,000 Pal­estinian refugees who are registered with the
United Nations. They began flowing into the country more than 60 years ago.

"Any political process in Syria has to include a solution for the refugees. We
cannot have peace in Syria with­out bringing back between 5 million to 7 million
refugees scattered around the world," Hariri said at a conference hosted by the
Carnegie Middle East Centre.

With no sustainable political set­tlement in sight, the refugees' suffer­ing is
not expected to end soon.

Alarab Online.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/61/172/75/151396984155.jpg



http://imgs.syndigate.info/61/172/75/151396984343.png



LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 172


                         Copyright 2017 Alarab Online.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                             Sunday Nation (Kenya)

                               December 17, 2017

KAGWANJA: Refugee youth bulge a ticking time bomb that must be addressed

BYLINE: PETER KAGWANJA

LENGTH: 1122  words


Today, 65.6 million people are forcibly displaced from their homes.


"We live in the age of the refugee, the age of the exile", said the Argentinian
intellectual Ariel Dorfman. Today, 65.6 million people are forcibly displaced
from their homes, 22.5 million (50 pc) of them being young people under the age
of 18 years.
Over 30 million (46 pc) of the world's victims of forced displacement are in
Africa. And nearly a third of these are displaced in the Horn of Africa,
including 3 million refugees and 4.5 million internally displaced persons
(IDPs).
Refugees are part and parcel of the larger problem of the youth bulge,
undeniably a ticking time bomb that Africa must address. An estimated 56 pc of
the 489,000 refugees in Kenya are young people under the age of 18.


We are rightly reminded that a bundle of belongings isn't the only thing a
refugee brings to the new country of asylum. Great men and women like Illan Omar
were once refugees.
DADAAB CAMP
In 1991, at the age of nine, Ilan and her family took shelter in Kenya's Dadaab
camp before migrating to the United States in 1995. On January 3, 2017, she
assumed office as America's first-ever elected Somali-American Muslim member of
the Minnesota House of Representatives.
President Barack Obama may be right when he argues that "A nation ringed by
walls will only imprison itself".  But surging right wing populism and "fortress
West" (anti-migration laws and policies and high walls) have shrunk the asylum
and limited opportunities for refugee resettlement to wealthier countries of
Europe and North America.
Despite this, the need to include refugees in development underpins the
post-2015 Sustainable Development Goals (SSGs), especially Goal 4 on refugees.
Furthermore, humanitarian- development nexus is the core of the New York
Declaration on Refugees and Migrations as well as its Comprehensive Refugee
Response Framework (CRRF), adopted in September 2016, as a model of durable
solution to the global refugee crisis.
DEVELOPMENT
However, the real game changer is the development-turn in the thinking about
regionalism and pan-Africanism, championed by former South African President
Thabo Mbeki and Ethiopia's late Prime Minister Meles Zenawi at the dawn of the
new millennium.
Kenya's President Uhuru Kenyatta has taken the mantle of the new development
thinking now propelling pan-Africanism, redefining citizenship and transforming
refuge.
"The free movement of people on our continent has always been a cornerstone of
Pan-African brotherhood and fraternity", he proclaimed during his inauguration
address on November 28, 2017.

Kenyatta has committed his country to building a "more integrated" and less
balkanised Africa to enhance mutual security and promote development.
Citizens of African countries can now obtain visas at any port of entry to
Kenya. And citizens from the six East African Community (EAC) member states only
need identity cards to access the benefits of citizenship in Kenya!
SOLUTIONS
Today the lynchpin of developmental pan-Africanism is the African Union's Agenda
2063, adopted in 2013, which is inspiring a spectrum of homegrown solutions,
strategies and frameworks to advance refugee welfare and integration.
On March 25, 2017, Kenyatta hosted the Special Summit of the Inter-Governmental
Authority on Development (IGAD) on Durable Solutions for Somali Refugees and
Reintegration of Returnees, which agreed upon the Nairobi Declaration and its
Plan of Action as a new regional deal for over 7.5 million victims of forced
displacement in the IGAD region, especially Somalis.
When the Protocol on Free Movement of Persons in the IGAD Region finally comes
into force, refugees will readily access the benefits of the new spirit of
"cosmopolitan citizenship".
"Education", said Nelson Mandela, "is the most powerful weapon which you can use
to change the world".  Education has always been one of the fundamental human
rights provided for in all core documents, including the 1951 Convention
Relating to the Status of Refugees; the 1969 African Union Convention Governing
the Specific Aspects of Refugee Problems in Africa; the 1989 Convention on the
Right of the Child and the African Charter on the Rights and Welfare of the
Child.
NAIROBI DECLARATION
Both Agenda 2063 and the Nairobi Declaration (2017) give pride of place to
education as a powerful tool to involve refugees in the development process.
It was the subject of the Regional Ministerial Conference on Refugee Education,
the first-ever thematic meeting on refugees in the IGAD region, jointly convened
by Djibouti, IGAD and international partners from December 12-14.
The conference highlighted the acute problem of access to education
opportunities by refugee children and youths in Africa.
Here, refugees are five times more likely to be out of school than the global
average. A recent UNHCR report on education entitled Left Behind: Refugee
Education in Crisis (September, 2017) reveals that only 61 pc of refugee
children in Africa have access to primary education, way below the 91 pc global
average.
Even more worrying is the low level of refugee enrolment in secondary school,
which stands at 23 pc compared with 84 pc globally.
EDUCATION
Kenya has one of the region's highest levels of refugee enrolment in education.
As of December 2017, of Kenya's 488,698 camp-based refugees in Kakuma and Dadaab
camps as well as the Kalobeyei Settlement, 166,946 or 84 pc of all refugee
children in Kenya, are enrolled in School. The vast majority of them are in the
primary and secondary school-going age bracket of 6-18 years. Plans are under
way to establish a technical institute in Dadaab, providing access to refugees.

"There are 16 pre-primary, 24 primary and six secondary schools in Kakuma and
Kalobeyei settlement with a total enrolment of 94,500 learners", the Principal
Secretary for Education, Dr Belio Kipsang, told the Djibouti conference, adding:
"The Dadaab refugee complex has 32 pre-primary, 32 primary and seven secondary
schools with a total population of 70,405 learners".
Turning the refugee youth bulge from a ticking time bomb to a development
opportunity requires commitment to the spirit of responsibility sharing and
investment in quality education, skills training and access.
Prof Kagwanja is IGAD's Consultant on the Implementation of the Nairobi
Declaration on Durable Solutions for Refugees and Reintegration of Returnees in
Somalia. This article is based on his participation in the "Regional Ministerial
Conference on Refugee Education", Djibouti, 12-14, 2017.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/338/1383/34/151345128096.jpg

Refugees walk away after receiving food at Kakuma camp on June 7, 2017.  PHOTO |
JEFF ANGOTE | NATION MEDIA GROUP

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1383


                       Copyright 2017 Nation Media Group
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                           December 16, 2017 Saturday

LETTER TO THE EDITOR: Trump's 'America Alone' migration policy is
counterproductive

BYLINE: The Lowell Sun

SECTION: LETTER TO THE EDITOR; Editorials

LENGTH: 456 words


Recently, the Trump administration announced it was withdrawing from the United
Nations Global Compact on Migration and Refugees. UN Ambassador Nikki Haley
cited "numerous provisions that are inconsistent with U.S. immigration and
refugee policies and the Trump administration's immigration principles," adding
that "our decisions on immigration policies must always be made by Americans and
Americans alone."

This is unfortunate. It is estimated that there will be upwards of 2 billion
refugees worldwide just from the effects of climate change, without counting
those who are fleeing war, conflict and ethnic cleansing.

While the Trump administration may wrongly believe that two oceans will serve as
an effective "wall" against the pressure of displaced humanity, clearly this
will not work for our European allies, nor even for Australia. By withdrawing
from the migration agreement, the administration is pursuing not an "America
First" policy, but is creating an "America Alone" reality.

Nearly 30 percent of Lowell's population is from countries of Southeast Asia,
particularly those along the Mekong River and its delta. These countries --
Vietnam, Cambodia, Thailand -- are among those which will be the most
dramatically affected by climate change in the world. The UN Panel on Climate
Change estimates 10 million refugees from Vietnam alone.

Lowell is also home to a substantial population from countries of sub-Saharan
Africa; again, one of the areas that will see the greatest impacts of climate
change.

So we can expect climate change to directly affect the lives and families of
thousands of Lowell residents in the coming near future.

Regardless of what the administration may hope, neither the Atlantic nor Pacific
oceans can or should isolate us from the suffering. As Americans of every
background and ethnicity, and particularly as Lowellians, it is our common
heritage to welcome the immigrant and the refugee whether they are fleeing war,
famine, slavery or climate change. It's who we are. By withdrawing from the UN
Global Compact, the U.S. is denying itself the very international mechanisms
needed to both alleviate the suffering of our fellow human beings and to
implement some measure of control over the process.

In the meantime, the Lowell City Council and the state of Massachusetts must
take climate change seriously, and act with all expediency to reduce the use of
fossil fuels that are worsening climate change daily.

Climate change is not an abstraction; its effects are impacting the most
vulnerable populations of the Mekong and others now, today, and it will only get
worse. The families of those people live here in Lowell. It is our
responsibility to help them in every way we can.

STEPHEN MALAGODI

Lowell

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            December 11, 2017 Monday

PSI Denounces Decision by United States Trump Administration to Pull Out of the
UN Global Compact on Migration

LENGTH: 713  words



UK: Public Services International, has issued the following news release:


 As delegates from United Nations Member States, international organisations,
civil society organisations and various stakeholders gather in Puerto Vallarta,
Mexico for the Stocktaking Meeting to prepare for the negotiations for the UN
Global Compact for Migration in 2018, the Trump Administration announces that
the United States is pulling out of the process.


    According to Niki Haley, US Ambassador to the United Nations, "While the US
is proud of its leadership on migration and refugee issues, the global approach
is not compatible with the nation's sovereignty." She said that Trump made the
decision, and emphasized that Americans should determine their own policies on
immigration. "Our decisions on immigration policies must always be made by
Americans and Americans alone. We will decide how best to control our borders
and who will be allowed to enter our country," she says.
Public Services International (PSI) and its US affiliates denounce such a
shameful and callous decision.
In 2016, in response to the humanitarian crisis resulting from conflicts and
instability in Africa and the war in Syria, the United Nations convened a
High-Level Summit on Large Flows of Migrants and Refugees. The summit came up
with the New York Declaration for Migrants and Refugees, committing UN Member
States to adopt a Global Compact on Migration and a Global Compact on Refugees
by 2018.
    "The Compacts represent the global commitment to alleviate human suffering
and to save lives of migrants and refugees taking dangerous routes to seek
protection and to find work," says Rosa Pavanelli, Public Services International
General Secretary. "What we have right now are 65.6 million people forcibly
displaced by conflicts, violence and human rights violations. The numbers are
increasing, with more than half being displaced are children, and about half are
female," says Pavanelli.
    "This is about fundamental human rights and UN Member States' obligation to
uphold these rights. While States have sovereignty over their borders, they also
have the sovereign right to respect, protect and fulfil human rights. We cannot
allow a powerful and rich country such as the US to turn its back on human
rights and humanitarian obligations. It is completely shameful," says Pavanelli.

In an issued statement, the President of the UN General Assembly, Miroslav
Lajcák, regretted the US decision, and reminds that no one nation can manage
international migration alone.
    PSI affiliate, the American Federation of Teachers' (AFT) President Randi
Weingarten says, "The withdrawal of the United States from the negotiations over
the United Nations Global Compact on Migration--a forum designed to bring the
world together to protect the rights of refugees and migrants--is cruel and
counterproductive. The Trump administration's decision to abandon those seeking
a better life, to score narrow political points, disserves America and our
legacy as a nation of immigrants. Further, it is counterproductive, as refugee
and migration issues will still be addressed globally but without America's
ingenuity or leadership in exchanging ideas and forging rational, coordinated
responses. We must invest our time and effort in collective solutions, not
blindside our friends and allies at the first sign of stress."
    "The migration compact negotiations should proceed with or without the
participation of the United States. The AFT will continue to urge that our
government take a more responsible approach to our shared future," adds
Weingarten.
    Another PSI affiliate, the Service Employees International Union's (SEIU)
President Mary Kay Henry says, "This decision is yet another callous and cruel
act by the Trump Administration that undermines our historic commitment to human
rights and devalues immigrants and their families, diminishing the American
Dream."
PSI, together with other Global Union Federations, participates in the processes
around the Global Compacts. Between February and July 2018, States will
negotiate the text of the Global Compact on Migration in UN New York.

 In case of any query regarding this article or other content please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 4, 2017 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Quits Talks on a U.N. Migration Pact, Saying It Infringes on Sovereignty

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE; Somini Sengupta contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 914 words


The Trump administration has quit participating in talks on a proposed United
Nations agreement to improve ways of handling global flows of migrants and
refugees, describing it as a subversion of American sovereignty.

The administration's decision to renounce the talks on the agreement, the Global
Compact on Migration, was announced in a statement Saturday night by the United
States Mission to the United Nations, surprising migrant-rights advocates who
called it shortsighted and counterproductive.

Many said the decision appeared to reinforce what they called an atmosphere of
renewed American isolationism and exceptionalism at the United Nations in the
first year of the Trump White House.

Trump administration officials said the decision was not an American repudiation
of cooperation with other countries but a rightful defense of the government's
power to determine who can enter the United States.

''While we will continue to engage on a number of fronts at the United Nations,
in this case, we simply cannot in good faith support a process that could
undermine the sovereign right of the United States to enforce our immigration
laws and secure our borders,'' Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson said in a
statement on Sunday.

The decision was welcomed by President Trump's base of supporters, which has
extolled his demands for stricter American immigration rules and a clampdown on
refugees, as well as his promises to build a wall along the Mexico border.

Conservative websites that support Mr. Trump, which viewed the proposed
migration pact as a threat to national security, prominently reported the news.
''Breaking. U.S. Withdraws From Obama-Negotiated U.N. Agreement on Mass
Migration,'' read the headline on Redstate.com

The United States Mission said in its statement that it had informed Secretary
General António Guterres that ''the United States is ending its participation in
the Global Compact on Migration.''

The United States has been part of the talks since they began in April, the
outcome of a political declaration in New York by all 193 members of the United
Nations last year in favor of protecting the rights of migrants and refugees by
assuring their safe resettlement and access to employment and education.

The Obama administration was a strong advocate of the declaration, and Mr.
Guterres has said he considers the agreement a major goal for 2018.

Mr. Trump's United Nations ambassador, Nikki R. Haley, said in the statement
announcing the withdrawal that the declaration contained ''numerous provisions
that are inconsistent with U.S. immigration and refugee policies and the Trump
administration's immigration principles.''

Ms. Haley, a child of Indian immigrants, emphasized in the statement that ''
America is proud of our immigrant heritage and our longstanding moral leadership
in providing support to migrant and refugee populations across the globe.''

However, she said, ''our decisions on immigration policies must always be made
by Americans and Americans alone.''

The decision made migration the second major topic of a United Nations agreement
to be repudiated by the Trump administration this year. Six months ago, it
announced American withdrawal from the Paris Climate accord to combat global
warming.

The Trump White House also has moved to distance itself from some key United
Nations agencies over political issues, including Unesco -- the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization -- and the United Nations
Population Fund, the world's leading provider of family-planning services.

The migration announcement came two days before a United Nations conference on
migration in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, in which the United States had been
expected to actively participate.

The announcement also came against the backdrop of growing migrant and refugee
crises from wars, conflicts and deprivation that have afflicted the Middle East,
Africa and parts of Asia.

Chaotic cross-border migration has provoked political backlashes in Europe and
helped create booms in the smuggling and exploitation of migrants and refugees
across the Mediterranean from Africa. Just last week, rights advocates expressed
outrage at video showing African migrant men in Libya sold as slaves.

The United Nations has estimated that more than 60 million people have been
displaced around the world, the largest figure since World War II.

Migrant-rights advocates expressed a mix of shock and bafflement at the Trump
administration's announcement, asserting that nothing proposed in the Global
Compact would be mandatory. Some said the absence of the United States from the
agreement could worsen the problems.

''An unwillingness even to negotiate international principles for safe, regular
and orderly migration is a head-in-the-sand denial of a basic reality of human
history,'' said Bill Frelick, the refugee rights program coordinator at Human
Rights Watch.

''Simplistic solutions like walls will not solve the complex problem of unsafe,
irregular, disorderly migration, demonstrating a callous disregard for the lives
of migrants and jaw-dropping irresponsibility toward the community of nations,''
Mr. Frelick said.

Kevin Appleby, the international migration policy director at the Scalabrini
International Migration Network, a New York-based advocacy group, said the Trump
administration was ''more interested in appeasing a small minority of Americans
than working with the world on a pressing global issue.''




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/03/world/americas/
united-nations-migration-pact.html

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       December 3, 2017 Sunday 00:00 EST

U.S. Quits Migration Pact, Saying It Infringes on Sovereignty

BYLINE: RICK GLADSTONE

SECTION: WORLD; americas

LENGTH: 922 words



HIGHLIGHT: Critics said the Trump administration's withdrawal from U.N. talks on
the migration crisis had reinforced an image of renewed American isolationism.


The Trump administration has quit participating in talks on a proposed United
Nations agreement to improve ways of handling global flows of migrants and
refugees, describing it as a subversion of American sovereignty.

The administration's decision to renounce the talks on the agreement, the Global
Compact on Migration, was announced in a statement Saturday night by the United
States Mission to the United Nations, surprising migrant-rights advocates who
called it shortsighted and counterproductive.

Many said the decision appeared to reinforce what they called an atmosphere of
renewed American isolationism and exceptionalism at the United Nations in the
first year of the Trump White House.

Trump administration officials said the decision was not an American repudiation
of cooperation with other countries but a rightful defense of the government's
power to determine who can enter the United States.

"While we will continue to engage on a number of fronts at the United Nations,
in this case, we simply cannot in good faith support a process that could
undermine the sovereign right of the United States to enforce our immigration
laws and secure our borders," Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson said in a
statement on Sunday.

The decision was welcomed by President Trump's base of supporters, which has
extolled his demands for stricter American immigration rules and a clampdown on
refugees, as well as his promises to build a wall along the Mexico border.

Conservative websites that support Mr. Trump, which viewed the proposed
migration pact as a threat to national security, prominently reported the news.
"Breaking. U.S. Withdraws From Obama-Negotiated U.N. Agreement on Mass
Migration," read the headline on Redstate.com

The United States Mission said in its statement that it had informed Secretary
General António Guterres that "the United States is ending its participation in
the Global Compact on Migration."

The United States has been part of the talks since they began in April, the
outcome of a political declaration in New York by all 193 members of the United
Nations last year in favor of protecting the rights of migrants and refugees by
assuring their safe resettlement and access to employment and education.

The Obama administration was a strong advocate of the declaration, and Mr.
Guterres has said he considers the agreement a major goal for 2018.

Mr. Trump's United Nations ambassador, Nikki R. Haley, said in the statement
announcing the withdrawal that the declaration contained "numerous provisions
that are inconsistent with U.S. immigration and refugee policies and the Trump
administration's immigration principles."

Ms. Haley, a child of Indian immigrants, emphasized in the statement that "
America is proud of our immigrant heritage and our longstanding moral leadership
in providing support to migrant and refugee populations across the globe."

However, she said, "our decisions on immigration policies must always be made by
Americans and Americans alone."

The decision made migration the second major topic of a United Nations agreement
to be repudiated by the Trump administration this year. Six months ago, it
announced American withdrawal from the Paris Climate accord to combat global
warming.

The Trump White House also has moved to distance itself from some key United
Nations agencies over political issues, including Unesco -- the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization -- and the United Nations
Population Fund, the world's leading provider of family-planning services.

The migration announcement came two days before a United Nations conference on
migration in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, in which the United States had been
expected to actively participate.

The announcement also came against the backdrop of growing migrant and refugee
crises from wars, conflicts and deprivation that have afflicted the Middle East,
Africa and parts of Asia.

Chaotic cross-border migration has provoked political backlashes in Europe and
helped create booms in the smuggling and exploitation of migrants and refugees
across the Mediterranean from Africa. Just last week, rights advocates expressed
outrage at video showing African migrant men in Libya sold as slaves.

The United Nations has estimated that more than 60 million people have been
displaced around the world, the largest figure since World War II.

Migrant-rights advocates expressed a mix of shock and bafflement at the Trump
administration's announcement, asserting that nothing proposed in the Global
Compact would be mandatory. Some said the absence of the United States from the
agreement could worsen the problems.

"An unwillingness even to negotiate international principles for safe, regular
and orderly migration is a head-in-the-sand denial of a basic reality of human
history," said Bill Frelick, the refugee rights program coordinator at Human
Rights Watch.

"Simplistic solutions like walls will not solve the complex problem of unsafe,
irregular, disorderly migration, demonstrating a callous disregard for the lives
of migrants and jaw-dropping irresponsibility toward the community of nations,"
Mr. Frelick said.

Kevin Appleby, the international migration policy director at the Scalabrini
International Migration Network, a New York-based advocacy group, said the Trump
administration was "more interested in appeasing a small minority of Americans
than working with the world on a pressing global issue."

Somini Sengupta contributed reporting.

Related Articles


     ·    Trump Will Withdraw U.S. From Paris Climate Agreement


LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                Tampa Bay Times

                            November 27, 2017 Monday
                                2 Tampa Edition

CHIEF OF A NEW VILLAGE

BYLINE: PAUL GUZZO, CHARLIE KAIJO, TIMES STAFF WRITERS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1445 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



HIGHLIGHT: Sadiki Bertin has struggled to survive since his early years in
Congo. Finally in America, he still struggles - but holds onto hope.


As a boy, Sadiki Bertin watched his father, a village chief in the Democratic
Republic of Congo, feed the hungry, find work for the unemployed and take in the
homeless.

But when Bertin was 16, war decimated his village of Lulinda. His parents and 14
of his 15 siblings died in a massacre.

He speaks little of his traumatic past. Instead, he is focused on his struggle
to survive - not in central Africa, but in the United States, where his
challenge is economic. He must find work to feed his family in a nation where
his native tongue, Swahili, opens few doors.

Bertin, 34, is among an estimated 250 Congolese refugees living in the Tampa Bay
area. He arrived last year, as did 185 others who relocated through an Obama-era
refugee expansion that was halted by the Trump administration.

The Christian-majority DRCled Syria and all other nations in 2016 and through
the first three quarters of 2017 as a country of origin among U.S. refugees.

Like Bertin, some came with big families and bigger aspirations, soon tempered
by reality.

He grew to adulthood on rations of beans in refugee camps, an odyssey that began
in 2000, when he fled the DRC. A teen, he carried his infant niece, Jeanette
Echa, assuring his surviving sister that he would keep the child safe.

Zambia, to the immediate south, was as far as he could go.

"I was 16," he said. "I didn't have any money."

As the years went on, he moved among camps in Zambia, Tanzania and Kenya. Once
there, he stayed put.

His homeland's problems dated back to the mid-1990s when a bloody civil war in
neighboring Rwanda spilled across borders, sparking what some historians call
Africa's World War because of the number of proxy nations involved.

"The Congolese population has not participated in these wars," said Francisca
Vigaud-Walsh, senior advocate at Refugees International. "They are just the
victims."

It was in Zambia that Bertin met his wife, Cecelia Kashindi Charlotte, now 30,
who gave birth to their first child in 2003. Five of their six children were
born in the camps. The sixth would take his first breath in the United States.

And it was in Kenya, a decade ago, that Bertin first stepped into a leadership
role among refugees, following in his father's village chief footsteps. The
camps contained a mix of Congolese, Sudanese, Somalis, Ethiopians and Eritreans,
Fights broke out at water pumps. Armed looting for food was common, he said, and
so was rape.

Bertin formed night patrols, raised money to install outdoor lights to deter
wrongdoers and served as a mediator between factions. He worked on his English
and tutored kids. Through a church - he's Catholic - he volunteered as a social
worker.

When he gave up hope of establishing a normal life in Africa for his family, he
turned to the United States.

The vetting process, which included background checks and health screenings,
took three years. That's not unusual, according to Alexandra Lamarche, an
advocate at Refugees International.

"It may sound like something that can be done fairly quickly, but it takes an
average of two-plus years," she said.

Although Bertin paid little attention to American politics, his August 2016
arrival was well timed. President Barack Obama had raised the ceiling on refugee
admissions from 70,000 in the 2015 fiscal year to 110,000 starting last October.
President Donald Trump would scale back the cap to 45,000.

---

Bertin had long heard of America's wealth and its generosity and he believed
that if he was willing to work hard, prosperity would follow.

"America is not a poor person," he concluded from afar. "No one has low income.
Everything is in America. We expect everything will be fine."

He thought he'd find work for $20 an hour and maybe start his own business. But
he didn't have the education or the resume, and while he speaks some English,
his accent is thick.

He landed a part-time job at McDonald's, followed by a full-time job at PACA
Foods, which makes dry-blended food products such as seasonings.

His wife was employed, too, at Captain's Fine Foods in St. Petersburg until
their new baby arrived. They have yet to find affordable day care so she can
rejoin the workforce.

Then, Bertin's shift at PACA Foods changed, with a new start time of 5 a.m. No
bus could get him there on time.

He went nearly a month before finding temporary $8-an-hour work as a packager
for Hit Promotional Products in Largo for 40 hours a week.

The job ends after the holidays, he said. He relies on a ride from a friend. If
his friend changes employers, Bertin could be out of work even sooner.

He twice failed the written portion of the driver's test. It is not offered in
Swahili or French, the two languages he can read best.

When refugee families arrive, the federal government initially pays about $1,000
per person to help with resettlement. Agencies such as Lutheran Services Florida
assist in the search for work, lodging, schools and doctors.

After a few months, families are expected to sustain themselves, with some
oversight by the nonprofit.

Even when working, the low-paying jobs available to him make it difficult for
Bertin to cover an electric bill and the $1,100 rent he pays for a
1,400-square-foot home in Sulphur Springs.

He has a family of nine, counting his wife. Their children range in age from
under a year to 13. His niece is now 17.

Theirs is not the largest of the Congolese refugee households. In the DRC, a big
family symbolizes opulence as a homegrown workforce, according to Dillon
Mahoney, a professor in the University of South Florida's anthropology
department.

"In their culture, a large family is a blessing," agreed Lourdes Mesias,
director of refugee and immigration services for Lutheran Services Florida. "But
when here making minimum wage, housing is not affordable."

---

When not at his paying job, Bertin finds plenty to do.

He volunteers as a translator for the mostly Swahili-speaking refugee community,
helping others to navigate government bureaucracy for economic aid and
education.

He aims to be a Tampa incarnation of his father, the village chief.

One day, he walked a mile to disarm a family's broken, blaring fire alarm.

Another day, he served as the go-between for a family and apartment management.

On the Wednesday before Thanksgiving he helped Lutheran Services Florida
distribute donated food to Congolese refugees and then on Thanksgiving hosted a
meal at a friend's home for multiple Congolese families.

"Whatever they need," he said. "I am only interested in helping people."

Magda Elkadi Saleh, president of the nonprofit Radiant Hands, which provides
refugees with clothing, furniture and food, said she can always count on Bertin
to welcome a new Congolese family to the area, sometimes enlisting a dance
troupe to perform a routine native to the culture.

And he's not the only local organizer. DRC refugee Jean-Paul Amani, 36, who
arrived last December, provides similar services. Like Bertin, he has a large
family but also cannot find work beyond something temporary.

"We all want to become socially responsible Americans," Amani said.

Eugenie Umurutasate, 39, a refugee from Burundi who arrived in 2010 and now
works as a lab tech at Brandon Hospital, has a women's group for DRC refugees.

"We are finding ways to survive together," she said.

---

Bertin says he is not looking for handouts but wants to help himself and fellow
refugees to become contributing members of the community.

He wants to form a nonprofit to combat their economic issues. Through it he
hopes to purchase vans to provide transportation to work, and start English
language classes and vocational training to expand career options.

The children need help, too. School is doubly hard due to the language issue, so
Bertin would like to start a tutoring service.

"I want the kids to be more than me," he said. "That is the dream."

Even amid the challenges, he remains thankful to his new nation and optimistic
that his work ethic will open the doors of prosperity for his family and all
local Congolese refugees.

"I'm happy with the USA because I hope I will change my life and my kids will
get an education," he said. "In the refugee camps, I was losing hope to reach my
goals. Blessings to God because he brought me to the land of opportunity."

Sitting on a tan thrift store couch in his spartan home, Bertin asked his
11-year-old son in English to turn off the bathroom light. The boy stared
blankly at his father. Bertin asked twice more.

Finally, and with a sigh, he repeated the request a fourth time but in their
native Swahili. His son immediately complied.

"I say everything three times in English before our language," Bertin said.
"It's hard. We'll do it."

Contact Paul Guzzo at pguzzo@tampabay.com Follow @PGuzzoTimes.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO - CHARLIE KAIJO - Times: Sadiki Bertin, center,watches television
with his wife, Cecelia Kashindi Charlotte, left, and children Desire and Mary,
and a niece, Jeanette Echa, 17. They are among about 250 Congolese refugees
living in the Tampa Bay area. PHOTO - CHARLIE KAIJO - Times: Sadiki Bertin
ponders the future after learning three of his friends and their families were
to be evicted from their apartments. PHOTO - CHARLIE KAIJO - Times: Bertin takes
a call while walkinghome from the bus stop with his groceries. The trip to the
store and Amscot took three hours. PHOTO - CHARLIE KAIJO - Times: Cecelia
Kashindi Charlotte calls a friend on Facetime after the birth of their sixth
child. Nurse Lolade Agboola is at right. Their other five children were born in
refugee camps. PHOTO - CHARLIE KAIJO - Times: Bertin's ride honks because she
must get to work. He gestures for her to wait so he can finish talking to the
newly resettled Mamboleo family about their needs.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2017 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 23, 2017 Monday

FEDERAL REGISTER: Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal
Year 2018 Pages 49083 - 49084 [FR DOC # 2017-23140]

LENGTH: 668  words



Washington: Office of the Federal Register has issued the following notice:
The President
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Presidential Determination No. 2017-13 of September 29, 2017-- Presidential
Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2018 Presidential
Determination No. 2017-14 of September 30, 2017-- Presidential Determination
With Respect to the Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008 Presidential Documents
Federal Register / Vol. 82 , No. 203 / Monday, October 23, 2017 / Presidential
Documents ___________________________________________________________________
Title 3-- The President [[Page 49083]] Presidential Determination No. 2017-13 of
September 29, 2017 Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal
Year 2018 Memorandum for the Secretary of State By the authority vested in me as
President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, in accordance
with section 207 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (the ``Act'') (8 U.S.C.
1157), after appropriate consultations with the Congress, and consistent with
the Report on Proposed Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2018 submitted to the
Congress on September 27, 2017, I hereby determine and authorize as follows: The
admission of up to 45,000 refugees to the United States during Fiscal Year (FY)
2018 is justified by humanitarian concerns or is otherwise in the national
interest.

This number includes persons admitted to the United States during FY 2018 with
Federal refugee resettlement assistance under the Amerasian immigrant admissions
program, as provided below. The admissions shall be allocated among refugees of
special humanitarian concern to the United States in accordance with the
following regional allocations: Africa.
................................................ 19,000 ...... East
Asia.............................................. 5,000 ...... Europe and
Central Asia................................ 2,000 ...... Latin America/
Caribbean................................ 1,500 ...... Near East/South
Asia................................... 17,500 ...... The number of admissions
allocated to the East Asia region shall include persons admitted to the United
States during FY 2018 with Federal refugee resettlement assistance under section
584 of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs
Appropriations Act of 1988, as contained in section 101(e) of Public Law 100-202
(Amerasian immigrants and their family members). Additionally, you are
authorized, following notification of the appropriate committees of the
Congress, to transfer unused admissions allocated to a region to one or more
other regions, if greater admissions are needed for such region or regions.
Consistent with section 2(b)(2) of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of
1962 (22 U.S.C. 2601(b)), I hereby determine that assistance to or on behalf of
persons applying for admission to the United States as part of the overseas
refugee admissions program will contribute to the foreign policy interests of
the United States, and I accordingly designate such persons for this purpose.
Consistent with section 101(a)(42) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(42)), and after
appropriate consultation with the Congress, I also specify that, for FY 2018,
the following persons may, if otherwise qualified, be considered refugees for
the purpose of admission to the United States within their countries of
nationality or habitual residence: a. persons in Cuba b. persons in Eurasia and
the Baltics c. persons in Iraq d. persons in Honduras, Guatemala, and El
Salvador [[Page 49084]] e. persons identified by a United States Embassy in any
location, in exceptional circumstances. You are authorized and directed to
publish this determination in the Federal Register.

                     (Presidential Sig.)
                THE WHITE HOUSE,
                    Washington, September 29, 2017
[FR Doc. 2017-23140
 Filed 10-20-17; 11:15 am]
 Billing code 4710-10-P

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                           September 29, 2017 Friday

Trump slashes refugee admissions to 45,000

LENGTH: 433 words

DATELINE: Washington


Washington, Sept. 29 -- In the lowest-ever cap set for admitting refugees from
across the world, President Donald Trump has decided that the United States will
now take more than 45,000 refugees during the next American fiscal year,
beginning October 1.

This threshold will be nearly half of the 85,000 refugees admitted by the
predecessor Obama administration for fiscal 2016.

Under the new plan, the United States will take in a maximum of 19,000 refugees
from Africa, 17,500 from the Middle East and South Asia, 5,000 from East Asia,
2,000 from Europe and Central Asia, and 1,500 from Latin America and the
Caribbean.

A critic of the Democrats' liberal refugee admissions policy, Trump has been a
proponent of helping refugees closer to their home countries than in resettling
them in faraway lands like America.

After the White House notified Congress of Trump's decision, officials said the
new level represents the maximum number of refugees that the United States can
admit even as it is conducting the vetting necessary to keep out terrorists and
criminals.

"The safety and the security of the American people is No. 1, and we want to
make sure no one is allowed through who would endanger the safety of the
American people," an official said, while maintaining that the US still remains
the world's leading donor of humanitarian assistance, having provided $7 billion
on this score over the past year.

"We need to ensure refugee resettlement opportunities go to those who are
eligible for such protection and who are not known to present a risk to the
safety or the security of our country," the official said.

The White House announcement came for sharp criticism from major humanitarian
groups. The New York-based International Refugee Assistance Project called it a
case of the US abdicating its leadership role on humanitarian issues at time
when the world is grappling with the largest number of refugees since World War
II.

"It's hard to comprehend why the administration would move to limit resettlement
when the need is greater than ever," a project official said, noting: "We are
abandoning desperate people in life-or-death situations, including children with
medical emergencies, US wartime allies, and survivors of torture."

The council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR) termed the Trump administration
action of slashing the refugee numbers was "nothing short of a back-door Muslim
ban".

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from Pioneer. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at content.services@htlive.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                        The East Bay Times (California)

                          September 28, 2017 Thursday

Trump administration sets refugee admissions at historic low

BYLINE: Tatiana Sanchez

LENGTH: 674 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Trump administration set a limit of 45,000 for refugee arrivals
in 2018.


Citing safety and security concerns, the Trump administration said Wednesday
that it will cap refugee admissions at 45,000 in the 2018 fiscal year, a
historic low that refugee advocates say will exclude many of the worlds
vulnerable populations.

Under the proposal to Congress, an estimated 19,000 refugees would be admitted
from Africa; 17,000 from east South Asia; 5,000 from East Asia; 2,000 from
Europe and Central Asia and 1,500 from Latin America and the Caribbean.

While stating the importance of the United States leadership role in
humanitarian protection, the administration said during a news briefing that an
integral part of this mission is to ensure that refugee resettlement
opportunities only go to those who are eligible for such protection and who are
not known to present a risk to the safety and security of our country.

The limit is the lowest since 1980, the year legislation was implemented giving
the president authority to determine a cap on refugees, according to the New
York Times. The limit has never slipped lower than 67,000  the number that
Ronald Reagan set in 1986  the Times said. In previous years, the U.S. had
admitted an estimated 70,000 refugees annually. Former President Barack Obama
had placed a 110,000 limit on refugees last year, in part to take in a growing
number of Syrian refugees displaced around the world.

The announcement comes days after the Trump administration revealed new
restrictions on visitors from eight countries  an expansion of the pre-existing
travel ban that has spurred fierce legal debates over security, immigration and
discrimination.

The new refugee ceiling is tragic and misguided, according to Mindy Berkowitz,
executive director of Jewish Family Services of Silicon Valley in Los Gatos, one
of just a few refugee resettlement agencies in Santa Clara County.

Like our Facebook page for more conversation and news coverage from the Bay Area
and beyond.

The people that were looking to limit are the people who are escaping terrorism,
she said. They want to live in peace and freedom. When they come here, they are
so enthusiastic and ready to contribute.

Berkowitz said the nonprofit is paid per refugee arrival.

If were looking at these historically low levels, we stand to lose from our
budgets hundreds of thousands of dollars. It mostly impacts us in terms of the
staff that we hire.

Santa Clara County resettled 134 refugees between October 2016 and August 31,
according to data compiled by the states Department of Social Services.
Berkowitz, however, said state estimates are inaccurate. Jewish Family Services
alone resettled 105 refugees between October 2016 and September, she said.

Meanwhile, Alameda County resettled 127 refugees between October 2016 and August
31, compared with 28 in Contra Costa County, state data shows.

We have recognized for many years that offering safe haven to the neediest among
us helps advance American interests abroad, and it is devastating to see the
White House ignoring this fact, said Karen Ferguson, executive director of the
International Rescue Committee of Northern California in a statement. Locally,
the IRC sees refugees being welcomed into Northern California and then giving
back to their communities and to the economy, and are committed to continuing
that work.

In a joint statement with U.S. Rep. John Conyers Jr. (D-Michigan), Rep. Zoe
Lofgren called the cap an affront to the United States legacy as a protector of
oppressed people.

Todays decision turns our back on the world at a time when there are more
refugees, asylum-seekers, and internally displaced persons than at any time
since World War II, said Lofgren, a member of the House Judiciary Committee. It
is an abdication of our moral authority, and an abandonment of the very values
that make America great.

Federal law requires a cabinet official to consult with Congress before a
ceiling is set. But government officials said the administrations briefing to
Congress on the cap came just days before the fiscal year starts on Oct 1.

The Associated Press contributed.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                          September 28, 2017 Thursday

Trump administration sets refugee admissions at historic low

BYLINE: Tatiana Sanchez

LENGTH: 704 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Trump administration set a limit of 45,000 for refugee arrivals
in 2018.


Citing safety and security concerns, the Trump administration said Wednesday
that it will cap refugee admissions at 45,000 in the 2018 fiscal year, a
historic low that refugee advocates say will exclude many of the worlds
vulnerable populations.

Under the proposal to Congress, an estimated 19,000 refugees would be admitted
from Africa; 17,000 from east South Asia; 5,000 from East Asia; 2,000 from
Europe and Central Asia and 1,500 from Latin America and the Caribbean.

Venezuela lashes out over travel ban

Supreme Court postpones hearing on Trumps travel ban

Trump replaces travel ban with new restrictions      While stating the
importance of the United States leadership role in humanitarian protection, the
administration said during a news briefing that an integral part of this mission
is to ensure that refugee resettlement opportunities only go to those who are
eligible for such protection and who are not known to present a risk to the
safety and security of our country.

The limit is the lowest since 1980, the year legislation was implemented giving
the president authority to determine a cap on refugees, according to the New
York Times. The limit has never slipped lower than 67,000  the number that
Ronald Reagan set in 1986  the Times said. In previous years, the U.S. had
admitted an estimated 70,000 refugees annually. Former President Barack Obama
had placed a 110,000 limit on refugees last year, in part to take in a growing
number of Syrian refugees displaced around the world.

The announcement comes days after the Trump administration revealed new
restrictions on visitors from eight countries  an expansion of the pre-existing
travel ban that has spurred fierce legal debates over security, immigration and
discrimination.

The new refugee ceiling is tragic and misguided, according to Mindy Berkowitz,
executive director of Jewish Family Services of Silicon Valley in Los Gatos, one
of just a few refugee resettlement agencies in Santa Clara County.

Like our Facebook page for more conversation and news coverage from the Bay Area
and beyond.

The people that were looking to limit are the people who are escaping terrorism,
she said. They want to live in peace and freedom. When they come here, they are
so enthusiastic and ready to contribute.

Berkowitz said the nonprofit is paid per refugee arrival.

If were looking at these historically low levels, we stand to lose from our
budgets hundreds of thousands of dollars. It mostly impacts us in terms of the
staff that we hire.

Santa Clara County resettled 134 refugees between October 2016 and August 31,
according to data compiled by the states Department of Social Services.
Berkowitz, however, said state estimates are inaccurate. Jewish Family Services
alone resettled 105 refugees between October 2016 and September, she said.

Meanwhile, Alameda County resettled 127 refugees between October 2016 and August
31, compared with 28 in Contra Costa County, state data shows.

We have recognized for many years that offering safe haven to the neediest among
us helps advance American interests abroad, and it is devastating to see the
White House ignoring this fact, said Karen Ferguson, executive director of the
International Rescue Committee of Northern California in a statement. Locally,
the IRC sees refugees being welcomed into Northern California and then giving
back to their communities and to the economy, and are committed to continuing
that work.

In a joint statement with U.S. Rep. John Conyers Jr. (D-Michigan), Rep. Zoe
Lofgren called the cap an affront to the United States legacy as a protector of
oppressed people.

Todays decision turns our back on the world at a time when there are more
refugees, asylum-seekers, and internally displaced persons than at any time
since World War II, said Lofgren, a member of the House Judiciary Committee. It
is an abdication of our moral authority, and an abandonment of the very values
that make America great.

Federal law requires a cabinet official to consult with Congress before a
ceiling is set. But government officials said the administrations briefing to
Congress on the cap came just days before the fiscal year starts on Oct 1.

The Associated Press contributed.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                Tampa Bay Times

                          September 28, 2017 Thursday
                             Politifact.com Edition

PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP REDUCES REFUGEE CAP TO 45,000 FOR FISCAL YEAR 2018

BYLINE: MIRIAM VALVERDE

SECTION: POLITIFACT; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 479 words


Limit legal immigration

"We will reform legal immigration to serve the best interests of America and its
workers, the forgotten people. Workers. We're going to take care of our
workers."

* * *

Sources:

Subjects: Immigration

* * *

TRUMP-O_METER: IN THE WORKS

President Donald Trump plans to admit no more than 45,000 refugees from around
the world in fiscal year 2018, a significant drop from the cap of 110,000 set
for 2017 by predecessor Barack Obama.

The president, in consultation with Congress, determines the maximum number of
refugees admitted into the United States per fiscal year. The 2018 year begins
Oct. 1 and ends Sept. 30, 2018.

Here's the regional breakdown for top admissions in 2018:

· 19,000 from Africa

· 5,000 from East Asia

· 2,000 from Europe and Central Asia

· 1,500 from Latin America and the Caribbean

· 17,500 from Near East and South Asia

A ceiling of 45,000 refugees "is consistent with our foreign policy goals and
operational capacity in light of additional security vetting procedures that we
are implementing, as well as the domestic asylum backlogs that (Department of
Homeland Security) is currently facing," a U.S. government official told
reporters on Sept. 27.

The Trump administration is currently reviewing the U.S. Refugee Admissions
Program and has started strengthening the refugee vetting process, officials
said.

Reducing the number of refugees allowed in the country per year is one way to
limit legal immigration. Refugees are admitted under a refugee status and must
apply for lawful permanent residence one year after their arrival.

Trump earlier this year expressed support for an immigration bill from
Republican senators to limit to 50,000 the number of refugees admitted per
fiscal year.

Trump has also said via executive orders that the admission of more than 50,000
refugees in fiscal year 2017 "would be detrimental to the interests of the
United States." At least 53,605 refugees have arrived in the United States as of
Sept. 28, according to data from the State Department's Refugee Processing
Center.

A refugee cap of 45,000 for fiscal year 2018 is nearly a 60 percent decline from
the 2017 ceiling. This reduction is in line with Trump's promise to limit legal
immigration.

We'll continue to monitor future refugee caps and other immigration measures
seeking to restrict legal immigration. For now, we continue to rate this promise
In the Works.

* * *

Sources:

State Department, Background Briefing: U.S. Government Officials On the Refugee
Cap for Fiscal Year 2018, Sept. 27, 2017

State Department, Data on refugee arrivals

White House, Executive order: protecting the nation from foreign terrorist entry
into the united states, Jan. 27, 2017

White House, Executive Order Protecting The Nation From Foreign Terrorist Entry
Into The United States, March 6, 2017

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Refugees, Last Reviewed/Updated:
03/23/2017

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VIDEO: PolitiFact is tracking the promises of President Donald Trump.
See them all at PolitiFact.com.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2017 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          September 28, 2017 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

U.S. plans to set record-low cap on refugees

BYLINE: Matt Zapotosky;Carol Morello

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 1026 words


Ceiling of 45,000 marks lowest total since 1980 law established program

The United States plans to accept a maximum of 45,000 refugees in the coming
fiscal year, according to a report obtained by The Washington Post, a figure
that represents the lowest cap in decades and one that human rights groups
quickly condemned.

The State Department and Department of Homeland Security briefed members of
Congress on the plan Wednesday. The cap, previously reported by the Wall Street
Journal and others, is the lowest since a 1980 law created an organized refugee
program.

"It's a devastating blow to the U.S. refugee admissions program and this
country's sense of self and history of compassion in welcoming refugees," said
Naureen Shah, campaign director for the U.S. arm of Amnesty International, which
had recommended a ceiling of 75,000. "It feels like a sharp betrayal, pouring
gas on the fire that is engulfing the world. We see all over the world, ordinary
people are being treated worse than cattle. For the Trump administration to
become an accomplice to that is heartbreaking."

A U.S. official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said authorities had
"every plan to process as many refugees as we can under this ceiling." A White
House official said: "The president's strategy on refugees is guided first and
foremost by the safety and security of the American people. The United States
can also help a larger number of refugees by resettling them in their home
region and enabling their eventual safe return home."

The cap is for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1 and ends Sept. 30, 2018. It
calls for the United States to accept 19,000 people from Africa; 5,000 from East
Asia; 2,000 from Europe and Central Asia; 1,500 from Latin America and the
Caribbean; and 17,500 from the Near East and South Asia.

To the alarm of some advocates, the report said that when making decisions on
whether to admit refugees, U.S. officials would "take into account certain
criteria that enhance a refugee's likelihood of successful assimilation and
contribution to the United States."

"I find that really troubling," said Melanie Nezer, an official with the Hebrew
Immigrant Aid Society, one of the nine agencies working with the government to
acclimate and resettle refugees.

Bill Frelick, director of the refugee program at Human Rights Watch, said that
criteria was "completely irrelevant."

"Refugees are often traumatized and would not at first glance appear to be good
candidates for immigration because they were selected not based on their
immigration criteria, but on refugee needs," Frelick said. "And yet many of them
have proven resilient over time and become very productive members of society."

A State Department official said: "This is not an additional requirement.
Instead, it is an area of discussion that State and [the Department of Homeland
Security] are exploring this coming year."

While the cap is low - it represents far less than 1 percent of the 22.5 million
people counted as refugees - it does not necessarily reflect the actual number
of refugees who are admitted to the United States in a year.

That figure fell below 45,000 during several years after the terrorist attacks
in 2001. In 2002, refugee admissions plunged to 27,000 from 70,000, and to
28,000 the next year.

But since the law that let the president establish the cap, the ceiling has
never gone below 67,000, set by President Ronald Reagan in 1986. The annual
ceiling has fluctuated between 70,000 and 80,000 in recent years, until growing
to 110,000 under President Barack Obama. Trump cut it to 50,000 midway through
the current fiscal year.

A U.S. official said the administration believed this year it could "get into
the ballpark of this ceiling."

The report said that in establishing the cap, the administration took into
account prospective refugees who had been interviewed but had not yet arrived in
the United States, historical data, and an analysis of the government's staffing
needs and screening abilities. The Republican and Democratic leaders of the
Senate Judiciary Committee, though, said they felt the administration had not
sufficiently engaged with legislators before settling on a figure.

"Congress and the law require real engagement on this important subject,"
Judiciary Committee Chairman Charles E. Grassley (R-Iowa) and ranking Democrat
Dianne Feinstein (Calif.) said in a statement. "An eleventh-hour meeting to
check a legal box is not sufficient."

The report said that the refugee population has been increasing, and the United
States, in particular, has been wrestling with more people who make their way to
the country and seek asylum once they are here. The report said officials expect
to have a backlog of more than 300,000 such cases early in fiscal 2018.

The report touts the United States' expansive role in resettling refugees,
noting that it is the single largest donor to the Office of the U.N. High
Commissioner for Refugees, providing more than $1.5 billion in fiscal year 2016.
The UNHCR referred more than 90 percent of refugees for resettlement to the
United States, Australia and Canada in 2016, according to the report.

Even at the reduced ceiling of 45,000, the United States will resettle the most
refugees in raw numbers. But other nations, such as Canada, take in far more in
proportion to their populations.

While the cap goes into effect Oct. 1, President Trump's temporary ban on
refugees, inked in March, remains in effect until Oct. 24. That would keep out
refugees without a bona fide connection to the United States.

While the administration recently unveiled a new entry ban affecting, in various
ways, citizens of eight countries, the directive did not address what would
happen with refugees. The refugee report references the new executive order,
noting the administration's desire to improve screening and vetting procedures
when it comes to refugees.

It is unclear if the administration will impose any restrictions on top of the
cap after Oct. 24. A U.S. official said the administration was still reviewing
current vetting and screening procedures, which are already robust.

matt.zapotosky@washpost.com

carol.morello@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                    Zee News

                          September 28, 2017 Thursday

United States drastically slashes refugee intake to 45,000

LENGTH: 744  words

DATELINE: Washington


Washington, Sept. 28 -- The United States will curtail the number of refugees it
will accept for resettlement to 45,000 next year, nearly half the figure for
2016, officials said on Thursday, triggering criticism from humanitarian groups
and lawmakers.


 Secretary of State Rex Tillerson will soon brief the Congress on this, a US
government official told reporters during a conference call.
 A presidential determination is expected to be issued in the coming days.
 Officials said they plan to complete a review of security procedures for
vetting new arrivals by next month, but arrivals next year will be reduced.
 The regional breakdown will be Africa, 19,000; East Asia, 5,000; Europe and
Central Asia, 2,000; Latin America and the Caribbean, 1,500; Near East South
Asia, 17,000.
 "The security and safety of the American people is our chief concern," a
government official said.
 In the 2016 fiscal year, the US accepted 84,995 refugees from around the world.
This year it is on course to take in around 50,000.
 The US is still the world's biggest destination for refugees, but arrivals are
well down from a high of more than 200,000 in 1980.
 Since 1975, the US has welcomed more than 3 million refugees from all over the
world.
 "While maintaining the US' leadership role in humanitarian protection, an
integral part of this mission is to ensure that refugee resettlement
opportunities only go to those who are eligible for such protection and who are
not known to present a risk to the safety and security of our country," the
official said.
 The official noted that the refugee resettlement is only one part of the US'
response to the crisis of forced displacement around the world.
 "The US also remains the world's leading donor of humanitarian assistance,
providing over USD 7 billion in humanitarian assistance around the world last
year," the official said.
 In 2017, the US has provided more than USD 1.4 billion in humanitarian
assistance for the Syria crisis, and more than USD 581 million for the Iraq
crisis.
 "We have provided nearly USD 2.5 billion for people from countries facing
famine. And we have provided nearly USD 95 million for displaced persons in
Burma and the region," the official added.
 The move drew a sharp reaction from lawmakers and human rights activists.
 "A refugee admissions ceiling of 45,000 is completely unacceptable and does not
reflect the needs of the worldwide humanitarian crisis," Senator Dianne
Feinstein said.
 According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, there are 22.5
million refugees and 65.6 million forcibly displaced people worldwide.
 "Such a move is inhumane," Senator Tom Carper said.
 "The founding fathers of the US 'a country of immigrants' fought to create a
democracy that would be an example of hope and freedom for the world. President
Trump's move to drastically cut back the number of refugees we'll admit into our
country flies in the face of those principles," he said.
 "This administration's efforts to isolate us from our allies around the globe
only serve to further this misconception. Refugees make great contributions to
our economy and our society, and communities across the country, if given the
chance, would welcome them with open arms," he said.
 "At a time when the world is facing the worst refugee crisis in history, it is
unconscionable that the Trump Administration is setting the lowest refugee
ceiling in history," Senator Dick Durbin said.
 Congressmen John Conyers and Zoe Lofgren in a joint statement said the Trump
Administration's decision to cut refugee admissions to a historic low of 45,000
is an affront to the US' legacy as a protector of oppressed people.
 "These drastic measures are completely unnecessary because according to
national security experts, our refugee program's current vetting process is
already extremely effective in identifying and mitigating threats to our
national security. Reducing the numbers of refugees is nothing short of a
back-door Muslim Ban," said Gadier Abbas from CAIR.
 Elica Vafaie from?Asian Americans Advancing Justice said by slashing refugee
resettlement programme to "historic low", President Trump is abusing executive
power to change the very fabric and face of an American story.
 Avideh Moussavian from National Immigration Law Center said the drastic
reduction in the number of refugees by the Trump administration "shamefully puts
lives at risk" and is using public policy to discriminate against Muslims in the
US.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2017 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                          September 27, 2017 Wednesday

Trump admin defends new refugee cap of 45,000 in coming year

BYLINE: Josh Lederman | The Associated Press

LENGTH: 749 words


Washington o The Trump administration defended its decision Wednesday to sharply
curtail the number of refugees allowed into the United States to 45,000 next
year, even as global humanitarian groups decried the move and called the number
far too low.

The 45,000 cap, to be formally announced by President Donald Trump in the coming
days, reflects the maximum the U.S. will admit during the fiscal year that
starts Sunday, although the actual number allowed could be far lower. Even if
the cap is ultimately hit, it would reflect the lowest admissions level for the
U.S. in more than a decade.

Lowering the cap reflects Trump's opposition to accepting refugees and other
immigrants into the U.S., an approach that has already driven down refugee
admissions. Former President Barack Obama had wanted to take in 110,000 in 2017,
but the pace slowed dramatically after Trump took office and issued an executive
order addressing refugees. The total admitted in the fiscal year that ends
Sunday is expected to be around 54,000, officials said. In 2016, the last full
year of Obama's administration, the U.S. welcomed 84,995 refugees.

Though a broad array of criteria determines who receives refugee status, the
allotments are broken down into specific numbers of refugees admitted from
various geographic regions. The State Department conveyed those numbers to
Congress on Wednesday, officials said.

Africa will receive the largest allotment of 19,000 refugees, or 42 percent of
the total. The next-highest number goes to the Middle East and South Asia, which
will be granted 17,500 slots, or 39 percent. The remaining allotments include
5,000 for East Asia, 2,000 for Europe and 1,500 for Latin America and the
Caribbean.

Although the totals are far lower than in the Obama administration, the
percentage granted to each region was left almost unchanged from the last year
of Obama's term. One key difference there will no longer be an "unallocated"
allotment of 14,000 refugees that could come from any region.

Trump's decision has drawn consternation from aid groups who have pointed to
refugee crises that have worsened, not improved, including in Syria, Myanmar and
South Sudan. Several groups have urged Trump to reconsider and adopt a figure
closer to Obama's goal of 110,000.

"With historically high numbers of innocent people fleeing violence worldwide,
the United States response cannot be to welcome a historically low number of
refugees into our country," said Bill O'Keefe of Catholic Relief Services.

But Trump administration officials said the new cap will advance national
security interests and reflect the United States' capacity to properly screen
and take in refugees. They said new screening and admittance requirements for
refugees will be announced later, as a 6-month review, ordered by Trump near the
start of his presidency, draws to a close.

It's unclear how those requirements might affect individuals from countries
included in Trump's revised travel restrictions, a list that includes Syria,
Yemen, Chad, Libya and Somalia. Officials couldn't say whether people from those
countries would be allowed in as refugees. The officials briefed reporters on a
conference call on condition of anonymity.

Trump's administration settled on the 45,000 figure after a vigorous debate
among his top advisers, other officials have said, including some who advocated
letting in far fewer. Strong opposition to higher levels from some top aides has
fueled speculation that Trump's administration might set a limit of 45,000, but
then deliberately slow-walk admissions so that the number actually allowed in is
significantly lower.

But officials pushed back, arguing that while it's often the case that actual
admissions are somewhat lower than the cap, the U.S. would work to accept as
many as possible within the 45,000 limit.

Worldwide, there were some 22.5 million refugees last year, according to the
U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees, with many more people internally displaced
within their home countries. The strong preference among aid groups and
governments has been to seek conditions so refugees can return to their homes,
rather than being permanently resettled in host countries.

Trump has made limiting immigration the centerpiece of his policy agenda. He
temporarily banned visitors from a handful of Muslim-majority nations, has
rescinded an Obama-era executive action protecting young immigrants from
deportation and insists he'll build a wall along the southern border with
Mexico.


LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                              The Herald (Harare)

                               September 20, 2017

UN General Assembly Debate Kicks Off

BYLINE: Munyaradzi Huni

LENGTH: 487 words


The United Nations General Assembly's annual debate started yesterday with the
UN and the US preoccupied with developments in North Korea, whose ambition to
acquire nuclear weapons is worrying the West.

President Mugabe is attending the Assembly and is expected to address the
gathering this week. Activists from several non governmental organisations from
Zimbabwe that descended on New York this week were hoping that the UN and the US
would devote some time on Africa in general and Zimbabwe in particular, but were
left disappointed. UN Secretary-General Mr Antonio Guterres kicked off the
annual debate yesterday, warning that "we are living in a world in pieces."

"Our world is in trouble . . . People are hurting and angry. They see insecurity
rising, inequality growing, conflict spreading and climate changing," said Mr
Guterres.

He went on to outline seven key threats facing the world, and the major
challenges to resolving them; the risk of nuclear conflict, international
terrorism, unresolved conflicts and violations of international humanitarian
law, climate change, rising inequality, cyber security, and the refugee crisis.
The UN chief seemed to be attacking US President Mr Donald Trump for trying to
curb immigration and the intake of refugees into his country.

Without mentioning any country in particular, Mr Guterres said "instead of
closed doors and open hostility, we need to re-establish the integrity of the
refugee protection regime and the simple decency of human compassion."

When he took to the podium, Mr Trump warned that the US would "totally destroy
North Korea" if forced to defend itself or its allies.

"The United States has great strength and patience, but if it is forced to
defend itself or its allies, we will have no choice, but to totally destroy
North Korea," said Mr Trump in his first address to the UN General Assembly.

"It is time for North Korea to realise that its denuclearisation is its only
responsible future," Mr Trump said. He described North Korean leader Kim Jong Un
as a "Rocket Man on a suicide mission for himself." Mr Trump told world leaders
that he would not seek to impose US values on the world.

"In America, we do not seek to impose our way of life on anyone, but rather to
let it shine as an example for everyone to watch," Mr Trump said. He said he
would continue to place America's interests ahead of other countries.

"As President of the United States, I will always put America first . . . All
responsible leaders have an obligation to serve their own nations. "I will
always put America first. Just like you, the leaders of your countries, should
and always put your countries first," said Mr Trump.

However, many delegates felt Mr Trump's speech was full of fury, but signifying
nothing. The way he praised himself and his government at the beginning of his
speech and the "usual American arrogance" thrown all over his speech was a turn
off for many delegates.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2017 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                           September 15, 2017 Friday

From refugee camp to runway, model breaks barriers

SECTION: FASHION

LENGTH: 354 words


Roughly one year ago, Denise Wallace, the executive co-director of the Miss
Minnesota USA pageant, received a phone call from 19-year-old Halima Aden asking
if she could compete in the contest wearing her hijab.

"Her photo popped up and I remember distinctly going, 'Wow, she is beautiful,'"
Wallace says.

The Somali-American teen made headlines as the first hijab and burkini-sporting
contestant in the history of the pageant. The bold move catapulted her career to
new heights involving many "firsts," including being the first hijabi signed by
a major modeling agency.

"I wear the hijab everyday," says Aden, who was in New York for Fashion Week.

The hijab one of the most visible signs of Islamic culture is going mainstream,
with advertisers, media giants and fashion firms promoting images of the
traditional headscarf in ever more ways.

Nike Inc announced it is using its prowess in the sports and leisure market to
launch a breathable mesh hijab in spring 2018, becoming the first major sports
apparel maker to offer a traditional Islamic head scarf designed for
competition. Teen apparel maker American Eagle Out-fitters Inc created a denim
hijab with Aden as its main model. The youthful headscarf sold out in less than
a week online.

Allure magazine's editor-in-chief, Michelle Lee, is also in the mix, describing
Aden as a "normal American teenage girl" on the front cover of the magazine's
July issue.

"She is someone who is so amazingly representative of who we are as America, as
a melting pot it totally made sense for us," Lee says.

Aden, born in Kakuma, a United Nations refugee camp in Kenya, came to the United
States at age 7 with her family, initially settling in St. Louis.

She fondly recalled her time at the refugee camp saying, "Different people,
different refugees from all over Africa came together in Kakuma. Yet we still
found a common ground."

In America, she was an A-student and homecoming queen. Now, her ultimate goal is
to become a role model for American Muslim youth. "I am doing me and I have no
reason to think that other people are against me," Aden says. "So I just guess
I'm oblivious."

REUTERS

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                           September 15, 2017 Friday

From refugee camp to runway, model breaks barriers

LENGTH: 432  words


Roughly one year ago, Denise Wallace, the executive co-director of the Miss
Minnesota USA pageant, received a phone call from 19-year-old Halima Aden asking
if she could compete in the contest wearing her hijab.

Fashion model and former refugee Halima Aden breaks boundaries as the first
hijab-wearing model gracing magazine covers and walking in high profile runway
shows. [Photo/Agencies]

Roughly one year ago, Denise Wallace, the executive co-director of the Miss
Minnesota USA pageant, received a phone call from 19-year-old Halima Aden asking
if she could compete in the contest wearing her hijab.

"Her photo popped up and I remember distinctly going, 'Wow, she is beautiful,'"
Wallace says.

The Somali-American teen made headlines as the first hijab[#xff0d]and
burkini-sporting contestant in the history of the pageant. The bold move
catapulted her career to new heights involving many "firsts," including being
the first hijabi signed by a major modeling agency.

"I wear the hijab everyday," says Aden, who was in New York for Fashion Week.

The hijab[#xff0d]one of the most visible signs of Islamic culture[#xff0d]is
going mainstream, with advertisers, media giants and fashion firms promoting
images of the traditional headscarf in ever more ways.

Nike Inc announced it is using its prowess in the sports and leisure market to
launch a breathable mesh hijab in spring 2018, becoming the first major sports
apparel maker to offer a traditional Islamic head scarf designed for
competition. Teen apparel maker American Eagle Out-fitters Inc created a denim
hijab with Aden as its main model. The youthful headscarf sold out in less than
a week online.

Allure magazine's editor-in-chief, Michelle Lee, is also in the mix, describing
Aden as a "normal American teenage girl" on the front cover of the magazine's
July issue.

"She is someone who is so amazingly representative of who we are as America, as
a melting pot it totally made sense for us," Lee says.

Aden, born in Kakuma, a United Nations refugee camp in Kenya, came to the United
States at age 7 with her family, initially settling in St. Louis.

She fondly recalled her time at the refugee camp saying, "Different people,
different refugees from all over Africa came together in Kakuma. Yet we still
found a common ground."

In America, she was an A-student and homecoming queen. Now, her ultimate goal is
to become a role model for American Muslim youth. "I am doing me and I have no
reason to think that other people are against me," Aden says. "So I just guess
I'm oblivious."

REUTERS

http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1493/91/150543809566.jpg

b083fe96faac1b255cdd3e.jpg

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2017 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                           September 15, 2017 Friday

From refugee camp to runway, model breaks barriers

BYLINE: Elly Park in New York

LENGTH: 404  words


Roughly one year ago, Denise Wallace, the executive co-director of the Miss
Minnesota USA pageant, received a phone call from 19-year-old Halima Aden asking
if she could compete in the contest wearing her hijab.

"Her photo popped up and I remember distinctly going, 'Wow, she is beautiful,'"
Wallace says.

The Somali-American teen made headlines as the first hijab - and
burkini-sporting contestant in the history of the pageant. The bold move
catapulted her career to new heights involving many "firsts," including being
the first hijabi signed by a major modeling agency.

"I wear the hijab everyday," says Aden, who was in New York for Fashion Week.

The hijab - one of the most visible signs of Islamic culture - is going
mainstream, with advertisers, media giants and fashion firms promoting images of
the traditional headscarf in ever more ways.

Nike Inc announced it is using its prowess in the sports and leisure market to
launch a breathable mesh hijab in spring 2018, becoming the first major sports
apparel maker to offer a traditional Islamic head scarf designed for
competition. Teen apparel maker American Eagle Out-fitters Inc created a denim
hijab with Aden as its main model. The youthful headscarf sold out in less than
a week online.

Allure magazine's editor-in-chief, Michelle Lee, is also in the mix, describing
Aden as a "normal American teenage girl" on the front cover of the magazine's
July issue.

"She is someone who is so amazingly representative of who we are as America, as
a melting pot it totally made sense for us," Lee says.

Aden, born in Kakuma, a United Nations refugee camp in Kenya, came to the United
States at age 7 with her family, initially settling in St. Louis.

She fondly recalled her time at the refugee camp saying, "Different people,
different refugees from all over Africa came together in Kakuma. Yet we still
found a common ground."

In America, she was an A-student and homecoming queen. Now, her ultimate goal is
to become a role model for American Muslim youth. "I am doing me and I have no
reason to think that other people are against me," Aden says. "So I just guess
I'm oblivious."

Fashion model and former refugee Halima Aden breaks boundaries as the first
hijab-wearing model gracing magazine covers and walking in high profile runway
shows.Brendan Mcdermid / Reuters

(China Daily 09/15/2017 page19)

http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1493/46/150543826993.jpg

00221917e13e1b2564d840.jpg

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2017 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           Cape Times (South Africa)

                          September 13, 2017 Wednesday
                                   E1 Edition

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 365 words


Reuters

ROUGHLY one year ago, Denise Wallace, executive co-director of the Miss
Minnesota USA pageant, received a phone call from 19-year-old Halima Aden asking
if she could compete in the contest wearing her hijab.

"Her photo popped up and I remember distinctly going, 'Wow, she is beautiful,'"
Wallace said.

The Somali-American teen made headlines as the first hijab- and burkini-sporting
contestant in the history of the pageant. The bold move catapulted her career to
new heights involving many "firsts," including being the first hijabi signed by
a major modeling agency.

"I wear the hijab everyday," Aden, who was in New York for Fashion Week, told
Reuters.

The hijab - one of the most visible signs of Islamic culture - is going
mainstream, with advertisers, media giants and fashion firms promoting images of
the traditional headscarf in ever more ways.

Nike Inc announced it is using its prowess in the sports and leisure market to
launch a breathable mesh hijab in spring 2018, becoming the first major sports
apparel maker to offer a traditional Islamic head scarf designed for
competition. Teen apparel maker American Eagle Outfitters Inc created a denim
hijab with Aden as its main model. The youthful headscarf sold out in less than
a week online.

Allure magazine's editor-in-chief, Michelle Lee, is also in the mix.

"She is someone who is so amazingly representative of who we are as America, as
a melting pot it totally made sense for us," Lee said.

Aden, born in Kakuma, a United Nations refugee camp in Kenya, came to the United
States at age 7 with her family, initially settling in St. Louis.

She fondly recalled her time at the refugee camp saying, "Different people,
different refugees from all over Africa came together in Kakuma. Yet we still
found a common ground."

In America, she was an A-student and homecoming queen. Now, her ultimate goal is
to become a role model for American Muslim youth.

"I am doing me and I have no reason to think that other people are against me,"
Aden said. "So I just guess I'm oblivious."

Aden said she is content being a champion for diversity in the modeling
industry, but in the future she hopes to return to Kakuma to work with refugee
children.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


                Copyright 2017 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 15, 2017 Tuesday

Germany's Merkel reiterates commitment to receive migrants

LENGTH: 679 words


Excerpt from report by German Deutschlandfunk radio on 14 August

From the point of view of Federal Chancellor Angela Merkel, Germany should
continue to play an active role in resolving global problems: the Federal
Republic was currently much more committed than a few years ago, and that would
have to be maintained, she said on DLF.

"When I think of the refugee issue or of the partnership with Africa, I believe
we have done a lot," Merkel said. "But I also have to tell the people in Germany
that we will continue to be engaged." Meanwhile, the link between, for example,
bad conditions for people in Africa and migration streams has been well
understood.

Refugee issue not yet resolved

The refugee crisis of 2015 must not repeat itself, the CDU [Christian Democratic
Union] chairwoman stressed. However, it was regrettable that still no agreement
existed in Europe about the distribution of the refugees. She intended to
continue campaigning for a spirit of solidarity in sharing the burden, yet she
knew that was a "huge challenge."

Merkel also said that the refugee issue had not yet been resolved. However, a
lot had been "put in order and brought under control." That also included the
agreement between the EU and Turkey. She continued to reject an upper limit for
refugees, as demanded by the CSU [Christian social Union], as "still not
appropriate."

US position encouragement for Europe

With reference to the United States, Merkel said that US President Donald
Trump's position to put America's economic interests first could be an
"encouragement to strengthen Europe." That also required Europe to take a common
stand on foreign policy issues.

The chancellor also commented on the conflict between the United States and
North Korea. She urged to resolve it through peaceful means. The sanctions
imposed by the UN Security Council were to be welcomed. What mattered now was to
make sure that things were not decided by the "frequency of rhetoric," but by
finding new communication channels. It would be good in that context if a
regular format was set up again to find a solution to the conflict. Especially
the United States and China needed to cooperate on the issue again.

With regard to domestic policy, the CDU leader intends to maintain a good
relationship with sister party CSU and its chairman Horst Seehofer. "There is no
need to dodge the issue: we do have major differences of opinion," she admitted.
Meanwhile, however, "many steps were taken" in that regard. And the
commonalities predominated, after all.

Asked about a potential government coalition after the Bundestag election on 24
September, Merkel said that the CDU/CSU did not fight "coalition campaigns," but
wanted to make sure to be "strong on our own." The CDU and the CSU would not
enter into a coalition with the Left Party or the AfD [Alternative for Germany].
"Everything else remains to be seen."

Summit just "first step"

With regard to the emissions scandal, the chancellor defended herself against
criticism that she had been on vacation rather than take part in the recent
diesel summit. A situation like that was always a matter of consideration, she
said. The summit had been "a first step," but "others must follow." The next
thing to do in the fall was to summarize all the measures taken so far. "I will
certainly be there then."

Merkel stressed that the automobile industry had made "grave mistakes" in the
diesel scandal" and had especially "gambled away trust." Companies were now
called upon to accept responsibility by providing software updates and
replacement bonuses.

Improving infrastructure for electric cars

Another need was to observe the guidelines on clean air in cities and
conurbations. She would discuss appropriate measures with the communities
affected in the near future. That also included the improvement of the charging
infrastructure for electric cars. "After all, it is of no use if people are
willing to buy electric cars but have no chance to charge them either at their
workplace or at home."

[Passage omitted]

Source: Deutschlandfunk radio in German 0000 gmt 14 Aug 17

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2017 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                   Philly.com

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            August 5, 2017 Saturday

Under Trump's travel ban, a refugee from the Republic of Congo is alone in
America

BYLINE: Jeff Gammage, Philly.com

SECTION: NATIONAL POLITICAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1230 words


Aug. 05--His family was supposed to travel with him, completing their long
escape as refugees from war and genocide in Africa, but Irene Ndizeye arrived in
Philadelphia alone.

He has spent the last six weeks taking English classes, navigating SEPTA,
searching for a job -- and most of all wondering how, or even if, he can bring
his parents and four siblings to the United States.

In that, Ndizeye, 21, has one big asset: a caring group of church members and
resettlement officers eager to help. And he has one big problem: a cascade of
federal court appeals and rulings that has allowed the Trump administration to
dramatically slow the flow of refugees into this country, at least until a full
Supreme Court hearing in October.

Ndizeye's family could be stuck in the Republic of Congo.

"I miss them a lot," he said in French during an interview at St. Raymond of
Penafort Catholic Church in East Mount Airy.

Ndizeye landed in the U.S. with a single suitcase and an uncertain smile.
Resettlement workers, expecting seven people, had to shelve extensive plans to
house and support them. No one understood what went wrong, including Ndizeye,
who figured his family would be on the next plane, only hours or days behind.

That did not happen. A recent WhatsApp message from his parents shed light on
why.

As Ndizeye neared age 18, his father thought he would be better off with his own
independent status as a refugee. One person alone might make it out more easily
than seven, his parents wrote.

And one did.

President Trump's ban on travel from six Muslim-majority countries has generated
confusion, protest, and litigation -- and impacts both broad and specific. Last
month, the Supreme Court offered some clarity on who can enter the country while
legal challenges play out, allowing the "bona fide relationship" needed for
entry to include grandparents and other close relatives of American residents.
But it left in place sweeping restrictions on refugees, barring those with no
close family here.

Ndizeye's hopes for reunification face an added complication: By age 2, his
biological mother was dead, his father missing. The people who saved him as a
baby and raised him to adulthood, the man and woman he calls father and mother,
are his parents by love, not blood.

"He was raised by these folks in every sense of the word," said Dan McVay, a
leader with REST in Philly, the Refugee Empowerment Support Team, which works
with refugees sponsored by Bethany Christian Services.

It's unclear how the courts will view those relationships, especially at a time
when the U.S. government is deporting people who were legally adopted as babies
from places like South Korea, but who as adults are found to lack American
citizenship.

As the clock ticks, critical admission and medical permits might expire for
families hoping to travel to the U.S. or other countries. Some resettlement
agencies have laid off staff as the refugee stream has narrowed.

"People who don't have relatives here are really out of luck for the foreseeable
future," said Rona Buchalter, director of refugee programming and planning at
HIAS Pennsylvania, which provides legal services to those entering the country
as immigrants, refugees, and asylum-seekers. "The whole world right now is in
this same situation of not knowing from week to week."

Ndizeye's family has formal refugee status, and Bethany stands ready to welcome
them, but the agency has had no firm word from Africa on when they might be able
to leave.

"They are scared that they will not be allowed to come here anymore," Ndizeye
said. "But I told them that it's temporary, and that sooner or later we will all
be together again."

On Wednesday, another potential obstacle arose. Trump joined two Republican
senators to tout legislation that would put new limits on legal immigration,
creating a system designed to prize job skills over family ties, and at the same
time halve the number of refugees accepted by the United States. In 2015, about
70,000 people were granted entry as they fled war or violence.

Amid the tumult, McVay and others are introducing Ndizeye to his new country.
They took him rollerskating, to Dorney Park, and to a Trenton Thunder baseball
game, where he tasted cotton candy.

His impression? "It's a country of freedom," he said.

He says he feels guilty for not staying in the Republic of Congo with his
family, for taking the opportunity to leave. He felt it was now or never. And he
may have been right. He arrived June 22, which turned out to be days before the
Supreme Court said it would let parts of Trump's travel ban take effect.

McVay worries that as the shine of a new homeland wears off, Ndizeye will grow
heartsick. Two weeks ago at a central African music festival, McVay said,
Ndizeye seemed a little sad, happy to hear the music but rueful that his family
could not enjoy it too.

His Facebook page shows photos of him dressed in star-spangled shorts, posing
beside a Ben Franklin impersonator, and strolling among bronze statues of the
founders at the National Constitution Center. But he recently changed his
profile picture to an illustration of a dark, shrouded figure, head bowed and
face hidden.

In a way, the arc of his journey was set before his birth. In 1994, the African
nation of Rwanda exploded, as members of the Hutu ethnic majority murdered as
many as 800,000 people in 100 days, most from the Tutsi minority.

Millions who ran for their lives ended up across the border, in refugee camps in
the Democratic Republic of Congo. Ndizeye was born there on May 30, 1996. Five
months later, Rwandan troops attacked the border camps, killing thousands in
what they called an assault against extremists.

Ndizeye's biological parents fled with their baby to a second camp in a third
country, landing near the capital of Brazzaville in the Republic of Congo.
There, he lost them, and was informally adopted by a couple who were friends of
his mother. Refugees generally have no standing in the country where they live,
no path to citizenship, no work, no money, and no recourse.

"Many of them feel like they have nothing left to lose -- their lives are next,"
said Peter Gottemoller, director of Pennsylvania refugee programs for Bethany in
Philadelphia.

When Irene (pronounced E-René) was 5 or 6, his family managed to leave the camp
and move to Brazzaville. As he grew, he dropped out of school to support the
family. Ndizeye earned money pushing a wheelbarrow, toting packages from the
local markets to people's homes. Later he got a job selling cellphone minutes.

As the eldest child, he said, it was his duty to support his siblings and
parents. It remains his duty now, he added.  He's quickly learning English --
his fourth language -- and has secured a Society Security number and state
identification card.

Ndizeye knows President Trump has spoken harshly of immigrants, but says it
makes no difference. He doesn't need kind words. He needs a job, and the type of
work doesn't matter.

"Whatever was happening in Africa," he said, "was worse."

69,933 -- Refugees admitted to the U.S. in 2015.

2,764 -- Refugees resettled in Pennsylvania that year.

637 -- Refugees from Bhutan, the largest sending country to Pennsylvania.

1 -- Refugees from Jordan, tied with four other countries for the lowest sending
nation to Pennsylvania.

___ (c)2017 Philly.com Visit Philly.com at www.philly.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170805-PHI-Under-Trump-s-travel-ban-a-refugee
-from-the-Republic-of-Congo-is-alone-in-America-0805-20170805

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PHI


                                 Copyright 2017


                              129 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            July 19, 2017 Wednesday

Washington: Two Years Later: Hatch Reunites with Utah Refugee Scout Troop

LENGTH: 290  words

DATELINE: New York



Washington: Office of the Senator Orrin Hatch has issued the following news
release:
Two years after helping refugees obtain travel visas to visit their home
countries, Senator Hatch reunited with one of Utah's refugee Boy Scout troops,
Troop 3253, in his Washington office this morning. The young boys are Karen and
Karenni refugees who came to Utah from refugee camps in Thailand after fleeing
from Myanmar. The troop is in Washington for the National Scout Jamboree later
this week.


Since Senator Hatch first met the Scouts in July 2015, the program has grown
tremendously as refugees become actively involved in scouting in an effort to
strengthen ties with the larger Utah community.
Chairman Nebeker said, "Without Senator Hatch and his team getting us to Japan,
we would be nowhere near where we are today. Refugee Scouting is now springing
up all over the country thanks to the example set in Utah. Once again, Utah
leads the way for a better country, better citizenry and work ethic.
There are now 250 refugee scouts and there will be 500 by the end of 2017.
Michael Nebeker serves as chairman under the auspices of the Boy Scouts of
America and the Salt Lake Council, along with six Vice-Chairs. These leaders
have recruited 70 men and women adult Scout Leaders to direct the following
Troops:
    Karen & Karenni
     Nepali
     Thai/Laotian
     Swahili-speaking from East Africa
     Vietnamese
     Three Muslim Troops under the auspices of the Islamic Society of Utah,
including scouts from Africa and the Middle East.
These troops have received funding from the LDS Church, The Larry H. Miller
Foundation, Utah Senate Appropriations, the Yamagata Foundation, the Eccles
Foundation, 100 Women Who Care, and private donors.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             June 22, 2017 Thursday

Washington: WORLD REFUGEE DAY

LENGTH: 815  words

DATELINE: New York



Washington: The Library of Congress, The Government of USA has issued the
following house proceeding:
 The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Illinois (Mr.
Gutierrez) for 5 minutes. Mr. GUTIERREZ. Mr. Speaker, yesterday was World
Refugee Day, a day set aside by the United Nations to reflect upon those in
crisis and dedicate ourselves to helping those we can help.

To mark this solemn occasion, today, the Judiciary Committee House Republicans
will vote to slash refugee resettlement numbers, cut back aid to those fleeing
violence and persecution for their religious or political beliefs, and make it
harder for children fleeing violence, especially those from Central America,
from receiving asylum from the richest, most powerful Nation in the world. Tell
me, how does that make America great again, Mr. Speaker? According to the U.N.
High Commissioner for Refugees, there are more than 65 million people--a record
number today--who have been forcibly displaced from their homes. More than 21
million are refugees. Eighty- six percent of the world's refugees are now
finding refuge in the developing world, with only 14 percent finding refuge in
developed countries like the U.S. or European nations. Worldwide, more than half
of all refugees are children. So when anti- immigrant leaders, websites, and TV
networks paint those fleeing the Middle East, Africa, and Asia as hardened
jihadists, or those fleeing Central America as gangbangers and drug dealers,
remember, most of them are just kids--little kids. That is what we are talking
about, fleeing their country for their lives. Mr. Speaker, America has,
throughout our history, been a beacon of hope to refugees fleeing religious
attacks, facing government intolerance and persecution, ethnic strife, or
unsustainable poverty. Beginning in the 1840s, when the potato crop disappeared
because of a blight in Ireland, the Irish people were left starving. Over 8
million people in Ireland, 3 to 4 million of them faced starvation. About 1
million died mostly of starvation and disease. Another 2 million came where? To
America. According to a recent article in The Irish Times: ``Panic had set in by
the winter of 1846/47. People risked winter voyages across the Atlantic on
unsanitary, unsafe `coffin ships.' '' The article continues: ``People were
placed in quarantine stations, or held onboard ships docked at ports.''
``Refugees experienced violent and racist reactions. Liverpool, Glasgow'' . . .
``Montreal, Boston, New York, and Philadelphia sought unsuccessfully to restrict
entry'' of the Irish. A lot of this sounds familiar to me today when we discuss
the Muslim ban that the courts have blocked and which motivated thousands of
Americans to go to airports to demand that the United States honor its visas and
honor its commitment to refugees, or as the House Judiciary Committee meets
today, to punish children for fleeing for their lives. Roughly 32 million
Americans trace their roots to Ireland. That is about 10 percent of the U.S.
population. And let's be clear, the British rulers over Ireland were not sending
what they consider their best people. They were poor, they were uneducated, and
U.S. politicians at the time said that they were sending rapists, murderers, and
drunks, even as some, they assumed, were good people. They were from a religion
that threatened the United States. They were Catholics who were as foreign to
American Protestants, in some regards, as Muslims are today. But who can imagine
America without the Irish today? You look down the list of generals, Presidents,
Members of Congress, and every aspect of American society today, and we can all
say, to some degree, we are Irish. As House Republicans vote today to pass bills
to keep out the wretched refuse of your teeming shores, as we pass laws to pull
up the drawbridge and put a big ``Do Not Enter'' sign on the Statue of Liberty,
I hope my Republican colleagues who can trace roots back to someone who came
across the water and risked everything and bet their lives on the United States,
I hope all of us will reflect on those ancestors as we deliberate laws and how
we would have kept so many of them out. [[Page H4998]] His Holiness Pope
Francis, who we all remember just spoke steps away from where I am at right now,
reminded us to always follow the Golden Rule in all our deliberations. Pope
Francis said just this past Sunday that the nations of the world should continue
to welcome refugees; and each of us, as individuals, can learn a lot by meeting
with, speaking with, and breaking bread with refugees. His Holiness said: `` . .
. personal meetings with refugees can dissolve fears and distorted ideologies
and become paths for growth in humanity.'' Mr. Speaker, I hope my Republican
colleagues have been listening, as we have a Speaker who is both Catholic and
Irish, but I fear they will not.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            June 21, 2017 Wednesday

Washington: SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS

LENGTH: 1758  words

DATELINE: New York



Washington: The Library of Congress, The Government of USA has issued the
following house proceeding:
 SENATE RESOLUTION 195--RECOGNIZING JUNE 20, 2017, AS ``WORLD REFUGEE DAY'' Mr.
CARDIN (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Coons, Mr.
Markey, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. Booker, Mr. Franken, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr.
Merkley, Mr. Kaine, Mr. Bennet, and Mr. Brown) submitted the following
resolution; which was referred to the Committee on Foreign Relations: Mr.
CARDIN. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce a resolution to mark World
Refugee Day, and to address the ongoing displacement crisis across the globe.
War, conflict and persecution have forced millions of people to leave their
homes, creating more refugees, asylum seekers and internally displaced people
than at any other time in history. Today, there are more than 65 million
displaced men, women, and children worldwide, the highest level ever recorded in
history.

To put this number into perspective--if the global displaced population were a
country, it would be the 21st largest country, more populated than the United
Kingdom. [[Page S3653]] The global displacement trends we are witnessing now,
due to conflict, severe human rights abuses, and climate change, are not going
away. U.S. leadership in responding to these crises, whether it is the immense
suffering of refugees from South Sudan or the plight of the internally-displaced
in Syria and Iraq, is critical. How we respond--or whether we respond at
all--will undoubtedly shape the landscape and the lives of future generations
for years to come. The United States has a long and proud history of providing
safe harbor to the world's most vulnerable refugees--women and children,
survivors of torture and other violence, and those with severe medical
conditions. This included after World War II and after the fall of Saigon, when
we resettled hundreds of thousands of refugees. At the same time, we take the
security of our citizens seriously. That is the reason the United States has the
most rigorous refugee screening process in the world, involving the Department
of Defense, Department of State, Department of Homeland Security, Federal Bureau
of Investigation, and National Counter Terrorism Center. The process includes
biometric checks, medical screenings, forensic testing of documents, DNA testing
for family reunification cases, and in-person interviews with highly trained
homeland security officials. The U.S. Refugee Resettlement program has been and
should remain open to those of all nationalities and religions who face
persecution. The Trump Administration's proposals that would have the U.S. State
Department disqualify refugees from protection based on their nationality or
religion fly in the face of the very principles this Nation was built upon. They
also contradict the legacy of leadership our country has historically
demonstrated, and dishonor our shared humanity. It is clear, however, that the
Trump Administration is determined to undermine longstanding American tradition
and values, and in doing so they weaken our National security. As we all know,
one of President Trump's first executive orders sought to drastically reduce the
number of refugees entering the United States and turn away refugees from Iran,
Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, and Yemen. This un-American policy, rooted in fear
not fact, cannot be tolerated. We collectively must reject the misplaced notion
that some refugees are more deserving of protection than others. Again and
again, the Federal courts are signaling to the White House a real need for the
President to immediately rescind his discriminatory executive order targeting
Muslim refugees and travelers. Even while stayed by the courts, President
Trump's executive orders have made America less safe, damaged our relationships
with our allies, and harmed countless numbers of law-abiding citizens,
travelers, and their families. America is a compassionate nation steeped with a
history of welcoming immigrants and refugees. I was proud to join Members of
Congress who filed legal briefs in opposition to the President's discriminatory
executive orders, along with HIAS in Silver Spring, Maryland, whose motto is to
``welcome the stranger'' and ``protect the refugee.'' Recently the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Fourth Circuit provided a valuable check and balance on the
President's authority. The court correctly pointed out that the President's most
recent Executive Order ``speaks with vague words of national security, but in
context drips with religious intolerance, animus, and discrimination'' which
violates the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment. No American president
is above the law. Turning away refugees--whether they are from Syria or Somalia,
Burma or Iraq, whether they are Muslims or Christians, Hindus or Jews--means
turning our backs on the international humanitarian system and the mechanisms of
stability and security that are the bedrocks of international order. Refugees
remain powerful ambassadors of the American Dream and our Nation's founding
principles of equal opportunity, religious freedom, and liberty and justice for
all. The Trump Administration again revealed its determination to erode American
leadership with the release of its Fiscal Year 2018 Budget request. Their FY18
budget represents a wholesale repudiation of U.S. global leadership on virtually
every critical matter, including humanitarian assistance and protection of the
most vulnerable populations. The President's budget called for a 44 percent cut
in humanitarian assistance--a truly horrifying reduction made even more
appalling given the level of global need. According to a group of leading NGOs,
the human cost of these cuts could be staggering. The proposed 18 percent cut to
the Migration and Refugee Assistance account could result in over 3.5 million
refugees and internally displaced persons not receiving assistance globally,
including about 1 million in the Middle East and 1.1 million in Africa. The
United States has been a beacon of hope for so many around the world for
centuries, and it is imperative that we remain so for others in this century,
and beyond. We need to be unified on this and the United States must lead by
example. It is a universal human desire to live in peace and security and to
create a better life for our families and loved ones. We must do our part to
facilitate that. We need to keep our doors--and our hearts--open to those who so
desperately need safe harbor. S. Res. 195 Whereas World Refugee Day is an
opportunity to acknowledge the courage, strength, and determination of women,
men, and children forced to flee their homes due to conflict, violence, and
persecution; Whereas according to the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees (referred to in this Resolution as ``UNHCR'')-- (1) there are more than
65,600,000 displaced people worldwide, the highest level ever recorded,
including nearly 22,500,000 refugees, more than 40,300,000 internally displaced
people, and 2,800,000 people seeking asylum; (2) children account for 51 percent
of the global refugee population, millions of whom are unable to access basic
services, including education; (3) 10,300,000 people were newly displaced due to
conflict or persecution in 2016; (4) more than 5,500,000 refugees have fled
Syria since the start of the conflict, and more than 6,300,000 people are
displaced inside Syria; (5) since January 2014, more than 3,000,000 Iraqis
fleeing violence have been internally displaced, and 257,000 refugees have fled
to neighboring countries; (6) South Sudan has the world's fastest-growing
refugee crisis, which is now the largest refugee crisis in Africa, with more
than 1,800,000 refugees, including 1,000,000 children; (7) increasing violence
in Guatemala, El Salvador, and Honduras has led to a growing number of
unaccompanied child refugees, who are particularly vulnerable to sexual
violence, human trafficking, and kidnapping; and (8) ongoing conflict, violence,
and persecution have resulted in the displacement of millions in Ukraine,
Colombia, and the Central African Republic; Whereas 84 percent of the world's
refugees are hosted in developing regions, with more than 28 percent hosted in
the world's least developed countries; Whereas refugees who are women and
children are often at greater risk of violence, human trafficking, exploitation,
and gender-based violence; Whereas the United States resettlement program is a
life- saving solution critical to global humanitarian efforts, which reflects
American values, strengthens global security, and alleviates the burden placed
on front-line host countries; Whereas refugees are the most vetted travelers to
enter the United States and are subject to extensive screening checks, including
in person interviews, biometric data checks, and multiple interagency checks;
Whereas refugees contribute to their communities by starting businesses, paying
taxes, and sharing their cultural traditions; and Whereas refugees contribute
more than they consume in state-funded services, including schooling and health
care: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Senate-- (1) reaffirms the
bipartisan commitment of the United States to promote the safety, health, and
well-being of the millions of refugees; (2) recognizes those individuals who
have risked their lives working individually and for nongovernmental
organizations and international agencies, such as UNHCR, to provide life-saving
assistance and protection for people displaced by conflict around the world; (3)
underscores the importance of the United States Refugee Resettlement Program as
a critical tool for United States global leadership; (4) calls upon the United
States Government-- (A) to continue providing robust funding for refugee
protection overseas and resettlement in the United States; (B) to uphold its
international leadership role in responding to displacement crises with
humanitarian assistance and protection of the most vulnerable populations; and
(C) to alleviate the burden on refugee host countries through humanitarian and
development support while maintaining the [[Page S3654]] United States'
long-standing tradition of resettling the most vulnerable refugees regardless of
their country of origin or religious beliefs; (5) reaffirms the goals of World
Refugee Day; and (6) reiterates the strong commitment of the United States to
seek to protect the millions of refugees who live without material, social, or
legal protections.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            June 21, 2017 Wednesday

Washington: To Mark World Refugee Day, GOP Will Slash Refugees, Erect Barriers
for Asylum Seekers & Make It Harder for Central American Children

LENGTH: 1368  words

DATELINE: New York



Washington: Office of the MP Luis V. Gutierrez has issued the following news
release:

Today, Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL) spoke on the House floor to take note of
the hearing this morning in the House Judiciary Committee to pass Republican
bills to slash refugee numbers and make it harder for asylum seekers to find
safety in the U.S.  This comes just one day after World Refugee Day, a day "to
reflect upon those in crisis and dedicate ourselves to helping those we can
help," the Congressman said.


Standing in front of a replica of the "Irish Need Not Apply" signs from the 19th
century, Rep. Gutiérrez noted that the bills voted on in Committee today would
have kept many of the Irish out.  He said:
    Roughly 32 million Americans trace their roots to Ireland, that's about 10%
of the U.S. population. And, let's be clear, the British rulers over Ireland
were not sending what they considered their best people. They were poor, they
were uneducated, and U.S. politicians at the time said they were sending rapists
and murderers and drunks - even if some, they assumed, were good people... But
who can imagine America without the Irish today?
In his speech, Rep. Gutiérrez recalled the history of - and resistance to -
Irish migration, the quarantines and laws to keep them out, and the fear of
Catholicism.  He said:
    A lot of this sounds familiar to me today as we discuss the Muslim Ban that
the courts have blocked and which motivated thousands of Americans to go to
airports to demand that the United States honor its visas and honor its
commitment to refugees; Or as the House Judiciary Committee meets today to
punish children fleeing violence in Central America.
The Congressman, concluded by noting that the current Speaker of the House and
countless others in the Congress, the White House and throughout American
society, are descendants of the Irish Catholic wave of migrants, and that they
should heed the words, just this past weekend, of Pope Francis who discussed the
benefits of meeting with and getting to know refugees.  The Congressman said:
    His Holiness said "personal meetings with refugees can dissolve fears and
distorted ideologies and become paths for growth in humanity." Mr. Speaker, I
hope my Republican colleagues, including our Speaker who is both Irish and
Catholic, had been listening, but I fear they were not.
A video of the Congressman's floor speech is here: https://youtu.be/Lha5qLd7rgI

The text (as prepared for delivery) is pasted below.
Rep. Gutiérrez is in his 13th term representing the Fourth District of Illinois.
He is a Member of the Judiciary Committee and is the Chair of the Immigration
Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.
FLOOR SPEECH
June 21, 2017
    Mr. Speaker: Yesterday was World Refugee Day, a day set aside by the United
Nations to reflect upon those in crisis and dedicate ourselves to helping those
we can help.
    To mark this solemn occasion, today in the Judiciary Committee, House
Republicans will vote to slash refugee resettlement numbers, cut back aid to
those fleeing violence and persecution for their religious or political beliefs,
and make it harder for children fleeing violence - especially those from Central
America - from receiving asylum from the richest, freest nation in the world.
    Tell me, how does that "Make America Great Again" Mr. Speaker?
    According to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, there are more than 65
million people--a record number--who have been forcibly displaced from their
homes.  More than 21 million are refugees.
    War - like the fighting in Somalia, Afghanistan and Syria - is one of the
main causes of displacement.  Almost half of the Syrian population has been
displaced.
    But famine and political persecution, instability and violence are also big
contributing factors.
    86 percent of the world's refugees are now finding refuge in the developing
world, with only 14 percent finding refuge in developed countries like the U.S.,
Canada and European nations.
    Worldwide, more than half of all refugees are children under 18.
    So when anti-immigrant leaders, websites, and TV networks paint those
fleeing the Middle East, Africa and Asia as hardened jihadists - or those
fleeing Central America as gang-leaders and drug kingpins - remember, for the
most part, we are actually talking about children fleeing for their lives, with
their parents who are desperate to find a safe place for their children to grow
up and thrive.
    Mr. Speaker, America has throughout our history been a beacon of hope to
refugees fleeing religious attacks, facing government intolerance and
persecution, ethnic strife or unsustainable poverty.
    And this dates back long before those words were etched in the Statue of
Liberty about "give us your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to
breathe free."
    Beginning in the 1840s, when the potato crop disappeared because of a blight
in Ireland, the Irish people were left starving.
    Of the 8 million people in Ireland, 3 to 4 million faced starvation, about 1
million died, mostly of starvation and disease, and another 2 million came to
North America, primarily to the US and Canada.
    According to a recent article in The Irish Times,
    "Panic had set in by winter 1846/47. People risked winter voyages across the
Atlantic on unsanitary, unsafe 'coffin ships'"
    The article continues:
    "People were placed in quarantine stations, or held onboard ships docked at
ports...Refugees experienced violent and racist reactions. Liverpool, Glasgow
and Edinburgh, Montreal, Boston, New York and Philadelphia sought unsuccessfully
to restrict entry."
    A lot of this sounds familiar to me today as we discuss the Muslim Ban that
the courts have blocked and which motivated thousands of Americans to go to
airports to demand that the United States honor its visas and honor its
commitment to refugees; Or as the House Judiciary Committee meets today to
punish children fleeing violence in Central America.
    Roughly 32 million Americans trace their roots to Ireland, that's about 10%
of the U.S. population.
    And, let's be clear, the British rulers over Ireland were not sending what
they considered their best people.  They were poor, they were uneducated, and
U.S. politicians at the time said they were sending rapists and murderers and
drunks - even if some, they assumed, were good people.
    They were from a religion that threatened the United States.  They were
Catholics, who were as foreign to American Protestants in some regards as
Muslims are today.
    Americans said they would never be loyal to the U.S. and would only be loyal
to Rome.  They did not share our values of hard work and family, of sobriety or
abiding by laws.
    But who can imagine America without the Irish today?
    You look down the list of Generals and Presidents, Members of Congress,
Senators, entertainers, business leaders and every aspect of American society -
today in America we can all say we are Irish to some degree.
    As House Republicans vote today to pass bills to keep out the "wretched
refuse of your teeming shore..." - as we pass laws to pull up the draw bridge
and put a big "Do Not Enter" sign on the Statue of Liberty, I hope my Republican
colleagues who can trace roots back to someone who came across the water, risked
everything, and bet their lives on the United States - I hope all of us will
reflect on those ancestors as we deliberate laws that would have kept many of
them out.
    His Holiness Pope Francis, who we all remember spoke just steps from where I
am now and reminded us to always remember the Golden Rule in all our
deliberations - Pope Francis said just this past Sunday that the nations of the
world should continue to welcome refugees; and each of us as individuals can
learn a lot by meeting with, speaking with, and breaking bread with refugees.
His Holiness said, "personal meetings with refugees can dissolve fears and
distorted ideologies and become paths for growth in humanity."
    Mr. Speaker, I hope my Republican colleagues, including our Speaker who is
both Irish and Catholic, had been listening, but I fear they were not.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                               The Daily Monitor

                             June 10, 2017 Saturday

Refugee crisis: US Citizen donates USD100 to Museveni

BYLINE: Agencies

LENGTH: 298  words


Adrienne wrote a short letter to President Museveni thanking him and Ugandans
for allowing refugees into the East African country

Adrienne Douglas, a national of the United States of America has commended
Ugandans for being accommodative to refugees. Adrienne wrote a short letter to
President Museveni thanking him and Ugandans for allowing refugees into the East
African country. The resident of Claremont, California, stated that the kindness
of the president serves as an example to people all over the world.

"Dear President Yoweri Museveni, I believe that your action towards refugees
that you have allowed into your country are to be admired and your kindness
serves as an example to people all over the world," the 55 year old wrote. She
enclosed a Postal Money Order cheque worth USD 100 and said the money is towards
support to the people of Uganda. Uganda, ranked as the second-largest refugee
-hosting country in the world after Turkey, hosts over 1.3million refugees in
the region. These include 900,000 South Sudanese, 50,000 Burundians, 20,000
Rwandans, 44,000 Somalis, and 280,000 nationals of the Democratic Republic of
Congo. Uganda also hosts 13,000 Eritreans and 11,000 Sudanese. "This is noble.
Every effort to support refugees is welcome. Accepting refugees is part of our
solidarity. I want to thank Mrs. Adrienne Douglas for supporting this cause," he
said. In January, during a meeting between President Museveni and the UN
Secretary General Antonio Guterres, at the sidelines of the 28th Africa Union
Summit in Addis Ababa, President Yoweri Museveni called for a solidarity
conference on refugees. The Conference to be co-hosted by Uganda and the United
Nations is now set for June 22, 2017 in Uganda and it is aimed at mobilizing
resources for refugees in Uganda.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1148


                       Copyright 2017 Nation Media Group
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                         June 5, 2017 Monday 00:00 EST

What We Lose by Barring Refugees;
Contributing Op-Ed Writer

BYLINE: ANTONY J. BLINKEN

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1053 words



HIGHLIGHT: After the most recent London attacks, President Trump doubled down on
his call for a travel ban. But that ban has never really been about security.


President Trump's eruption of tweets in response to the London terror attacks
doubled down on his self-described travel ban: "We need the courts to give us
back our rights. We need the travel ban as an extra level of safety!"

Mr. Trump knows that banning travel to the United States from a half dozen
Muslim-majority countries would do nothing to enhance our security -- and
everything to undermine it. The threat we face is mostly home grown. The
perpetrators of recent attacks in Britain, France and Belgium were all citizens
or longtime residents of those countries -- and none of those attackers would
have been subject to the ban had they wanted to bring terrorism to the United
States. By alienating Muslim communities and our closest allies, Mr. Trump would
destroy the partnerships we need to effectively fight terror.

Mr. Trump's travel ban has never really been about security. Rather, it's the
tip of the spear in a much broader battle: to drastically curtail immigration to
the United States that is changing the complexion of our country. One week
before the London attacks, Mr. Trump waged his latest offensive in that effort
at the meeting of the Group of 7 leading economic powers.

Taormina, the Sicilian coastal city that hosted the G7, has long been a
playground for the jet set. But Italy chose the locale to spotlight a different
dimension of the human condition: the hundreds of thousands of refugees who, in
desperation, put their lives on the line to cross the Mediterranean from North
Africa and the Middle East every year.

While Mr. Trump's pronouncements on trade and climate change drew most of the
attention, behind the scenes the drama over migration policy was just as intense
-- and just as far-reaching in its consequences.

We are in the midst of the largest wave of human displacement since World War
II. Around the world, 65 million people -- including 21 million refugees -- are
on the move, forced from home by war, violence, economic deprivation and climate
change. If they all came together in one country, it would be about the size of
Britain. Instead, they are spread across the planet -- putting pressure on
national borders; straining budgets, infrastructure and social services;
reshaping economies and communities; affecting our sense of security; but most
of all challenging us to live up to our common humanity.

Italy hoped the G7 would issue a detailed stand-alone policy statement and
emphasize the obligation of developed nations to resettle more migrants and
refugees, who on average spend 10 years away from their home countries. Most G7
members rallied behind Italy's action plan and conviction that a global problem
demands a global response.

The United States said no. The White House scuttled the stand-alone statement
and sought to water down any migration references in the summit conference's
final communiqué -- especially language that implied an obligation to take in
more refugees. Only a furious effort by Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni of Italy
preserved a bare-minimum mention of Italy's proposed migration plan in the
communiqué. That plan would have committed the G7 to find more permanent homes
for refugees, increase financial assistance and support schooling for children
and jobs for adults.

Back home, the Trump administration seeks to halve the number of refugees
admitted each year while pressing its travel ban, which has been struck down by
federal courts and may soon wind up before the Supreme Court. It has proposed
draconian budget cuts for humanitarian and development assistance, diplomacy and
the United Nations -- whose agencies play a key role in supporting refugees and
their host communities. And Mr. Trump returned from the G7 just in time to walk
away from the Paris climate accord.

This completes Washington's own perilous journey: In less than one year, it has
gone from mobilizing the international community in search of solutions to the
migration crisis to a total abdication of leadership.

Just nine months ago, President Obama convened a special leaders summit meeting
on refugees during the United Nations General Assembly. Fifty-two countries made
commitments to increase their financial contributions to international
humanitarian organizations by $4.5 billion over 2015 levels, double the number
of refugees they resettle, and improve access to education for one million
refugee children and to lawful work for one million adults. As well, 50 leading
American companies committed to provide education opportunities for 80,000
refugees and employment possibilities for 200,000.

And the United States did more to lead by example, raising the ceiling on annual
refugee admissions to 110,000, including 10,000 Syrians. That was not enough,
but it was a step toward reclaiming America's place as the last best hope on
earth.

That hope gave life to my own family, as it did so many generations of new
Americans.

My father's father fled a pogrom in Russia in the early 20th century and was
welcomed to the United States. So was my stepmother, who escaped as a young girl
from Communist Hungary in 1950.

And then there was my stepfather, one of 900 children in his school in
Bialystok, Poland, but the only one to survive the Holocaust, after four years
in the concentration camps.

At the end of the war he made a break from a death march, into the Bavarian
woods. Days later, he heard the rumbling sound of a tank and looked out from his
hiding place. Instead of the dreaded swastika, he saw a five-pointed white star.
He ran to the star. The tank's hatch opened and a large African-American soldier
looked down at him. He fell to his knees and said the only three words in
English that he knew, taught to him by his mother: God bless America. The G.I.
lifted him into the tank, into America, into freedom.

That's who we are. That's what America represents to the world, however
imperfectly. And that's what we now risk losing, piece by piece, with an
administration that would keep that tank hatch slammed shut.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

Antony J. Blinken (@ABlinken), a managing director of the Penn Biden Center for
Diplomacy and Global Engagement, was a deputy secretary of state in the Obama
administration and is a contributing opinion writer.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                   The New York Times - International Edition

                              June 5, 2017 Monday

What We Lose by Barring Refugees;
Contributing Op-Ed Writer

BYLINE: ANTONY J. BLINKEN

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1080 words

ABSTRACT

After the most recent London attacks, President Trump doubled down on his call
for a travel ban. But that ban has never really been about security.

FULL TEXT

President Trump's eruption of tweets in response to the London terror attacks
doubled down on his self-described travel ban: "We need the courts to give us
back our rights. We need the travel ban as an extra level of safety!"

Mr. Trump knows that banning travel to the United States from a half dozen
Muslim-majority countries would do nothing to enhance our security - and
everything to undermine it. The threat we face is mostly home grown. The
perpetrators of recent attacks in Britain, France and Belgium were all citizens
or longtime residents of those countries - and none of those attackers would
have been subject to the ban had they wanted to bring terrorism to the United
States. By alienating Muslim communities and our closest allies, Mr. Trump would
destroy the partnerships we need to effectively fight terror.

Mr. Trump's travel ban has never really been about security. Rather, it's the
tip of the spear in a much broader battle: to drastically curtail immigration to
the United States that is changing the complexion of our country. One week
before the London attacks, Mr. Trump waged his latest offensive in that effort
at the meeting of the Group of 7 leading economic powers.

Taormina, the Sicilian coastal city that hosted the G7, has long been a
playground for the jet set. But Italy chose the locale to spotlight a different
dimension of the human condition: the hundreds of thousands of refugees who, in
desperation, put their lives on the line to cross the Mediterranean from North
Africa and the Middle East every year.

While Mr. Trump's pronouncements on trade and climate change drew most of the
attention, behind the scenes the drama over migration policy was just as intense
- and just as far-reaching in its consequences.

We are in the midst of the largest wave of human displacement since World War
II. Around the world, 65 million people - including 21 million refugees - are on
the move, forced from home by war, violence, economic deprivation and climate
change. If they all came together in one country, it would be about the size of
Britain. Instead, they are spread across the planet - putting pressure on
national borders; straining budgets, infrastructure and social services;
reshaping economies and communities; affecting our sense of security; but most
of all challenging us to live up to our common humanity.

Italy hoped the G7 would issue a detailed stand-alone policy statement and
emphasize the obligation of developed nations to resettle more migrants and
refugees, who on average spend 10 years away from their home countries. Most G7
members rallied behind Italy's action plan and conviction that a global problem
demands a global response.

The United States said no. The White House scuttled the stand-alone statement
and sought to water down any migration references in the summit conference's
final communiqué - especially language that implied an obligation to take in
more refugees. Only a furious effort by Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni of Italy
preserved a bare-minimum mention of Italy's proposed migration plan in the
communiqué. That plan would have committed the G7 to find more permanent homes
for refugees, increase financial assistance and support schooling for children
and jobs for adults.

Back home, the Trump administration seeks to halve the number of refugees
admitted each year while pressing its travel ban, which has been struck down by
federal courts and may soon wind up before the Supreme Court. It has proposed
draconian budget cuts for humanitarian and development assistance, diplomacy and
the United Nations - whose agencies play a key role in supporting refugees and
their host communities. And Mr. Trump returned from the G7 just in time to walk
away from the Paris climate accord.

This completes Washington's own perilous journey: In less than one year, it has
gone from mobilizing the international community in search of solutions to the
migration crisis to a total abdication of leadership.

Just nine months ago, President Obama convened a special leaders summit meeting
on refugees during the United Nations General Assembly. Fifty-two countries made
commitments to increase their financial contributions to international
humanitarian organizations by $4.5 billion over 2015 levels, double the number
of refugees they resettle, and improve access to education for one million
refugee children and to lawful work for one million adults. As well, 50 leading
American companies committed to provide education opportunities for 80,000
refugees and employment possibilities for 200,000.

And the United States did more to lead by example, raising the ceiling on annual
refugee admissions to 110,000, including 10,000 Syrians. That was not enough,
but it was a step toward reclaiming America's place as the last best hope on
earth.

That hope gave life to my own family, as it did so many generations of new
Americans.

My father's father fled a pogrom in Russia in the early 20th century and was
welcomed to the United States. So was my stepmother, who escaped as a young girl
from Communist Hungary in 1950.

And then there was my stepfather, one of 900 children in his school in
Bialystok, Poland, but the only one to survive the Holocaust, after four years
in the concentration camps.

At the end of the war he made a break from a death march, into the Bavarian
woods. Days later, he heard the rumbling sound of a tank and looked out from his
hiding place. Instead of the dreaded swastika, he saw a five-pointed white star.
He ran to the star. The tank's hatch opened and a large African-American soldier
looked down at him. He fell to his knees and said the only three words in
English that he knew, taught to him by his mother: God bless America. The G.I.
lifted him into the tank, into America, into freedom.

That's who we are. That's what America represents to the world, however
imperfectly. And that's what we now risk losing, piece by piece, with an
administration that would keep that tank hatch slammed shut.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

Antony J. Blinken (@ABlinken), a managing director of the Penn Biden Center for
Diplomacy and Global Engagement, was a deputy secretary of state in the Obama
administration and is a contributing opinion writer.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                    The Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                             May 24, 2017 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Hamilton's long history of welcoming immigrants and refugees

SECTION: FOC; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 374 words


Hamilton has long been one of Canada's top destinations for people coming from
somewhere else - by their own choice as immigrants, or out of necessity as
refugees.

Nearly half of Hamilton residents 65 years of age and older were born outside
Canada, a testament to the city's legacy as a major industrial employer during
the 1950s, '60s and '70s.

During the 1800s, immigrants to Hamilton came predominantly from Ireland,
Scotland and England.

The overwhelming numbers of refugees now passing through Buffalo's Vive centre
to Canada has been likened to a modern-day Underground Railroad.

Back in the mid-1800s, Hamilton was an important stop on the original
Underground Railroad for blacks escaping from slavery in the United States.

Hundreds of black people settled in Hamilton during that time, including a
thriving community on Concession Street on the Mountain that was dubbed Little
Africa.

In the early part of the 20th century, the main sources of immigrants were
Italy, Poland and Hungary.

After the end of the Second World War, there was a massive influx of immigrants
from Italy and Portugal.

In the past half century, refugees have been a large proportion of the city's
newcomers.

One study showed that as much as one-third of all Hamilton residents born
outside the country entered Canada as refugees, the highest such proportion in
Canada.

During the 1970s, the principal source of refugees was Vietnam. More recently,
Hamilton's refugees have come from Myanmar, Somalia, Kosovo, Colombia, Iraq,
Honduras, El Salvador and Afghanistan.

From late 2015 to early 2017, Hamilton also became home for nearly 1,500
refugees from Syria.

The author

Spectator investigative reporter Steve Buist is the creator of The Spectator's
highly acclaimed Code Red project, which has examined issues of income
inequality and health in Hamilton. He has won three National Newspaper Awards,
been named Canada's investigative journalist of the year three times and
Ontario's journalist of the year five times.

The series

Saturday

Refugees massing at the U.S. border

Tuesday

Validating claims at the Peace Bridge Newcomer Centre

Wednesday

Finding home in Canada

This series was done in partnership with

The Buffalo News.

To view their reporting on the topic, go to:

buffalonews.com

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The Chronicle Journal

                              May 19, 2017 Friday

[Refugee-Frostbite, 2nd Writethru code:2 Update:RECASTS with quotes; ADDS
details INDEX: National,]

SECTION: GENERAL NEWS

LENGTH: 635  words


Refugee-Frostbite, 2nd Writethru

code:2

Update:RECASTS with quotes; ADDS details

INDEX: National, Social, Justice

HL:Refugee claimant who walked across Manitoba border granted refugee status

By Steve Lambert

THE CANADIAN PRESS

WINNIPEG - Five months after nearly freezing to death on a treacherous walk
across the Canada-U.S. border, and still learning to get along without the 10
fingers and thumbs he lost to frostbite, Seidu Mohammed is happy.

He gets to stay in Canada.

The Immigration and Refugee Board has granted Mohammed refugee status on the
basis that the 24-year-old bisexual professional soccer player from Ghana would
face persecution if returned to his home country.

"I feel so happy. I feel now that this country is my home now," he said
Thursday, sitting at the kitchen table in his home. With a bit of effort, he
opened a binder and produced the written decision from the Immigration and
Refugee Board.

"I want to do anything possible to contribute to this country because this
country has done a lot to me that I didn't expect. Ever since I came here, I've
seen a lot of good people who give me courage and also support me."

Mohammed fled Ghana to the United States in 2015. Like many asylum seekers from
Africa, he first flew to Ecuador - where no visas are required - then made his
way by bus through Central America and then to the U.S., where he spent several
months in a detention centre.

His sought asylum on the basis that as a bisexual man, he would face serious
physical harm if he had to return to Ghana. The United Nations office of the
high commissioner on human rights, among other groups, has criticized Ghana's
government for criminalizing homosexuality and allowing gays and lesbians to be
subject to discrimination and harassment.

Mohammed said his asylum claim in the U.S. was rejected because he was unable to
gather supporting evidence from his home country while locked up in the
detention centre. Phone calls overseas from the detention centre are expensive
and applicants can burn through the money they have in a short call, he said.

"They didn't give you a chance to let them know that you are in a difficult
position," he said.

"You can't get enough evidence to show them ... what you are facing."

Released from custody pending deportation, Mohammed made it to North Dakota,
took a cab to an area near the border at Emerson, Man. and, along with a fellow
asylum seeker he met, walked seven hours in the dark as wind chill dipped to -30
C.

It was Dec. 24. The two men passed Emerson without realizing it and were
eventually found by a trucker near Letellier, Man. - 14 kilometres to the north
- nearly frozen and disoriented.

The men spent weeks in hospital. Mohammed's fingers and thumbs were removed and
his hands now resemble stumps. The man he crossed the border with is still
waiting to learn his fate, he said.

The Immigration and Refugee Board ruling said Mohammed would face a "serious
possibility of persecution" if he was returned to Ghana.

"The evidence demonstrates that sexual minorities face discrimination,
hostility, violence, stigmatization, prosecution and imprisonment," it says.

His lawyer, Bashir Khan, said Mohammed has shown a lot of determination -
mentally and physically - to adapt to life without his fingers and thumbs.

"Mentally, he's very strong," Khan said.

"Physically, it's of course very difficult to readjust and cope ... so I think
he has a lot of rehabilitation (ahead)."

Mohammed said he's adjusting to every day life - he likes buttoned shirts, for
example, but has to wear T-shirts and sweaters that don't have buttons. The
doors in the home where he is staying have adapters on them so they can be
opened easily.

He has a goal in mind as his recovery continues - a return to soccer.

"My dream is to start coaching, or to start playing. That's my dream now."

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 The Chronicle Journal
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                     The Times & Transcript (New Brunswick)

                              May 19, 2017 Friday

Refugee claimant who walked into Manitoba granted refugee status

SECTION: Pg. B6

LENGTH: 583 words


WINNIPEG ? Five months after nearly freezing to death on a treacherous walk
across the Canada-U.S. border, and still learning to get along without the 10
fingers and thumbs he lost to frostbite, Seidu Mohammed is happy.

He gets to stay in Canada.

The Immigration and Refugee Board has granted Mohammed refugee status on the
basis that the 24-year-old bisexual professional soccer player from Ghana would
face persecution if returned to his home country.

"I feel so happy. I feel now that this country is my home now," he said
Thursday, sitting at the kitchen table in his home. With a bit of effort, he
opened a binder and produced the written decision from the Immigration and
Refugee Board.

"I want to do anything possible to contribute to this country because this
country has done a lot to me that I didn't expect. Ever since I came here, I've
seen a lot of good people who give me courage and also support me."

Mohammed fled Ghana to the United States in 2015. Like many asylum seekers from
Africa, he first flew to Ecuador - where no visas are required - then made his
way by bus through Central America and then to the U.S., where he spent several
months in a detention centre.

His sought asylum on the basis that as a bisexual man, he would face serious
physical harm if he had to return to Ghana. The United Nations office of the
high commissioner on human rights, among other groups, has criticized Ghana's
government for criminalizing homosexuality and allowing gays and lesbians to be
subject to discrimination and harassment.

Mohammed said his asylum claim in the U.S. was rejected because he was unable to
gather supporting evidence from his home country while locked up in the
detention centre. Phone calls overseas from the detention centre are expensive
and applicants can burn through the money they have in a short call, he said.

"They didn't give you a chance to let them know that you are in a difficult
position," he said.

"You can't get enough evidence to show them ... what you are facing."

Released from custody pending deportation, Mohammed made it to North Dakota,
took a cab to an area near the border at Emerson, Man. and, along with a fellow
asylum seeker he met, walked seven hours in the dark as wind chill dipped to -30
C.

It was Dec. 24. The two men passed Emerson without realizing it and were
eventually found by a trucker near Letellier, Man. - 14 kilometres to the north
- nearly frozen and disoriented.

The men spent weeks in hospital. Mohammed's fingers and thumbs were removed and
his hands now resemble stumps. The man he crossed the border with is still
waiting to learn his fate, he said.

The Immigration and Refugee Board ruling said Mohammed would face a "serious
possibility of persecution" if he was returned to Ghana.

"The evidence demonstrates that sexual minorities face discrimination,
hostility, violence, stigmatization, prosecution and imprisonment," it says.

His lawyer, Bashir Khan, said Mohammed has shown a lot of determination -
mentally and physically - to adapt to life without his fingers and thumbs.

"Mentally, he's very strong," Khan said.

"Physically, it's of course very difficult to readjust and cope ... so I think
he has a lot of rehabilitation (ahead)."

Mohammed said he's adjusting to every day life - he likes buttoned shirts, for
example, but has to wear T-shirts and sweaters that don't have buttons. The
doors in the home where he is staying have adapters on them so they can be
opened easily. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2017 Times &; Transcript (Moncton)

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2017 The Times & Transcript.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 18, 2017 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

300,000 Child Refugees and Migrants Traveled Alone in '15 and '16, U.N. Says

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE.

Follow Rick Gladstone on Twitter @rickgladstone .

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 400 words


UNITED NATIONS -- The number of children traveling by themselves among
documented refugees and migrants has nearly quintupled to the highest on record,
and many of them are at risk from smugglers, sex traffickers and other
predators, the United Nations said in a report published on Wednesday.

The report said the findings amounted to an alarming international lapse in
providing basic safety and security for the world's most vulnerable people.

''One child moving alone is one too many, and yet today, there are a staggering
number of children doing just that,'' said Justin Forsyth, the deputy executive
director of Unicef. ''We as adults are failing to protect them.''

At least 300,000 unaccompanied and separated children were recorded in 80
countries in 2015 and 2016 combined, compared with 66,000 in 2010 and 2011, the
report said.

The 300,000 figure included 170,000 children who had applied for asylum in
Europe and 100,000 who had been detained at the border between Mexico and the
United States.

In a telephone interview, Mr. Forsyth said the report documented not only a
rapid rise in the number of unaccompanied children but also ''a lot more abuse''
by traffickers and members of organized crime who exploit them.

He also said the numbers in the report understated the problem because they
reflected only children found among registered populations of refugees and
migrants.

''This is the tip of the iceberg,'' he said. ''Many children who never register
fall into the hands of smugglers. The real number is much bigger. We lack an
enormous amount of data.''

Mr. Forsyth said the release of the report was timed to come ahead of the Group
of 7 summit meeting on May 26 and 27 in Taormina, Sicily, where the refugee and
migrant crisis will be an important topic.

Italy has been the principal entry point for refugees and migrants making the
treacherous Mediterranean crossing from Africa, and the United Nations report
said roughly 90 percent of children undertaking that voyage were traveling alone
-- mostly from Egypt, Eritrea, Gambia, Guinea and Nigeria.

The report urged the Group of 7 participants, which will include President
Trump, to strengthen protections for child refugees, including by ending their
detention at border crossings, finding ways to keep families together and
combating the ''discrimination, xenophobia and stigma'' that often victimizes
uprooted children.




URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/17/world/americas/united-nations-children-
refugees-migrants-trafficking.html

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Zealand Herald

                              May 16, 2017 Tuesday

Angela McCarthy: History proves "refugee crisis" is largely a myth

SECTION: NEWS; General

LENGTH: 735 words


bull Professor Angela McCarthy of the University of Otago"s Department of
History and Art History is director of the new Centre for Global Migrations

Global migration is becoming a deeply contentious, even toxic, issue, especially
when it comes to the vexed question of refugees. It is being held responsible
for Brexit, the coming to power of United States President Donald Trump and a
rise in hate crimes.

In light of statistics being bandied about, one could be forgiven for believing
human mobility is unprecedented. In 2015, for instance, there were 244 million
migrants, compared with 93m in 1960. But such statistics overlook the parallel
increase in the world"s population, which has risen from three billion to almost
7.3b during the same period.

Just 3.3 per cent of the world"s population today, as during the past 60 years
or so, live outside their country of birth. The proportion of migrants worldwide
is therefore remarkably consistent, even if absolute numbers have increased. It
is still the case that most people remain in the land of their birth.

What else does history reveal about today"s migration flows?

Much is made of the numbers of migrants in the US. Certainly the US has more
migrants than ever, but its foreign-born population today is 13.5 per cent,
lower than its all-time high of 14.8 per cent in 1890.

These percentages pale in comparison to the foreign-born in Canada (about 21 per
cent), Australia (about 27 per cent) and New Zealand (about 25 per cent).

History also shows that areas of traditional outward migration such as Europe "
from which about 60m people emigrated in the 19th century - now attract more
immigrants. Even so, this overlooks the fact that most mobility takes place
within Africa, the Middle East and Asia.

Anxieties today are also connected to assumptions about the type of migrant
relocating. Media reports suggest there is a "refugee crisis", with the UN
Refugee Agency estimating about 65.3m people worldwide have been forcibly
displaced, of which refugees number about 15m.

Yet global population displacement during and after World War II was much
larger, comprising about 165m throughout Europe, South Asia and the Far East.

And although the media presents images of refugee "swarms" invading Europe, most
displaced peoples are internally displaced within the Middle East, North Africa
and elsewhere across the African continent.

What is clear is that today"s migrants are more diverse than at any stage in the
past and include a greater number of females.

But statistics tell only part of the story. Reactions to today"s migrant flows
also have an eerie - and troubling - resonance with previous mobility. Donald
Trump"s efforts to implement legislation to restrict migration to the US from
certain Middle Eastern countries recall early laws which sought to exclude
groups such as the Chinese.

In New Zealand, immigration legislation was also implemented, not just to keep
out certain so-called ethnic "undesirables" but also those perceived as mentally
and physically defective.

The routes that migrants take to new lands also have echoes with the past,
particularly the hazardous sea voyages today from Africa to Europe.

During 2016, at least 5000 migrants died at sea. In the first three months of
2017, more than 500 met a similar fate.

During the mid-19th century, many thousands of Irish Famine migrants lost their
lives on the "coffin ships" bound for North America. More than 17,000 documented
migrants died in 1847 alone.

Even if migrants manage to reach new lands, they continue to be perceived, as in
earlier times, as taking jobs from locals, putting pressure on infrastructure,
pushing up house prices, bludging off the welfare system and committing crimes.
While more research is required, worldwide findings contradict many of these
assertions.

Migrants still also encounter moral panic about their cultures and beliefs, as
they have done in the past. Anti-Islam rhetoric, for instance, finds parallels
with the enmity that Irish Catholics encountered in previous times. These
examples highlight the need to study global migrations with an eye to history
while remaining alert to contemporary contexts.

The University of Otago"s new Centre for Global Migrations seeks to do just
that. It will interrogate past and present assumptions about migration to
question the myths and develop more public awareness of the realities of global
population mobility.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2017 The New Zealand Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                  MetroNews.ca

                              May 15, 2017 Monday

Winnipeg immigration lawyer calls for overhaul of two-tiered refugee process

BYLINE: Braeden Jones - Metro

SECTION: METRO NEWS | NEWS | WINNIPEG; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 622  words


A Winnipeg immigration lawyer is calling on the federal government to rethink
its two-tier refugee claims process, as new statistics show Manitoba sees the
second-highest number of illegal border-hoppers.

"I know there were a number of campaign promises about an overhaul... but until
the government puts together a more clear plan, I won't take too many things
literally," said Alastair Clarke, who will speak on the subject of asylum
claimants to his colleagues of the bar at Canada's Immigration Law Conference
next month (CILC).

On Monday, Clarke said he helped someone from Mauritania successfully claim
refugee status, partly because the west Africa country is not on Canada's
Designated Country of Origin (DCO) list.

That list is meant to streamline the process to prevent backlog in the
immigration system-which critics fear increased illegal crossings will lead
to-by putting claimants from certain countries (DCO) through the system without
a hearing.

But it's not cut and dry, as Clarke explained the hearing Monday involved
evidence from both his client and the tribunal, witnesses, and issues identified
in the hearing were critical to what he felt was a "fulsome" and fair process.

"The DCO system... splits refugee claimants into two tiers," he said. "If the
claimant is from a DCO, they do not have the same rights to have their claim
heard as individuals from other countries; their opportunity for presenting oral
evidence to a tribunal is limited, the procedures for those claimants are
restricted."

The Canadian Press reported Monday that some refugee advocates also feel the
two-tier approach introduces unworkable timelines for hearing cases and their
appeals.

The federal government's own internal reviews apparently show the system hasn't
worked, but efforts to do away with the DCO component has been delayed - first
by the election of U.S. President Donald Trump, then by a Liberal cabinet
shuffle that included the immigration portfolio, and most recently by a sharp
increase in illegal border crossings putting a spotlight on the issue.

A spokesperson for Immigration Minister Ahmed Hussen said the department
continues to review the policy.

In the meantime, Clarke and other lawyers are trying to manage cases and avoid
backlogging the system, undeterred by changes that may or may not come soon.

Clarke said he feels Hussen has been managing the portfolio in a way that is
"basically complying with the status quo."

At the CILC, Clarke said he'll touch on the "flux" immigration in Canada, with
"each new minister putting their own print on the file, changing definitions and
regulations."

But Clarke believes the federal government's most pressing matter isn't the DCO
issue, but rather the Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement, which requires
asylum seekers to claim refugee status in the first country where they land.
That agreement will be central to his CILC address, during which he'll lobby
other immigration lawyers to join in his call to suspend the agreement.

"With the numbers that have been coming through Manitoba in particular with
irregular crossings... the situation in the United States has been affecting
Canada," he said.

So far in 2017, there have been 477 irregular crossing interceptions in
Manitoba, second most to Quebec, which has seen 1,993, but far more than the
third-highest, B.C., with 233.

"The key point is that increasingly, refugee claimants don't consider the United
States to be a safe country where they want to claim refugee status," Clarke
said. "I don't think the Safe Third Country Agreement needs to be abolished,
because the situation in the United States is temporary, but it needs to be
suspended and reinvestigated."

With files from the Canadian Press

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Free Daily News Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                               May 1, 2017 Monday

Refugee aid groups struggle as arrival numbers fluctuate;
Uncertain funding poses challenge to resettlement efforts.

BYLINE: By Encarnacion Pyle

SECTION: ; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 855 words


Pacis Umutesi (left), 32, and family arrived in Columbus last month from central
Africa, where a civil war erupted in their homeland, the Democratic Republic of
the Congo.

COLUMBUS - Despite the political and legal wrangling over President Donald
Trump's latest travel ban, the number of refugees being resettled in Columbus
and other U.S. cities has increased from 400 people a week to about 900.

That is still considerably fewer than the number of refugees originally set to
arrive in the United States each week in this federal fiscal year under former
President Barack Obama's plan. In October, for example, 9,945 refugees arrived,
or about 2,300 a week.

But the recent increase after this year's slowdown is enough to please the
charitable organizations responsible for helping these refugees start new lives
in America.

As of Thursday, 42,409 refugees had arrived in the United States - including
2,149 in Ohio - since the federal fiscal year began Oct. 1, according to data
from the Worldwide Refugee Admissions Processing System.

Although the monthly numbers dropped off from February to March after Trump's
first executive order, issued on Jan. 27, they are on the rise again in April
despite Trump's second order, which was halted on March 15 by an injunction by a
federal judge in Hawaii. Ohio's refugee-admissions figure in February, for
example, was 79; it was 191 in April as of Thursday, with three days left in the
month.

"No one is saying we should take them all in," Angie Plummer, executive director
of Community Refugee and Immigration Services (CRIS), said of the unprecedented
65.3 million people worldwide who have been displaced from their homes. "But we
can do better than we're doing."

Her group resettled 40 refugees in February, 11 in March and 34 in April. And it
has helped a total of 596 people in this federal fiscal year.

Trump's January order denied entry to all refugees for up to 120 days and all
travelers from seven Muslim-majority countries - Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia,
Sudan, Syria and Yemen - for 90 days, saying the measures were needed to keep
out Islamic State and al-Qaida fighters migrating from Middle East hot spots.

Federal courts shot down parts of that initial executive order, but their
rulings did not affect parts affecting refugees, leaving the nine groups that
are designated by the State Department to resettle refugees bracing for funding
reductions and scrambling to raise money. Trump's second order, issued March 6,
continued to impose a 90-day ban on travelers, but it removed Iraq from the list
of countries.

The national resettlement groups and their local affiliates say that although
they are grateful for the bump in recent refugee arrivals, Trump's action is
causing considerable challenges because they have laid off hundreds of
employees. For example, World Relief is closing five of its offices, including
one in Columbus that is to shut down in mid-July.

That's because Trump's second executive order, like the first, reduces the
number of refugees that will be admitted into the country in this federal fiscal
year, from a planned 110,000 to 50,000. April's increase in new admissions will
mean that the country reaches the 50,000 quota sooner, with some people
estimating the cap will be hit by mid-June.

Simply put, fewer refugees means less money for the agencies that resettle them.
The State Department pays each refugee agency $950 per person to cover
administrative costs to provide services for 90 days; an additional $1,125 goes
directly to each refugee to cover expenses such as food, housing and pocket
money.

Plummer said resettlement services make up about a third of her agency's nearly
$4 million budget. To cut costs, she said, she had to eliminate 10 positions,
including a Congolese resettlement case manager, an Arabic-speaking healthcare
worker and an Arabic-speaking resettlement worker, making it difficult to
communicate with new arrivals from those parts of the world. "It makes a real
mess of things," Plummer said.

Until recently, her organization, which is affiliated with Church World Service
and Episcopal Migration Ministries, was operating under a $300,000 deficit, she
said. But budget cuts and donations have helped fill the gap.

Nadia Kasvin, director and co-founder of US Together, which is affiliated with
the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, said it's hard to provide the same kind of
services her clients depend on after cutting her staff from 13 to

six. "Nobody is doing just one job anymore," she said.

The worst part is not knowing what will happen next month, let alone next year,
if resettlement activity doesn't return to normal, Kasvin said.

Columbus' third resettlement agency, World Relief Columbus, stopped accepting
new refugees for resettlement last month because of its impending closure on
July 15. Resettlement agencies usually work with refugees for at least 90 days
after their arrival, helping them with clothing, food, housing, employment
services, follow-up medical care and other services to get them on their feet.

"I'm down to two part-time staff and myself," said Kay Lipovsky, the group's
office manager. "We had eight."

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2017 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              143 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                             April 21, 2017 Friday

Ignoring refugee crisis at one's own peril

LENGTH: 1175 words

DATELINE: India


India, April 21 -- The number of lives affected on account of displacement as a
result of violence and extreme events, and now increasingly climate change,
would perhaps equal those who suffer large-scale war impacts

World Refugee Day will be observed on June 20 this year, and it would take place
against the backdrop of political concerns and developments triggered by the
large-scale refugee crises in several parts of the world. By then the
presidential election in France would be over, but whichever way the election
result goes, the shadow of the refugee crisis and its emotional and political
impacts will not recede easily. This growing problem has already manifested its
political implications in various countries, particularly in Europe and North
America.

Last year, the UN reported on the World Refugee Day that the number of refugees
in the world had reached the highest level ever recorded. It was estimated that
the number of people displaced by conflict, which included refugees, asylum
seekers or those displaced internally, was at an estimated number of 65.3
million by the end of 2015. According to the UN Refugee Agency, this number
amounted to one in every 113 people on the planet, and if this huge number of
human beings constituted a nation, it would be the 21st largest nation in the
world.

In its Annual Report released on June 20, 2016, the UN stated that it was for
the first time that the number in a year had crossed 60 million. The staggering
magnitude of this problem can be understood further from the fact that 24 people
were displaced from their homes every minute during 2015 - which amounted to
34,000 people per day.

The then UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, rightly described it as "not just a
crisis of numbers" but "a crisis of solidarity". It was also stated that more
than half of the world's refugees came from Syria, Afghanistan and Somalia. With
the dropping of the largest non-nuclear bomb (sadly labelled as MOAB, the mother
of all bombs) by the United States and the possibility of further escalation in
the US's involvement in Afghanistan, the numbers of those displaced from that
country could go up significantly. There is, of course, deep concern all across
Europe and consequent political tension on the issue of refugees. But, as the UN
has stated, 86 per cent of the refugees under its mandate were in low and middle
income countries. The old Sanskrit term, 'Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam; (the universe
is one family) is appropriate in this context, because the current situation
highlights the importance of the universal nature of the refugee problem. There
is no part of the world which can remain immune to this crisis in some form or
the other. There is every reason to focus on the root causes which result in
migration and to address them effectively. It is also important to see that
refugees are not marginalised and left without productive occupations and
provided merely food and shelter and activities confined to camps. It is
essential to provide children with education and communities of refugees with
proper healthcare and opportunities to work.

Given the size of the challenge, the global community needs to come up with
actions, infrastructure and support services to deal with this problem, which
will not go away in the foreseeable future, and has every prospect of becoming
larger and much worse over time.

One continent which is particularly vulnerable is Africa. A research-based
publication found that at least 13 million people lived in a state of ongoing
displacement caused by conflict, violence and other disasters across the
continent in 2015. It also stated that in the future, climate change may become
the lead driver of even greater displacement. In the Africa Report on Internal
Displacement, research found that disasters triggered by rapid onset of natural
hazards forced 1.1 million people from their homes across 33 African countries
in 2015. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) in its Fifth
Assessment Report (AR5) had clearly highlighted and projected an increase in
displacement of people as a result of the impacts of climate change.

These impacts would include extreme events such as heat waves, extreme
precipitation events and extreme impacts associated with sea level rise. There
would also be an increase in prolonged droughts and increased frequency and
intensity of floods. Flooding in the case of Africa was the primary trigger of
immediate displacement, forcing 14 million people out of their homes in the
six-year period leading up to 2015. Early in 2015, 56,000 people were forced
from their homes in Ethiopia because of severe flooding. Recently, when the
Oroville dam in California was under the risk of bursting, almost 200,000 people
were warned to leave their homes. Fortunately, this crisis was avoided because
the dangerous level of water in the dam subsided almost when it was at the
brink. Such a massive exercise would hardly have been possible in most poor
countries. And in many poor countries droughts have a major effect on
displacement as well on account of serious problems related to agricultural
activities, pastoral livelihoods, and food security.

While we may feel satisfied with not having had to face of a world war on the
scale of the first and second world wars in the 20th century, the number of
lives affected on account of displacement, often as a result of violence and
extreme events, would perhaps equal those who suffer the devastation of
large-scale war. It is well known that the Pentagon, in several exercises has
found climate change as a major security threat. If impacts of climate change
are going to substantially increase the number of people displaced, as projected
by the IPCC, we would clearly lead to ongoing and perennial crises, which would
in no way be less than the scourge of a world war, and which would affect the
lives of a growing number of people in various parts of the globe.

It is hoped that the Paris agreement on climate change will finally receive the
attention it deserves not only from Governments, but also businesses and civil
society, so that the level of ambition for tackling climate change is enhanced
across this planet, and thus the risks to countries and communities from the
impacts of climate change effectively contained. And, the time has come for the
youth of the world to take the lead in this regard, first because their
attitudes and consumption habits are still not rigidly frozen; and second, it is
their future which is at stake. If this planet is to give them a life of
opportunity and reduced risk from the impacts of climate change, then they must
be at the vanguard of a global movement towards a secure and sustainable future
for planet earth and all living species.

(The writer is former chairman, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change,
2002-2015)

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from Pioneer. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                             March 13, 2017 Monday

Young refugee loves life in U.S., but wonders about fate of sister left behind;

A harrowing escape from traffickers and help from Catholic Community Services
brought her  to Salt Lake City.

BYLINE: By Christopher Smart The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: UTAH NEWS; Politics

LENGTH: 962 words


Desperate to leave Eritrea, Africa, then 16-year-old Rita Okbalidet paid
smugglers to take her to Sudan, where they sold her to human traffickers, who
blindfolded her and stole her away to the Sinai desert in Egypt and demanded
ransom from her mother.

She recalled those harrowing days last week in the comfortable home of Pam
Silberman and Bryan Gibson in Salt Lake City. Although she doesn't like to dwell
on it, Rita remembered languishing in the hot and horrible desert camp for four
months, where people sometimes died when ransom wasn't forthcoming.

Traffickers eventually dropped her off blindfolded in Cairo near a church, where
she found help and friendship.

Rita arrived in Salt Lake City on Sept. 9, 2014, three weeks before her 18th
birthday. Now 20, she smiles when considering her new life. She has mastered
English and just graduated from Horizonte Instruction and Training Center. Rita
has enrolled in a certified nursing-assistant program at Salt Lake Community
College. Her dream is to become a nurse.

Beyond that, she works 25 to 30 hours a week at Cafe Rio.

Rita has come a long way from those traumatic and desperate times during her
exodus, said Silberman, her foster mother. She is now gregarious and determined
to make her life successful.

"I have freedom. I have education. I have work," Rita said. "But half of my
brain is with my family."

Rita's 15-year-old sister, Miriam, is in Khartoum, Sudan. Like Rita, she had
paid smugglers to get her out of Eritrea, which is just north of Ethiopia on the
horn of eastern Africa. And like her sister, she was sold to traffickers.

This time, it was Rita who paid the $5,000 ransom to free her.

"Traffickers prey on young people who have no future and want a better life,"
Silberman said.

Rita also sends money to her mother and two younger siblings, who remain in
Eritrea. When she becomes a nurse, she will be able to support her mother, Rita
said, eyes welling with emotion.

Miriam is now on the list of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
The process to immigrate normally would take 18 to 24 months.

But President Donald Trump's renewed travel ban likely will be an obstacle in
Miriam's effort to reunite with Rita. Not only is Miriam a refugee, but she is
in Sudan, one of six countries banned under the president's executive order.

It is impossible to know Miriam's fate at this point, Silberman said. "Even
though she is from Eritrea, she is now in Sudan -- we don't know what that
means."

Rita said Trump and his views on immigration frighten her. "It makes me so sad."

"I was always praying for Hillary Clinton," she said with a look of resignation.

In Eritrea, Rita lived in a small village with no electricity or running water.
But that's not why she left. After the 11th grade, young men and women are
conscripted into the Eritrean army, where they may spend the entirety of their
working lives. Many young people want to leave Eritrea because there is no
future there.

After eighth grade, Rita's mother kept her from returning to school, so she
wouldn't be on the government's radar and could help raise her three younger
siblings. Her father had left the family years earlier.

"I chose to leave my country," Rita said, "because I didn't have freedom."

If she were returned to Eritrea, she could be imprisoned or killed.

Rita was brought to the U.S. with the help of Catholic Community Services
Unaccompanied Refugee Minor Program. But she didn't choose America.

Silberman explained that refugees seldom get to select a host country. People
Rita met along the way are now scattered across Europe and in Canada. She keeps
track of them on Facebook.

That is among the reasons why Trump's temporary refugee ban is ill advised,
Silberman said.

Most refugees know little or nothing about the United States, she added. "It
makes no sense to say, we want only people who love America."

"Refugees would really like to be in their own country," Silberman explained.
"They just want to be safe and free."

Now that she is here, however, Rita wants to be an American. She loves
practically everything about this country.

Recently, Rita was among a contingent of people who met with the staff of Utah
Rep. Chris Stewart in Salt Lake City. She was nervous about the visit but said
she wanted them to know what a refugee looks like.

"It's easy to think of refugees as people to be afraid of," Silberman said. "But
when you see Rita, you say, 'aren't these the kind of people we want here?' "

Rita's face lights up when she thinks of running water and electricity. "There
is water everywhere here," she said, recalling her previous life where it had to
be carried from a well a mile from her house.

She loves to take showers. But her foster mother has to remind her to turn the
lights off when she leaves a room.

And Rita now has the luxury to think about her future. That is something people
in Eritrea don't normally do -- they must focus on getting through the day,
which includes obtaining basic things like food and water.

"You must understand, where I come from we don't think about the future," Rita
said. "I had never thought about my future before I came here."

Rita's life has changed, but so has that of her foster family, including
15-year-old foster sister Willa Gibson.

Silberman said that Rita makes Willa much more appreciative of what she has, and
gives the family a better understanding of people's struggles outside the United
States.

"We should embrace the global world, rather than be afraid of it," Silberman
said. "You don't have to leave the U.S. to get a better understanding of the
world -- just meet a refugee."

Anyone interested in becoming a foster parent for the Catholic Community
Services Unaccompanied Refugee Minor Program can visit the website ccsutah.org
or call 801-428-1283

csmart@sltrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 10, 2017 Friday

Washington: U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin Joins Effort to Block President Trump's
Re-Issued Travel Ban

LENGTH: 330  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: Office of the Senator Tammy Baldwin, U.S Government has issued the
following news release:



  After President Donald Trump re-issued his harmful restriction on refugees and
immigrants from six Muslim-majority nations in Africa and the Middle East, U.S.
Senator Tammy Baldwin joined a group of 15 Senators, led by Senator Chris Murphy
(D-CT), in introducing legislation to reverse the executive order and block its
implementation. Specifically, the bill would withhold funding to enforce the
executive order. The bill also declares the executive order illegal based on the
1965 Immigration and Nationality Act, which banned discrimination against
immigrants on the basis of national origin.





 "America has a long history of welcoming refugees and immigrants, which has
made our country stronger and speaks to the foundation of who we are as a
people. It's also important to note that the refugee screening process is
extremely rigorous and has worked," said Senator Baldwin. "I understand people's
concerns about the security of our immigration, refugee and foreign traveler
systems. That's why I've helped author legislation to strengthen those systems
and improve our national security. Unfortunately, President Trump's blanket ban
does the opposite. Even under this revised travel ban, I believe President
Trump's actions will make ISIS stronger, weaken America's counterterrorism
efforts and cost lives while also turning our back on our American values and
the rest of the world. America is better than this. We must pass this
legislation and block this executive order."



 In addition to Baldwin, original cosponsors of Murphy's bill include U.S.
Senators Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Patty Murray (D-WA), Tom Carper (D-DE), Maria
Cantwell (D-WA), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Jeff Merkley
(D-OR), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Chris Coons (D-DE), Richard Blumenthal
(D-CT), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Ed Markey (D-MA), Cory Booker (D-NJ) and Chris Van
Hollen (D-MD).

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Miner & News (Kenora)

                             March 7, 2017 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

More success in Canada; Success rates: Why some refugee claimants may have
better odds in Canada

BYLINE: Steve Lambert, The Canadian Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 604  words

DATELINE: WINNIPEG


Bundled against bone-chilling cold, asylum-seekers hoping to gain refugee status
in Canada have been trudging through ditches and fields along the border with
the United States.

Many have already had refugee or asylum claims turned down in the U.S. and feel
they may have more success in Canada. That assumption, say some immigration
lawyers, is correct.

"I think that there is a lack of access to justice (for claimants in the United
States)," said Bashir Khan, an immigration lawyer in Winnipeg.

"In most of Canada, you do get ... a legal-aid assigned lawyer. You're not put
in immigration detention, so you are able to make long-distance calls to gather
evidence that your lawyer may tell you is needed."

Alastair Clarke, another immigration lawyer in the city, said he has represented
people who have been rejected in the U.S. but are accepted in Canada.

"It happens regularly," he said.

"In the United States, there's a much higher rate of detention ... and when the
individual is detained, it's much more difficult for them to access counsel.
They have limited rights to legal counsel for legal advice, and the counsel who
do represent them are often lawyers who don't specialize in (immigration)."

Statistics provided by the Immigration and Refugee Board show refugee claims
from people fleeing some countries are approved more often than not. The
statistics include all claims, not just those from people entering via the U.S.

The numbers are only for people who make their refugee claim at official border
crossings or within Canada after getting across the border - not people who
apply from abroad. And they only cover claims that have already been screened
for eligibility by the Canada Border Services Agency or Immigration, Refugees
and Citizenship Canada.

In the first nine months of 2016, 54 per cent of claims from people who cited
persecution in Ghana were approved. Two-thirds of Somalia-related claims were
OK'd and the success rate for people fleeing Djibouti was more than 90 per cent.

Some claimants arrive in Canada after making a trip across three continents
along what has become a modern underground railroad.

Mohammed, a refugee claimant from Ghana who did not want his last name used,
walked across the border near Emerson-Franklin in Manitoba last fall after
flying from Africa to Brazil and on to Ecuador. He then spent three months
making his way north on buses, a boat and on foot, he said, until he entered the
United States near San Diego. He planned on making a new home in the U.S.

At the California border, he was put in a detention centre for 10 months and his
claim was rejected, he said. He could not get a lawyer and was unprepared for
the hearing, he added.

"You don't have any access to anything ... you cannot make a call to get
whatever you have to to support your case.

"You're going to sit there. You, alone, meet a judge and a government lawyer
who's a prosecutor."

In Canada, claimants are generally released pending their hearings and are
supported by non-profit groups. Most provinces offer legal-aid for refugee
claims.

Under U.S. law, asylumseekers who have their claims rejected must be released
from detention within six months. After that, they are subject to strict
reporting conditions, knowing that one day they will be deported.

"They are eventually told, 'Your deportation is going to happen pretty soon, so
make sure you're ready for it,' " Khan said.

"When they sort of get that hint or a tip-off from immigration officials
themselves, that's when they try to figure out how they can enter Canada and
whether they could ... get a more fair process than the one they've gone
through."

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: John Woods, The Canadian Press; Mohammed, from Ghana and who did not
want to be identified, is photographed in an apartment he shares with five other
men from Africa in Winnipeg.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Daily Miner & News (Kenora)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                     The Times & Transcript (New Brunswick)

                             March 7, 2017 Tuesday

Why some refugee claimants may have better odds than others to stay in Canada

SECTION: Pg. B3

LENGTH: 616 words


WINNIPEG ? Bundled against bone-chilling cold, asylum-seekers hoping to gain
refugee status in Canada have been trudging through ditches and fields along the
border with the United States.

Many have already had refugee or asylum claims turned down in the U.S. and feel
they may have more success in Canada. That assumption, say some immigration
lawyers, is correct.

"I think that there is a lack of access to justice (for claimants in the United
States)," said Bashir Khan, an immigration lawyer in Winnipeg.

"In most of Canada, you do get ... a legal-aid assigned lawyer. You're not put
in immigration detention, so you are able to make long-distance calls to gather
evidence that your lawyer may tell you is needed."

Alastair Clarke, another immigration lawyer in the city, said he has represented
people who have been rejected in the United States but are accepted in Canada.

"It happens regularly," he said.

"In the United States, there's a much higher rate of detention ... and when the
individual is detained, it's much more difficult for them to access counsel.
They have limited rights to legal counsel for legal advice, and the counsel who
do represent them are often lawyers who don't specialize in (immigration)."

Statistics provided by the Immigration and Refugee Board show refugee claims
from people fleeing some countries are approved more often than not. The
statistics include all claims, not just those from people entering via the U.S.

The numbers are only for people who make their refugee claim at official border
crossings or within Canada after getting across the border - not people who
apply from abroad. And they only cover claims that have already been screened
for eligibility by the Canada Border Services Agency or Immigration, Refugees
and Citizenship Canada.

In the first nine months of 2016, 54 per cent of claims from people who cited
persecution in Ghana were approved. Two-thirds of Somalia-related claims were
OKed and the success rate for people fleeing Djibouti was more than 90 per cent.

Some claimants arrive in Canada after making a trip across three continents
along what has become a modern underground railroad.

Mohammed, a refugee claimant from Ghana who did not want his last name used,
walked across the border near Emerson-Franklin in Manitoba last fall after
flying from Africa to Brazil and on to Ecuador. He then spent three months
making his way north on buses, a boat and on foot, he said, until he entered the
United States near San Diego. He planned on making a new home in the U.S.

At the California border, he was put in a detention centre for 10 months and his
claim was rejected, he said. He could not get a lawyer and was unprepared for
the hearing, he added.

"You don't have any access to anything ... you cannot make a call to get
whatever you have to to support your case.

"You're going to sit there. You, alone, meet a judge and a government lawyer
who's a prosecutor."

In Canada, claimants are generally released pending their hearings and are
supported by non-profit groups. Most provinces offer legal-aid for refugee
claims.

Under U.S. law, asylum-seekers who have their claims rejected must be released
from detention within six months. After that, they are subject to strict
reporting conditions, knowing that one day they will be deported.

"They are eventually told, 'Your deportation is going to happen pretty soon, so
make sure you're ready for it'," Khan said.

"When they sort of get that hint or a tip-off from immigration officials
themselves, that's when they try to figure out how they can enter Canada and
whether they could ... get a more fair process than the one they've gone
through." !@COPYRIGHT=© 2017 Times &; Transcript (Moncton)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2017 The Times & Transcript.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                Ingersoll Times

                            March 1, 2017 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Unclear path forward for refugees from U.S

SECTION: VIEW POINTS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 428  words


Those considering coming to Canada as refugee claimants across our unmarked
border with the United States must think carefully about the pitfalls they will
face. If they still decide to come, and if their numbers swell, Canadians must
think carefully about how we treat them.

Under the Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement, the people scurrying across
fields are supposed to have made their refugee claims in the United States. For
whatever reason --likely fear of deportation under President Donald Trump's
initiatives --they've decided to look north.

If they have managed to set foot in Canada --illegally, for if they tried to
cross at a formal border point they would automatically be turned back --they
can start the refugee claim process.

But there is no guarantee Canada will accept their claims. Normally, many of the
refugees this country accepts have been vetted before ever touching our soil.
Not so here. If one of these refugee claims fails, the person could find
themselves on an airplane back to their country of origin.

This includes not only those who have fled war-torn parts of the world, but also
potential economic migrants. They're not going back to the U.S. for another shot
at a refugee claim. They're going back to the country they initially fled.

There can be delays and appeals, of course, but Canada's refugee determination
system is considered more efficient than the American one, so failed claimants
may be shipped out faster. They're taking a gamble coming here.

The number of people who have crossed over on foot illegally near Emerson, Man.,
or Hemmingford, Que. is unclear because government records don't differentiate
between border-hoppers and those who cross at proper ports of entry.

The RCMP couldn't provide specific numbers either, but "we can confirm that
there has been an increase in illegal migration in Quebec, Manitoba and British
Columbia, with the largest increase being seen in Quebec," said an email from
spokesperson Julie Gagnon.

If the numbers increase as the weather gets warmer, the situation could suddenly
become dramatic. Manitoba Premier Brian Pallister is talking with other premiers
this week about co-ordinating a response to the would-be refugees, most of whom,
so far, are originally from African countries, or hotspots such as Yemen. The
federal government, meanwhile, doesn't plan to change its practices.

So far, options such as private sponsorship, available to help Syrians coming to
Canada, aren't applicable in this instance. But legal help or assisting with the
necessities of life are things we can do.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2017 Ingersoll Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                Norwich Gazette

                            March 1, 2017 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Unclear path forward for refugees from U.S

SECTION: VIEW POINTS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 428  words


Those considering coming to Canada as refugee claimants across our unmarked
border with the United States must think carefully about the pitfalls they will
face. If they still decide to come, and if their numbers swell, Canadians must
think carefully about how we treat them.

Under the Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement, the people scurrying across
fields are supposed to have made their refugee claims in the United States. For
whatever reason --likely fear of deportation under President Donald Trump's
initiatives --they've decided to look north.

If they have managed to set foot in Canada --illegally, for if they tried to
cross at a formal border point they would automatically be turned back --they
can start the refugee claim process.

But there is no guarantee Canada will accept their claims. Normally, many of the
refugees this country accepts have been vetted before ever touching our soil.
Not so here. If one of these refugee claims fails, the person could find
themselves on an airplane back to their country of origin.

This includes not only those who have fled wartorn parts of the world, but also
potential economic migrants. They're not going back to the U.S. for another shot
at a refugee claim. They're going back to the country they initially fled.

There can be delays and appeals, of course, but Canada's refugee determination
system is considered more efficient than the American one, so failed claimants
may be shipped out faster. They're taking a gamble coming here.

The number of people who have crossed over on foot illegally near Emerson, Man.,
or Hemmingford, Que. is unclear because government records don't differentiate
between border-hoppers and those who cross at proper ports of entry.

The RCMP couldn't provide specific numbers either, but "we can confirm that
there has been an increase in illegal migration in Quebec, Manitoba and British
Columbia, with the largest increase being seen in Quebec," said an email from
spokesperson Julie Gagnon.

If the numbers increase as the weather gets warmer, the situation could suddenly
become dramatic. Manitoba Premier Brian Pallister is talking with other premiers
this week about co-ordinating a response to the would-be refugees, most of whom,
so far, are originally from African countries, or hotspots such as Yemen. The
federal government, meanwhile, doesn't plan to change its practices.

So far, options such as private sponsorship, available to help Syrians coming to
Canada, aren't applicable in this instance. But legal help or assisting with the
necessities of life are things we can do.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2017 Norwich Gazette
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                            Northumberland Today.com

                            February 27, 2017 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Unclear path forward for refugees

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 425  words


Those considering coming to Canada as refugee claimants across our unmarked
border with the United States must think carefully about the pitfalls they will
face. If they still decide to come, and if their numbers swell, Canadians must
think carefully about how we treat them.

Under the Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement, the people scurrying across
fields are supposed to have made their refugee claims in the United States. For
whatever reason - likely fear of deportation under President Donald Trump's
initiatives - they've decided to look north. If they have managed to set foot in
Canada - illegally, for if they tried to cross at a formal border point they
would automatically be turned back - they can start the refugee claim process.

But there is no guarantee Canada will accept their claims. Normally, many of the
refugees this country accepts have been vetted before ever touching our soil.
Not so here. If one of these refugee claims fails, the person could find
themselves on an airplane back to their country of origin. This includes not
only those who have fled war-torn parts of the world, but also potential
economic migrants. They're not going back to the U.S. for another shot at a
refugee claim. They're going back to the country they initially fled.

There can be delays and appeals, of course, but Canada's refugee determination
system is considered more efficient than the American one, so failed claimants
may be shipped out faster. They're taking a gamble coming here.

The number of people who have crossed over on foot illegally near Emerson, Man.,
or Hemmingford, Que. is unclear because government records don't differentiate
between border-hoppers and those who cross at proper ports of entry. The RCMP
couldn't provide specific numbers either, but "we can confirm that there has
been an increase in illegal migration in Quebec, Manitoba and British Columbia,
with the largest increase being seen in Quebec," said an email from spokesperson
Julie Gagnon.

If the numbers increase as the weather gets warmer, the situation could suddenly
become dramatic. Manitoba Premier Brian Pallister is talking with other premiers
this week about co-ordinating a response to the would-be refugees, most of whom,
so far, are originally from African countries, or hotspots such as Yemen. The
federal government, meanwhile, doesn't plan to change its practices.

So far, options such as private sponsorship, available to help Syrians coming to
Canada, aren't applicable. But legal help or assisting with necessities of life
are things we can do.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2017 Northumberland Today.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               Chatham Daily News

                            February 24, 2017 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Unclear path forward for refugees from U.S

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 439  words


Those considering coming to Canada as refugee claimants across our unmarked
border with the United States must think carefully about the pitfalls they will
face. If they still decide to come, and if their numbers swell, Canadians must
think carefully about how we treat them.

Under the Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement, the people scurrying across
fields are supposed to have made their refugee claims in the United States. For
whatever reason - likely fear of deportation under President Donald Trump's
initiatives - they've decided to look north. If they have managed to set foot in
Canada - illegally, for if they tried to cross at a formal border point they
would automatically be turned back - they can start the refugee claim process.

But there is no guarantee Canada will accept their claims. Normally, many of the
refugees this country accepts have been vetted before ever touching our soil.
Not so here. If one of these refugee claims fails, the person could find
themselves on an airplane back to their country of origin. This includes not
only those who have fled wartorn parts of the world, but also potential economic
migrants. They're not going back to the U.S. for another shot at a refugee
claim. They're going back to the country they initially fled.

There can be delays and appeals, of course, but Canada's refugee determination
system is considered more efficient than the American one, so failed claimants
may be shipped out faster. They're taking a gamble coming here.

The number of people who have crossed over on foot illegally near Emerson, Man.,
or Hemmingford, Que. is unclear because government records don't differentiate
between border-hoppers and those who cross at proper ports of entry. The RCMP
couldn't provide specific numbers either, but "we can confirm that there has
been an increase in illegal migration in Quebec, Manitoba and British Columbia,
with the largest increase being seen in Quebec," said an email from spokesperson
Julie Gagnon.

If the numbers increase as the weather gets warmer, the situation could suddenly
become dramatic. Manitoba Premier Brian Pallister is talking with other premiers
this week about co-ordinating a response to the would-be refugees, most of whom,
so far, are originally from African countries, or hotspots such as Yemen. The
federal government, meanwhile, doesn't plan to change its practices.

So far, options such as private sponsorship, available to help Syrians coming to
Canada, aren't applicable in this instance. But legal help or assisting with the
necessities of life are things we can do. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2017 Osprey Media Group
Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Chatham Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          Cornwall Standard Freeholder

                            February 24, 2017 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Unclear path forward for refugees from U.S

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 440  words


Those considering coming to Canada as refugee claimants across our unmarked
border with the United States must think carefully about the pitfalls they will
face. If they still decide to come, and if their numbers swell, Canadians must
think carefully about how we treat them.

Under the Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement, the people scurrying across
fields are supposed to have made their refugee claims in the United States. For
whatever reason - likely fear of deportation under President Donald Trump's
initiatives - they've decided to look north. If they have managed to set foot in
Canada - illegally, for if they tried to cross at a formal border point they
would automatically be turned back - they can start the refugee claim process.
But there is no guarantee Canada will accept their claims. Normally, many of the
refugees this country accepts have been vetted before ever touching our soil.
Not so here. If one of these refugee claims fails, the person could find
themselves on an airplane back to their country of origin. This includes not
only those who have fled war-torn parts of the world, but also potential
economic migrants. They're not going back to the U.S. for another shot at a
refugee claim. They're going back to the country they initially fled.

There can be delays and appeals, of course, but Canada's refugee determination
system is considered more efficient than the American one, so failed claimants
may be shipped out faster. They're taking a gamble coming here.

The number of people who have crossed over on foot illegally near Emerson, Man.,
or Hemmingford, Que. is unclear because government records don't differentiate
between border-hoppers and those who cross at proper ports of entry. The RCMP
couldn't provide specific numbers either, but "we can confirm that there has
been an increase in illegal migration in Quebec, Manitoba and British Columbia,
with the largest increase being seen in Quebec," said an email from spokesperson
Julie Gagnon.

If the numbers increase as the weather gets warmer, the situation could suddenly
become dramatic. Manitoba Premier Brian Pallister is talking with other premiers
this week about co-ordinating a response to the would-be refugees, most of whom,
so far, are originally from African countries, or hotspots such as Yemen. The
federal government, meanwhile, doesn't plan to change its practices.

So far, options such as private sponsorship, available to help Syrians coming to
Canada, aren't applicable in this instance. But legal help or assisting with the
necessities of life are things we can do. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2017 Osprey Media Group
Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 Cornwall Standard Freeholder
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                     Daily Herald-Tribune (Grande Prairie)

                            February 24, 2017 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Unclear path forward for refugees from U.S

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 443  words


Those considering coming to Canada as refugee claimants across our unmarked
border with the United States must think carefully about the pitfalls they will
face. If they still decide to come, and if their numbers swell, Canadians must
think carefully about how we treat them.

Under the Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement, the people scurrying across
fields are supposed to have made their refugee claims in the United States. For
whatever reason - likely fear of deportation under President Donald Trump's
initiatives - they've decided to look north. If they have managed to set foot in
Canada - illegally, for if they tried to cross at a formal border point they
would automatically be turned back - they can start the refugee claim process.

But there is no guarantee Canada will accept their claims. Normally, many of the
refugees this country accepts have been vetted before ever touching our soil.
Not so here. If one of these refugee claims fails, the person could find
themselves on an airplane back to their country of origin. This includes not
only those who have fled war-torn parts of the world, but also potential
economic migrants. They're not going back to the U.S. for another shot at a
refugee claim. They're going back to the country they initially fled.

There can be delays and appeals, of course, but Canada's refugee determination
system is considered more efficient than the American one, so failed claimants
may be shipped out faster. They're taking a gamble coming here.

The number of people who have crossed over on foot illegally near Emerson, Man.,
or Hemmingford, Que. is unclear because government records don't differentiate
between border-hoppers and those who cross at proper ports of entry. The RCMP
couldn't provide specific numbers either, but "we can confirm that there has
been an increase in illegal migration in Quebec, Manitoba and British Columbia,
with the largest increase being seen in Quebec," said an email from spokesperson
Julie Gagnon.

If the numbers increase as the weather gets warmer, the situation could suddenly
become dramatic. Manitoba Premier Brian Pallister is talking with other premiers
this week about co-ordinating a response to the would-be refugees, most of whom,
so far, are originally from African countries, or hotspots such as Yemen. The
federal government, meanwhile, doesn't plan to change its practices.

So far, options such as private sponsorship, available to help Syrians coming to
Canada, aren't applicable in this instance. But legal help or assisting with the
necessities of life are things we can do. - Postmedia Network !@COPYRIGHT=© 2017
Sun Media Corporation. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2017 Daily Herald-Tribune (Grande Prairie)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily Observer (Pembroke)

                            February 24, 2017 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Unclear path forward for refugees from U.S

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 443  words


Those considering coming to Canada as refugee claimants across our unmarked
border with the United States must think carefully about the pitfalls they will
face. If they still decide to come, and if their numbers swell, Canadians must
think carefully about how we treat them.

Under the Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement, the people scurrying across
fields are supposed to have made their refugee claims in the United States. For
whatever reason - likely fear of deportation under President Donald Trump's
initiatives - they've decided to look north. If they have managed to set foot in
Canada - illegally, for if they tried to cross at a formal border point they
would automatically be turned back - they can start the refugee claim process.
But there is no guarantee Canada will accept their claims. Normally, many of the
refugees this country accepts have been vetted before ever touching our soil.
Not so here. If one of these refugee claims fails, the person could find
themselves on an airplane back to their country of origin. This includes not
only those who have fled war-torn parts of the world, but also potential
economic migrants. They're not going back to the U.S. for another shot at a
refugee claim. They're going back to the country they initially fled.

There can be delays and appeals, of course, but Canada's refugee determination
system is considered more efficient than the American one, so failed claimants
may be shipped out faster. They're taking a gamble coming here.

The number of people who have crossed over on foot illegally near Emerson, Man.,
or Hemmingford, Que. is unclear because government records don't differentiate
between border-hoppers and those who cross at proper ports of entry. The RCMP
couldn't provide specific numbers either, but "we can confirm that there has
been an increase in illegal migration in Quebec, Manitoba and British Columbia,
with the largest increase being seen in Quebec," said an email from spokesperson
Julie Gagnon.

If the numbers increase as the weather gets warmer, the situation could suddenly
become dramatic. Manitoba Premier Brian Pallister is talking with other premiers
this week about co-ordinating a response to the would-be refugees, most of whom,
so far, are originally from African countries, or hotspots such as Yemen. The
federal government, meanwhile, doesn't plan to change its practices.

So far, options such as private sponsorship, available to help Syrians coming to
Canada, aren't applicable in this instance. But legal help or assisting with the
necessities of life are things we can do. Postmedia Network !@COPYRIGHT=© 2017
Osprey Media Group Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 The Daily Observer (Pembroke)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                              Niagara Falls Review

                            February 24, 2017 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Unclear path forward for refugees from U.S

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 443  words


Those considering coming to Canada as refugee claimants across our unmarked
border with the United States must think carefully about the pitfalls they will
face. If they still decide to come, and if their numbers swell, Canadians must
think carefully about how we treat them.

Under the Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement, the people scurrying across
fields are supposed to have made their refugee claims in the United States. For
whatever reason - likely fear of deportation under President Donald Trump's
initiatives - they've decided to look north. If they have managed to set foot in
Canada - illegally, for if they tried to cross at a formal border point they
would automatically be turned back - they can start the refugee claim process.

But there is no guarantee Canada will accept their claims. Normally, many of the
refugees this country accepts have been vetted before ever touching our soil.
Not so here. If one of these refugee claims fails, the person could find
themselves on an airplane back to their country of origin. This includes not
only those who have fled war-torn parts of the world, but also potential
economic migrants. They're not going back to the U.S. for another shot at a
refugee claim. They're going back to the country they initially fled.

There can be delays and appeals, of course, but Canada's refugee determination
system is considered more efficient than the American one, so failed claimants
may be shipped out faster. They're taking a gamble coming here.

The number of people who have crossed over on foot illegally near Emerson, Man.,
or Hemmingford, Que. is unclear because government records don't differentiate
between border-hoppers and those who cross at proper ports of entry. The RCMP
couldn't provide specific numbers either, but "we can confirm that there has
been an increase in illegal migration in Quebec, Manitoba and British Columbia,
with the largest increase being seen in Quebec," said an email from spokesperson
Julie Gagnon.

If the numbers increase as the weather gets warmer, the situation could suddenly
become dramatic. Manitoba Premier Brian Pallister is talking with other premiers
this week about co-ordinating a response to the would-be refugees, most of whom,
so far, are originally from African countries, or hotspots such as Yemen. The
federal government, meanwhile, doesn't plan to change its practices.

So far, options such as private sponsorship, available to help Syrians coming to
Canada, aren't applicable in this instance. But legal help or assisting with the
necessities of life are things we can do. Postmedia Network !@COPYRIGHT=© 2017
Osprey Media Group Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 Niagara Falls Review
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                North Bay Nugget

                            February 24, 2017 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Unclear path forward for refugees from U.S

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 440  words


Those considering coming to Canada as refugee claimants across our unmarked
border with the United States must think carefully about the pitfalls they will
face. If they still decide to come, and if their numbers swell, Canadians must
think carefully about how we treat them.

Under the Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement, the people scurrying across
fields are supposed to have made their refugee claims in the United States. For
whatever reason - likely fear of deportation under President Donald Trump's
initiatives - they've decided to look north. If they have managed to set foot in
Canada - illegally, for if they tried to cross at a formal border point they
would automatically be turned back - they can start the refugee claim process.
But there is no guarantee Canada will accept their claims. Normally, many of the
refugees this country accepts have been vetted before ever touching our soil.
Not so here. If one of these refugee claims fails, the person could find
themselves on an airplane back to their country of origin. This includes not
only those who have fled war-torn parts of the world, but also potential
economic migrants. They're not going back to the U.S. for another shot at a
refugee claim. They're going back to the country they initially fled.

There can be delays and appeals, of course, but Canada's refugee determination
system is considered more efficient than the American one, so failed claimants
may be shipped out faster. They're taking a gamble coming here.

The number of people who have crossed over on foot illegally near Emerson, Man.,
or Hemmingford, Que. is unclear because government records don't differentiate
between border-hoppers and those who cross at proper ports of entry. The RCMP
couldn't provide specific numbers either, but "we can confirm that there has
been an increase in illegal migration in Quebec, Manitoba and British Columbia,
with the largest increase being seen in Quebec," said an email from spokesperson
Julie Gagnon.

If the numbers increase as the weather gets warmer, the situation could suddenly
become dramatic. Manitoba Premier Brian Pallister is talking with other premiers
this week about co-ordinating a response to the would-be refugees, most of whom,
so far, are originally from African countries, or hotspots such as Yemen. The
federal government, meanwhile, doesn't plan to change its practices.

So far, options such as private sponsorship, available to help Syrians coming to
Canada, aren't applicable in this instance. But legal help or assisting with the
necessities of life are things we can do. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2017 Osprey Media Group
Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 North Bay Nugget
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                              Owen Sound Sun Times

                            February 24, 2017 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Unclear path forward for refugees from U.S

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 440  words


Those considering coming to Canada as refugee claimants across our unmarked
border with the United States must think carefully about the pitfalls they will
face. If they still decide to come, and if their numbers swell, Canadians must
think carefully about how we treat them.

Under the Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement, the people scurrying across
fields are supposed to have made their refugee claims in the United States. For
whatever reason - likely fear of deportation under President Donald Trump's
initiatives - they've decided to look north. If they have managed to set foot in
Canada - illegally, for if they tried to cross at a formal border point they
would automatically be turned back - they can start the refugee claim process.
But there is no guarantee Canada will accept their claims. Normally, many of the
refugees this country accepts have been vetted before ever touching our soil.
Not so here. If one of these refugee claims fails, the person could find
themselves on an airplane back to their country of origin. This includes not
only those who have fled war-torn parts of the world, but also potential
economic migrants. They're not going back to the U.S. for another shot at a
refugee claim. They're going back to the country they initially fled.

There can be delays and appeals, of course, but Canada's refugee determination
system is considered more efficient than the American one, so failed claimants
may be shipped out faster. They're taking a gamble coming here.

The number of people who have crossed over on foot illegally near Emerson, Man.,
or Hemmingford, Que. is unclear because government records don't differentiate
between border-hoppers and those who cross at proper ports of entry. The RCMP
couldn't provide specific numbers either, but "we can confirm that there has
been an increase in illegal migration in Quebec, Manitoba and British Columbia,
with the largest increase being seen in Quebec," said an email from spokesperson
Julie Gagnon.

If the numbers increase as the weather gets warmer, the situation could suddenly
become dramatic. Manitoba Premier Brian Pallister is talking with other premiers
this week about co-ordinating a response to the would-be refugees, most of whom,
so far, are originally from African countries, or hotspots such as Yemen. The
federal government, meanwhile, doesn't plan to change its practices.

So far, options such as private sponsorship, available to help Syrians coming to
Canada, aren't applicable in this instance. But legal help or assisting with the
necessities of life are things we can do. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2017 Osprey Media Group
Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 Owen Sound Sun Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                Welland Tribune

                            February 24, 2017 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Unclear path forward for refugees from U.S

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 440  words


Those considering coming to Canada as refugee claimants across our unmarked
border with the United States must think carefully about the pitfalls they will
face. If they still decide to come, and if their numbers swell, Canadians must
think carefully about how we treat them.

Under the Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement, the people scurrying across
fields are supposed to have made their refugee claims in the United States. For
whatever reason - likely fear of deportation under President Donald Trump's
initiatives - they've decided to look north. If they have managed to set foot in
Canada - illegally, for if they tried to cross at a formal border point they
would automatically be turned back - they can start the refugee claim process.

But there is no guarantee Canada will accept their claims. Normally, many of the
refugees this country accepts have been vetted before ever touching our soil.
Not so here. If one of these refugee claims fails, the person could find
themselves on an airplane back to their country of origin. This includes not
only those who have fled war-torn parts of the world, but also potential
economic migrants. They're not going back to the U.S. for another shot at a
refugee claim. They're going back to the country they initially fled.

There can be delays and appeals, of course, but Canada's refugee determination
system is considered more efficient than the American one, so failed claimants
may be shipped out faster. They're taking a gamble coming here.

The number of people who have crossed over on foot illegally near Emerson, Man.,
or Hemmingford, Que. is unclear because government records don't differentiate
between border-hoppers and those who cross at proper ports of entry. The RCMP
couldn't provide specific numbers either, but "we can confirm that there has
been an increase in illegal migration in Quebec, Manitoba and British Columbia,
with the largest increase being seen in Quebec," said an email from spokesperson
Julie Gagnon.

If the numbers increase as the weather gets warmer, the situation could suddenly
become dramatic. Manitoba Premier Brian Pallister is talking with other premiers
this week about co-ordinating a response to the would-be refugees, most of whom,
so far, are originally from African countries, or hotspots such as Yemen. The
federal government, meanwhile, doesn't plan to change its practices.

So far, options such as private sponsorship, available to help Syrians coming to
Canada, aren't applicable in this instance. But legal help or assisting with the
necessities of life are things we can do. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2017 Osprey Media Group
Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2017 Welland Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                  Calgary Sun

                           February 23, 2017 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Manitoba premier seeks refugee help

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 300  words

DATELINE: WINNIPEG


The federal and provincial governments need to co-ordinate their approach to the
growing number of asylum-seekers crossing the border because all signs from the
U.S. suggest the issue isn't going away, says Manitoba's premier.

"With the United States' approach, and the United States' new administration's
approach on issues related to refugees - and to immigration generally - there
are conditions that would lead, I think, most people to conclude this will be an
ongoing challenge," Brian Pallister said Tuesday. "We have a letter going out
with specific issues that we would like to see the federal government
cooperatively address, and I have a call lined up later this week with other
premiers to discuss the issue and co-ordinate our approaches in respect of where
we go from here."

Pallister's office later clarified that his calls with other premiers will be
one-byone and not a conference call.

The number of people fleeing the U.S., largely from African countries
originally, has jumped in recent weeks, following planned crackdowns on
immigration in the U.S.

The refugees have been crossing fields and ditches near border communities, such
as Emerson-Franklin, Man. and Hemmingford, Que.

The tactic is a way to get around the Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement,
which requires anyone who has already applied for refugee status in the U.S. to
be turned away at an official border crossing in Canada.

If a person crosses somewhere else and gets apprehended on Canadian soil, they
can apply as a refugee and the case is heard by Canadian authorities.

Some immigration lawyers and politicians want Canada to change the agreement so
that people can turn themselves in at official border crossings and still get
their refugee claim heard. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2017 Sun Media Corporation. All rights
reserved.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Canadian Press Files; A man from Ghana stands in a Winnipeg apartment
he shares with five other men from Africa. Brian Pallister, inset, wants fed
help in dealing with the flood of asylum seekers.;;  (See hardcopy for photo);

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2017 Calgary Sun
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                  Edmonton Sun

                           February 23, 2017 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Manitoba premier seeks refugee help

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 300  words

DATELINE: WINNIPEG


The federal and provincial governments need to co-ordinate their approach to the
growing number of asylum-seekers crossing the border because all signs from the
U.S. suggest the issue isn't going away, says Manitoba's premier.

"With the United States' approach, and the United States' new administration's
approach on issues related to refugees - and to immigration generally - there
are conditions that would lead, I think, most people to conclude this will be an
ongoing challenge," Brian Pallister said Tuesday. "We have a letter going out
with specific issues that we would like to see the federal government
cooperatively address, and I have a call lined up later this week with other
premiers to discuss the issue and co-ordinate our approaches in respect of where
we go from here."

Pallister's office later clarified that his calls with other premiers will be
one-byone and not a conference call.

The number of people fleeing the U.S., largely from African countries
originally, has jumped in recent weeks, following planned crackdowns on
immigration in the U.S.

The refugees have been crossing fields and ditches near border communities, such
as Emerson-Franklin, Man. and Hemmingford, Que.

The tactic is a way to get around the Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement,
which requires anyone who has already applied for refugee status in the U.S. to
be turned away at an official border crossing in Canada.

If a person crosses somewhere else and gets apprehended on Canadian soil, they
can apply as a refugee and the case is heard by Canadian authorities.

Some immigration lawyers and politicians want Canada to change the agreement so
that people can turn themselves in at official border crossings and still get
their refugee claim heard. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2017 Sun Media Corporation. All rights
reserved.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: / (See hardcopy for photo); Canadian Press Files;  A man from Ghana
stands in a Winnipeg apartment he shares with five other men from Africa. Brian
Pallister, inset, wants fed help in dealing with the flood of asylum seekers.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2017 Edmonton Sun
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                   Ottawa Sun

                           February 23, 2017 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Manitoba premier seeks refugee help

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 300  words

DATELINE: WINNIPEG


The federal and provincial governments need to co-ordinate their approach to the
growing number of asylum-seekers crossing the border because all signs from the
U.S. suggest the issue isn't going away, says Manitoba's premier.

"With the United States' approach, and the United States' new administration's
approach on issues related to refugees - and to immigration generally - there
are conditions that would lead, I think, most people to conclude this will be an
ongoing challenge," Brian Pallister said Tuesday. "We have a letter going out
with specific issues that we would like to see the federal government
cooperatively address, and I have a call lined up later this week with other
premiers to discuss the issue and co-ordinate our approaches in respect of where
we go from here."

Pallister's office later clarified that his calls with other premiers will be
one-byone and not a conference call.

The number of people fleeing the U.S., largely from African countries
originally, has jumped in recent weeks, following planned crackdowns on
immigration in the U.S.

The refugees have been crossing fields and ditches near border communities, such
as Emerson-Franklin, Man. and Hemmingford, Que.

The tactic is a way to get around the Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement,
which requires anyone who has already applied for refugee status in the U.S. to
be turned away at an official border crossing in Canada.

If a person crosses somewhere else and gets apprehended on Canadian soil, they
can apply as a refugee and the case is heard by Canadian authorities.

Some immigration lawyers and politicians want Canada to change the agreement so
that people can turn themselves in at official border crossings and still get
their refugee claim heard. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2017 Sun Media Corporation. All rights
reserved.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: / (See hardcopy for photo); Canadian Press Files;  A man from Ghana
stands in a Winnipeg apartment he shares with five other men from Africa. Brian
Pallister, inset, wants fed help in dealing with the flood of asylum seekers.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2017 Ottawa Sun
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                  Toronto Sun

                           February 23, 2017 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Manitoba premier seeks refugee help

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 300  words

DATELINE: WINNIPEG


The federal and provincial governments need to co-ordinate their approach to the
growing number of asylum-seekers crossing the border because all signs from the
U.S. suggest the issue isn't going away, says Manitoba's premier.

"With the United States' approach, and the United States' new administration's
approach on issues related to refugees - and to immigration generally - there
are conditions that would lead, I think, most people to conclude this will be an
ongoing challenge," Brian Pallister said Tuesday. "We have a letter going out
with specific issues that we would like to see the federal government
cooperatively address, and I have a call lined up later this week with other
premiers to discuss the issue and co-ordinate our approaches in respect of where
we go from here."

Pallister's office later clarified that his calls with other premiers will be
one-byone and not a conference call.

The number of people fleeing the U.S., largely from African countries
originally, has jumped in recent weeks, following planned crackdowns on
immigration in the U.S.

The refugees have been crossing fields and ditches near border communities, such
as Emerson-Franklin, Man. and Hemmingford, Que.

The tactic is a way to get around the Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement,
which requires anyone who has already applied for refugee status in the U.S. to
be turned away at an official border crossing in Canada.

If a person crosses somewhere else and gets apprehended on Canadian soil, they
can apply as a refugee and the case is heard by Canadian authorities.

Some immigration lawyers and politicians want Canada to change the agreement so
that people can turn themselves in at official border crossings and still get
their refugee claim heard. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2017 Sun Media Corporation. All rights
reserved.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: / (See hardcopy for photo); Canadian Press Files;  A man from Ghana
stands in a Winnipeg apartment he shares with five other men from Africa. Brian
Pallister, inset, wants fed help in dealing with the flood of asylum seekers.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2017 Toronto Sun
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The Chronicle Journal

                          February 22, 2017 Wednesday

[Premiers to talk refugees this week HL:Manitoba premier seeks co-ordination
with feds to deal with ]

SECTION: GENERAL NEWS

LENGTH: 519  words


Premiers to talk refugees this week

HL:Manitoba premier seeks co-ordination with feds to deal with refugee surge

By Steve Lambert

THE CANADIAN PRESS

WINNIPEG - The federal and provincial governments need to co-ordinate their
approach to the growing number of asylum-seekers crossing the border because all
signs from the United States suggest the issue is not going away, says
Manitoba's premier.

"With the United States approach, and the United States new administration's
approach on issues related to refugees - and to immigration generally - there
are conditions that would lead, I think, most people to conclude this will be an
ongoing challenge," Brian Pallister said Tuesday.

"We have a letter going out with specific issues that we would like to see the
federal government co-operatively address, and I have a call lined up later this
week with other premiers to discuss the issue and co-ordinate our approaches in
respect of where we go from here."

Pallister's office later clarified that his calls with other premiers will be
one-by-one and not a conference call.

The number of people fleeing the United States, largely from African countries
originally, has jumped in recent weeks, following planned crackdowns on
immigration in the U.S. The refugees have been crossing fields and ditches near
border communities such as Emerson-Franklin, Man. and Hemmingford, Que.

The tactic is a way to get around the Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement,
which requires anyone who has already applied for refugee status in the U.S. to
be turned away at an official border crossing in Canada. If a person crosses
somewhere else and gets apprehended on Canadian soil, they can apply as a
refugee and the case is heard by Canadian authorities.

Some immigration lawyers and politicians want Canada to change the agreement so
that people can turn themselves in at official border crossings and still get
their refugee claim heard.

The reeve of Emerson-Franklin, Greg Janzen, said Tuesday the idea would increase
safety for his community's residents and for the refugees, who have been making
long crossings on foot in the dead of winter.

"I would like to see something changed and get some order to this chaos that's
going on," Janzen said.

"Let them walk up to the port of entry. Will that bring more people? Yes. But at
least it will be in an organized manner."

Pallister was non-committal on the issue. He said there are arguments for and
against changing the Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement.

In Ottawa, federal Immigration Minister Ahmed Hussen said he sees no need to
change the agreement, because the United States was still living up to its
international obligations in dealing with asylum-seekers.

"As far as we're concerned, someone in the United States can still make a
credible asylum claim through their system," Hussen told reporters.

Pallister would not specify what he is seeking from the federal government. He
said he is putting those details in a letter to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.

"I think we have to have the dialogue (first) and we should endeavour to do that
co-operatively with the federal government."

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 The Chronicle Journal
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       The Daily Gleaner (New Brunswick)

                          February 22, 2017 Wednesday

Manitoba premier seeks co-ordination with feds to deal with refugee surge

SECTION: Pg. B4

LENGTH: 446 words


WINNIPEG ? The federal and provincial governments need to co-ordinate their
approach to the growing number of asylum-seekers crossing the border because all
signs from the United States suggest the issue is not going away, says
Manitoba's premier.

"With the United States approach, and the United States new administration's
approach on issues related to refugees - and to immigration generally - there
are conditions that would lead, I think, most people to conclude this will be an
ongoing challenge," Brian Pallister said Tuesday.

"We have a letter going out with specific issues that we would like to see the
federal government co-operatively address, and I have a call lined up later this
week with other premiers to discuss the issue and co-ordinate our approaches in
respect of where we go from here."

Pallister's office later clarified that his calls with other premiers will be
one-by-one and not a conference call.

The number of people fleeing the United States, largely from African countries
originally, has jumped in recent weeks, following planned crackdowns on
immigration in the U.S. The refugees have been crossing fields and ditches near
border communities such as Emerson-Franklin, Man. and Hemmingford, Que.

The tactic is a way to get around the Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement,
which requires anyone who has already applied for refugee status in the U.S. to
be turned away at an official border crossing in Canada. If a person crosses
somewhere else and gets apprehended on Canadian soil, they can apply as a
refugee and the case is heard by Canadian authorities.

Some immigration lawyers and politicians want Canada to change the agreement so
that people can turn themselves in at official border crossings and still get
their refugee claim heard.

The reeve of Emerson-Franklin, Greg Janzen, said Tuesday the idea would increase
safety for his community's residents and for the refugees, who have been making
long crossings on foot in the dead of winter.

"I would like to see something changed and get some order to this chaos that's
going on," Janzen said.

"Let them walk up to the port of entry. Will that bring more people? Yes. But at
least it will be in an organized manner."

Pallister was non-committal on the issue. He said there are arguments for and
against changing the Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement.

Pallister also would not specify what he is seeking from the federal government.
He said he is putting those details in a letter to Prime Minister Justin
Trudeau.

"I think we have to have the dialogue (first) and we should endeavour to do that
co-operatively with the federal government." !@COPYRIGHT=© 2017 The Daily
Gleaner (Fredericton)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 The Daily Gleaner
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                     The Times & Transcript (New Brunswick)

                          February 22, 2017 Wednesday

Manitoba premier seeks co-ordination with feds to deal with refugee surge

SECTION: Pg. B4

LENGTH: 446 words


WINNIPEG ? The federal and provincial governments need to co-ordinate their
approach to the growing number of asylum-seekers crossing the border because all
signs from the United States suggest the issue is not going away, says
Manitoba's premier.

"With the United States approach, and the United States new administration's
approach on issues related to refugees - and to immigration generally - there
are conditions that would lead, I think, most people to conclude this will be an
ongoing challenge," Brian Pallister said Tuesday.

"We have a letter going out with specific issues that we would like to see the
federal government co-operatively address, and I have a call lined up later this
week with other premiers to discuss the issue and co-ordinate our approaches in
respect of where we go from here."

Pallister's office later clarified that his calls with other premiers will be
one-by-one and not a conference call.

The number of people fleeing the United States, largely from African countries
originally, has jumped in recent weeks, following planned crackdowns on
immigration in the U.S. The refugees have been crossing fields and ditches near
border communities such as Emerson-Franklin, Man. and Hemmingford, Que.

The tactic is a way to get around the Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement,
which requires anyone who has already applied for refugee status in the U.S. to
be turned away at an official border crossing in Canada. If a person crosses
somewhere else and gets apprehended on Canadian soil, they can apply as a
refugee and the case is heard by Canadian authorities.

Some immigration lawyers and politicians want Canada to change the agreement so
that people can turn themselves in at official border crossings and still get
their refugee claim heard.

The reeve of Emerson-Franklin, Greg Janzen, said Tuesday the idea would increase
safety for his community's residents and for the refugees, who have been making
long crossings on foot in the dead of winter.

"I would like to see something changed and get some order to this chaos that's
going on," Janzen said.

"Let them walk up to the port of entry. Will that bring more people? Yes. But at
least it will be in an organized manner."

Pallister was non-committal on the issue. He said there are arguments for and
against changing the Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement.

Pallister also would not specify what he is seeking from the federal government.
He said he is putting those details in a letter to Prime Minister Justin
Trudeau.

"I think we have to have the dialogue (first) and we should endeavour to do that
co-operatively with the federal government." !@COPYRIGHT=© 2017 Times &;
Transcript (Moncton)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2017 The Times & Transcript.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             Waterloo Region Record

                          February 22, 2017 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Manitoba calls for refugee support;
Premier seeks co-ordination with Ottawa as province sees surge of asylum seekers
crossing border

BYLINE: Steve Lambert, The Canadian Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 281 words


The federal and provincial governments need to co-ordinate their approach to the
growing number of asylum-seekers crossing the border because all signs from the
United States suggest the issue is not going away, says Manitoba's premier.

"With the United States approach ... there are conditions that would lead, I
think, most people to conclude this will be an ongoing challenge," Brian
Pallister said Tuesday.

"We have a letter going out with specific issues that we would like to see the
federal government co-operatively address."

The number of people fleeing the United States, largely from African countries
originally, has jumped in recent weeks, following planned crackdowns on
immigration in the U.S. The refugees have been crossing fields and ditches near
border communities such as Emerson-Franklin, Man., and Hemmingford, Que.

The tactic is a way to get around the Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement,
which requires anyone who has already applied for refugee status in the U.S. to
be turned away at an official border crossing in Canada. If a person crosses
somewhere else and gets apprehended on Canadian soil, they can apply as a
refugee and the case is heard by Canadian authorities.

Some immigration lawyers and politicians want Canada to change the agreement so
that people can turn themselves in at official border crossings and still get
their refugee claim heard.

Pallister was non-committal on the issue, saying there are arguments for and
against the change.

In Ottawa, federal Immigration Minister Ahmed Hussen said he sees no need to
change the agreement, because the United States was still living up to its
international obligations in dealing with asylum-seekers.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Metroland Media Group Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                  Winnipeg Sun

                          February 22, 2017 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

'This will be an ongoing challenge'; Manitoba premier seeks co-ordination with
feds to deal with refugee surge

BYLINE: Steve Lambert, The Canadian Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 443  words


The federal and provincial governments need to coordinate their approach to the
growing number of asylum-seekers crossing the border because all signs from the
United States suggest the issue is not going away, says Manitoba's premier.

"With the United States approach, and the United States new administration's
approach on issues related to refugees - and to immigration generally - there
are conditions that would lead, I think, most people to conclude this will be an
ongoing challenge," Brian Pallister said Tuesday.

"We have a letter going out with specific issues that we would like to see the
federal government co-operatively address, and I have a call lined up later this
week with other premiers to discuss the issue and co-ordinate our approaches in
respect of where we go from here."

Pallister's office later clarified that his calls with other premiers will be
one-by-one and not a conference call.

The number of people fleeing the United States, largely from African countries
originally, has jumped in recent weeks, following planned crackdowns on
immigration in the U.S. The refugees have been crossing fields and ditches near
border communities such as Emerson-Franklin, Man. and Hemmingford, Que.

The tactic is a way to get around the Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement,
which requires anyone who has already applied for refugee status in the U.S. to
be turned away at an official border crossing in Canada.

If a person crosses somewhere else and gets apprehended on Canadian soil, they
can apply as a refugee and the case is heard by Canadian authorities.

Some immigration lawyers and politicians want Canada to change the agreement so
that people can turn themselves in at official border crossings and still get
their refugee claim heard.

The reeve of Emerson-Franklin, Greg Janzen, said Tuesday the idea would increase
safety for his community's residents and for the refugees, who have been making
long crossings on foot in the dead of winter.

"I would like to see something changed and get some order to this chaos that's
going on," Janzen said.

"Let them walk up to the port of entry. Will that bring more people? Yes. But at
least it will be in an organized manner."

Pallister was non-committal on the issue. He said there are arguments for and
against changing the Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement.

Pallister would not specify what he is seeking from the federal government. He
said he is putting those details in a letter to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.

"I think we have to have the dialogue (first) and we should endeavour to do that
co-operatively with the federal !@COPYRIGHT=© 2017 Sun Media Corporation. All
rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Paul Chiasson, The Canadian Press; A family of asylum claimants crosses
the border into Quebec from the United States on Monday.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2017 Winnipeg Sun
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           Cape Argus (South Africa)

                           February 21, 2017 Tuesday
                                   E1 Edition

Mexican anger at US tax plan;
Trump's rhetoric may result in suspension of border controls

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 402 words


A MEXICAN minister has said his government would stop its US-backed border
controls at the southern border if US President Donald Trump follows through on
his border tax promise.

Trump's plan to impose heavy border taxes on Mexico could see the the suspension
of a security programme with Washington at Mexico's southern border, which stops
immigrants and refugees fleeing conflicts in Central America from coming into
Mexico as they try to seek asylum in the US.

"There is so much at stake for the interest of the US as a country," Mexico's
Economy Minister Ildefonso Guajardo said.

The minister warned that Trump's rhetoric against his country and its people
could see the Mexican government less willing to "keep on co-operating in things
at the heart of (US) national security issues".

"You cannot ask me to (accept poor) conditions in terms of trade and then
request my help to manage migration issues from other nations or the prosecution
of criminal activities and narcotics," he added.

For the past three years, Mexico has virtually locked its southern border as
part of Programa Frontera Sur initiated by President Barack Obama in order to
stop the flow of refugees from countries like El Salvador, Guatemala and
Honduras.

In recent years, Mexico has also become a hotspot for refugees fleeing conflicts
in Africa and the Middle East. Last year, at least 7500 people from Africa came
into Mexico according to government figures.

As part of the security co-operation with Mexico, US agents are stationed in
detention centres across Mexico in order to vet refugees from Muslim-majority
countries who are applying for asylum in the US.

However, it is not clear whether threats to suspend the programme would
materialise in the event of a Trump border tax.

One of the main promises of Trump's presidential campaign was building a wall in
order to stop the flow of what Trump calls criminals, drug dealers and rapists
from entering the US. But, in fact, over the past few years more Mexicans have
been leaving the US than coming in, according to official statements.

Humberto Roque Villanueva, deputy secretary of Population, Migration and
Religious Affairs, told Mexico's La Jornada that while his government has been
accused of doing "the dirty work" of the US, the country would not abandon
border controls at the southern border over Trump's hostile policies for "legal,
human and crime-prevention reasons". - Telesur

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CA


                Copyright 2017 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           Cape Times (South Africa)

                           February 21, 2017 Tuesday
                                   E1 Edition

Mexican anger at â[#x20ac]¨US tax plan;
Threat to stop refugee control

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 511 words


A MEXICAN minister has said his government would stop its US-backed border
controls at the southern border if US President Donald Trump follows through on
his border tax promise.

Trump's plan to impose heavy border taxes on Mexico could see the the suspension
of a security programme with Washington at Mexico's southern border, which stops
immigrants and refugees fleeing conflicts in Central America from coming into
Mexico as they try to seek asylum in the US.

"There is so much at stake for the interest of the US as a country," Mexico's
Economy Minister Ildefonso Guajardo told the Canadian newspaper Globe and Mail
in an interview on Saturday.

Mexico has been accused of doing the US's "dirty work" when it comes to
combatting war and immigration in return for cash.

The minister warned that Trump's rhetoric against his country and its people
could see the Mexican government less willing to "keep on co-operating in things
that are at the heart of (US) national security issues".

"You cannot ask me to (accept poor) conditions in terms of trade and then
request my help to manage migration issues from other nations or the prosecution
of criminal activities and narcotics," he added.

For the past three years Mexico has virtually locked its southern border as part
of Programa Frontera Sur initiated by President Barack Obama in order to stop
the flow of refugees from Central America.

Washington gave Mexico US$86 million (R1.1 billion) in equipment and training in
2014 in order to set up border controls along its 4â[#x20ac]...828km southern
border and crack down on immigrant flows from countries like El Salvador,
Guatemala and Honduras. Mexico detained 330 000 Central Americans in the last
two years.

In recent years Mexico has also become a hotspot for refugees fleeing conflicts
in Africa and the Middle East who are wishing to go to the the US.

Last year, at least 7Â 500 people from Africa came into Mexico according to
government figures.

As part of the security co-operation between the US and Mexico, US agents are
stationed in detention centres across Mexico in order to vet refugees from
Muslim-majority countries who are applying for asylum in the US.

However, it is not clear whether threats to suspend the programme would
materialise in the event of a Trump border tax, which his administration
suggested would pay for his wall with Mexico.

One of the main promises of Trump's presidential campaign was building a wall
along the border with Mexico in order to stop the flow of what Trump calls
criminals, drug dealers and rapists from entering the US.

But, in fact, over the past few years more Mexicans have been leaving the US
than coming in, according to official statements.

Humberto Roque Villanueva, deputy secretary of Population, Migration and
Religious Affairs at the Mexican Secretariat of the Interior, told Mexico's La
Jornada that while his government has been accused of doing "the dirty work" of
the US, the country would not abandon border controls at the southern border
over Trump's hostile policies for "legal, human and crime-prevention reasons".

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


                Copyright 2017 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           The Mercury (South Africa)

                           February 21, 2017 Tuesday
                                   E1 Edition

Mexican anger at â[#x20ac]¨US tax plan;
Threat to stop refugee control

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 511 words


A MEXICAN minister has said his government would stop its US-backed border
controls at the southern border if US President Donald Trump follows through on
his border tax promise.

Trump's plan to impose heavy border taxes on Mexico could see the suspension of
a security programme with Washington at Mexico's southern border, which stops
immigrants and refugees fleeing conflicts in Central America from coming into
Mexico as they try to seek asylum in the US.

"There is so much at stake for the interest of the US as a country," Mexico's
Economy Minister Ildefonso Guajardo told the Canadian newspaper Globe and Mail
in an interview on Saturday.

Mexico has been accused of doing the US's "dirty work" when it comes to
combatting war and immigration in return for cash.

The minister warned that Trump's rhetoric against his country and its people
could see the Mexican government less willing to "keep on co-operating in things
that are at the heart of (US) national security issues".

"You cannot ask me to (accept poor) conditions in terms of trade and then
request my help to manage migration issues from other nations or the prosecution
of criminal activities and narcotics," he added.

For the past three years Mexico has virtually locked its southern border as part
of Programa Frontera Sur initiated by President Barack Obama in order to stop
the flow of refugees from Central America.

Washington gave Mexico US$86 million (R1.1 billion) in equipment and training in
2014 in order to set up border controls along its 4â[#x20ac]...828km southern
border and crack down on immigrant flows from countries like El Salvador,
Guatemala and Honduras. Mexico detained 330 000 Central Americans in the last
two years.

In recent years Mexico has also become a hotspot for refugees fleeing conflicts
in Africa and the Middle East who are wishing to go to the the US. Last year, at
least 7Â 500 people from Africa came into Mexico according to government
figures.

As part of the security co-operation between the US and Mexico, US agents are
stationed in detention centres across Mexico in order to vet refugees from
Muslim-majority countries who are applying for asylum in the US.

However, it is not clear whether threats to suspend the programme would
materialise in the event of a Trump border tax, which his administration
suggested would pay for his wall with Mexico.

One of the main promises of Trump's presidential campaign was building a wall
along the border with Mexico in order to stop the flow of what Trump calls
criminals, drug dealers and rapists from entering the US. But, in fact, over the
past few years more Mexicans have been leaving the US than coming in, according
to official statements.

Humberto Roque Villanueva, deputy secretary of Population, Migration and
Religious Affairs at the Mexican Secretariat of the Interior, told Mexico's La
Jornada that while his government has been accused of doing "the dirty work" of
the US, the country would not abandon border controls at the southern border
over Trump's hostile policies for "legal, human and crime-prevention reasons".

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NM


                Copyright 2017 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                  The Press-Republican (Plattsburgh, New York)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           February 21, 2017 Tuesday

Refugees to Canada skyrocketed since November

BYLINE: Dan Heath, The Press-Republican, Plattsburgh, N.Y.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 863 words


Feb. 21--ST. BERNARD DE LACOLLE, Quebec -- Quebec has seen a large spike in the
number of people crossing the border from the United States to seek refugee
status.

Four of them attempted to do so Monday morning, trying to enter Canada from the
United States where no official crossing exists.

They walked from the Town of Champlain hamlet of Perry's Mills, about 3 miles
west of the Champlain-St. Bernard de-Lacolle port of entry, across to Roxham
Road on the Canadian side.

The two men, a woman and a small child in a stroller were taken into custody as
journalists arrived for a media availability held by officials with the Royal
Canadian Mounted Police, Canada Border Services Agency and U.S. Customs and
Border Protection.

Brian Byrne, detachment commander with the Royal Canadian Mounted Police Border
Law Enforcement, said the illegal entry of what appeared to be a small family is
part of a growing trend.

Those who make the attempt are frequently very tired, he said, and, as was the
case Monday, not dressed for the northern climate.

"We escort them to safe ground," he said.

'PERSECUTED SOMEWHERE'

The trend started in September, when 255 claims were made compared to 112 in
2015, Canada Border Services Officer in Charge of Communications Dominique
Fillion said.

The figures increased from 115 to 289 for October, 93 to 368 in November and 101
to 593 in December, according to statistics provided by Canada Border Services.

The big jump in November coincided with the U.S. election, when Donald Trump won
the presidency. But Canadian officials did not tie the influx of refugees in
with his policies on immigration.

"A person who makes a refugee claim, it is because they are persecuted somewhere
in the world," Fillion said. "Everyone has their own story."

At St. Bernard-de-Lacolle, she said, they are seeing 10 to 20 requests for that
status each day.

That covers both those who try to cross the border illegally and those who
present themselves at a regular port of entry.

"For January 2017, we have 452 refugee claimants," Fillion said.

That compares to 137 in January 2016.

The top three nationalities of those attempting to enter Quebec from the United
States are Burundi, located in East Africa; Eritrea, in the Horn of Africa; and
the North African country of Sudan, she said, while for Canada overall they are
Eritrea, Burundi and Syria.

25 HANDGUNS

Byrne said the RCMP's mandate is national security. Any cross-border offense,
such as entering the country at a spot other than an official port, is in
violation of Canadian law, Byrne said.

The border on Roxham Road is a prime spot to make the attempt, he said, as the
road goes right up to the border on either side.

Byrne said they have seen an increase in the number of people attempting to
cross illegally in the last few months, though he didn't have any statistics on
hand.

He said those caught are taken to a proper port of entry for further
investigation.

If other illegal matters are revealed, they would go to the RCMP station in St.
Jean-sur-Richelieu for further investigation.

One example was an arrest on Dec. 23, when they apprehended a man with 25
handguns, including some that were loaded. That shows the need for vigilance,
Byrne said.

"Everything is taken seriously."

If no legality issues warrant further detention, the people who request refugee
status are turned over to Canada Border Services.

ELIGIBILITY

Due to the rising number of those seeking refugee status, Canada Border Services
has established a temporary office to process their requests at the St.
Bernard-de-Lacolle port of entry on Interstate 87/Autoroute 15.

Once there, applicants are photographed, fingerprinted and interviewed to
determine their identity and eligibility to seek refugee status from the
government.

Canada Border Services has three working days to establish eligibility, which
Fillion said tends to happen well within that time frame in most cases.

There are sofas for applicants to sleep on, and they can buy their own food from
local restaurants that deliver.

If not eligible, those who entered at an official port of entry are sent back to
the United States. Those who attempted to cross illegally are deported to their
home country.

If allowed to seek refugee status, they can move on to stay with friends, family
or at one of Canada's refugee centers, located in larger urban areas such as
Montreal or Toronto.

They then have to attend a hearing with the Canadian Immigration and Refugee
Board. Applicants have to meet conditions, such as change-of-address
notification.

"So yes, we do keep track of them," Fillion said.

DETAINMENT

There are three reasons the CBSA detains applicants: if they can't prove their
identity, if they pose a threat and/or if it is believed they will not show for
their immigration proceedings.

The last time those statistics were compiled, in 2016, that amounted to about 3
percent of those who sought refugee status. Those people are sent to a regional
detention center in Laval for further review.

Email Dan Heath:

dheath@pressrepublican.com

___ (c)2017 the Press-Republican (Plattsburgh, N.Y.) Visit the Press-Republican
(Plattsburgh, N.Y.) at pressrepublican.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170221-ZI-Refugees-to-Canada-skyrocketed-since-November-0221-20170221

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ZI


                      Copyright 2017 The Press-Republican


                              172 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          Pretoria News (South Africa)

                           February 21, 2017 Tuesday
                                   E1 Edition

Mexican anger at â[#x20ac]¨US tax plan;
Threat to stop refugee control

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 512 words


A MEXICAN minister has said his government would stop its US-backed border
controls at the southern border if US President Donald Trump follows through on
his border tax promise.

Trump's plan to impose heavy border taxes on Mexico could see the the suspension
of a security programme with Washington at Mexico's southern border, which stops
immigrants and refugees fleeing conflicts in Central America from coming into
Mexico as they try to seek asylum in the US.

"There is so much at stake for the interest of the US as a country," Mexico's
Economy Minister Ildefonso Guajardo told the Canadian newspaper Globe and Mail
in an interview on Saturday.

Mexico has been accused of doing the US's "dirty work" when it comes to
combatting war and immigration in return for cash.

The minister warned that Trump's rhetoric against his country and its people
could see the Mexican government less willing to "keep on co-operating in things
that are at the heart of (US) national security issues".

"You cannot ask me to (accept poor) conditions in terms of trade and then
request my help to manage migration issues from other nations or the prosecution
of criminal activities and narcotics," he added.

For the past three years Mexico has virtually locked its southern border as part
of Programa Frontera Sur initiated by President Barack Obama in order to stop
the flow of refugees from Central America.

Washington gave Mexico US$86 million (R1.1 billion) in equipment and training in
2014 in order to set up border controls along its 4â[#x20ac]...828km southern
border and crack down on immigrant flows from countries like El Salvador,
Guatemala and Honduras. Mexico detained 330 000 Central Americans in the last
two years.

In recent years Mexico has also become a hotspot for refugees fleeing conflicts
in Africa and the Middle East who are wishing to go to the the US. Last year, at
least 7Â 500 people from Africa came into Mexico according to government
figures.

As part of the security co-operation between the US and Mexico, US agents are
stationed in detention centres across Mexico in order to vet refugees from
Muslim-majority countries who are applying for asylum in the US.

However, it is not clear whether threats to suspend the programme would
materialise in the event of a Trump border tax, which his administration
suggested would pay for his wall with Mexico.

One of the main promises of Trump's presidential campaign was building a wall
along the border with Mexico in order to stop the flow of what Trump calls
criminals, drug dealers and rapists from entering the US. But, in fact, over the
past few years more Mexicans have been leaving the US than coming in, according
to official statements.

Humberto Roque Villanueva, deputy secretary of Population, Migration and
Religious Affairs at the Mexican Secretariat of the Interior, told Mexico's La
Jornada that while his government has been accused of doing "the dirty work" of
the US, the country would not abandon border controls at the southern border
over Trump's hostile policies for "legal, human and crime-prevention reasons".

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PN


                Copyright 2017 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                            The Star (South Africa)

                           February 21, 2017 Tuesday
                                   E1 Edition

Mexican anger at â[#x20ac]¨US tax plan;
Threat to stop refugee control

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 512 words


A MEXICAN minister has said his government would stop its US-backed border
controls at the southern border if US President Donald Trump follows through on
his border tax promise.

Trump's plan to impose heavy border taxes on Mexico could see the the suspension
of a security programme with Washington at Mexico's southern border, which stops
immigrants and refugees fleeing conflicts in Central America from coming into
Mexico as they try to seek asylum in the US.

"There is so much at stake for the interest of the US as a country," Mexico's
Economy Minister Ildefonso Guajardo told the Canadian newspaper Globe and Mail
in an interview on Saturday.

Mexico has been accused of doing the US's "dirty work" when it comes to
combatting war and immigration in return for cash.

The minister warned that Trump's rhetoric against his country and its people
could see the Mexican government less willing to "keep on co-operating in things
that are at the heart of (US) national security issues".

"You cannot ask me to (accept poor) conditions in terms of trade and then
request my help to manage migration issues from other nations or the prosecution
of criminal activities and narcotics," he added.

For the past three years Mexico has virtually locked its southern border as part
of Programa Frontera Sur initiated by President Barack Obama in order to stop
the flow of refugees from Central America.

Washington gave Mexico US$86 million (R1.1 billion) in equipment and training in
2014 in order to set up border controls along its 4â[#x20ac]...828km southern
border and crack down on immigrant flows from countries like El Salvador,
Guatemala and Honduras. Mexico detained 330 000 Central Americans in the last
two years.

In recent years Mexico has also become a hotspot for refugees fleeing conflicts
in Africa and the Middle East who are wishing to go to the the US. Last year, at
least 7Â 500 people from Africa came into Mexico according to government
figures.

As part of the security co-operation between the US and Mexico, US agents are
stationed in detention centres across Mexico in order to vet refugees from
Muslim-majority countries who are applying for asylum in the US.

However, it is not clear whether threats to suspend the programme would
materialise in the event of a Trump border tax, which his administration
suggested would pay for his wall with Mexico.

One of the main promises of Trump's presidential campaign was building a wall
along the border with Mexico in order to stop the flow of what Trump calls
criminals, drug dealers and rapists from entering the US. But, in fact, over the
past few years more Mexicans have been leaving the US than coming in, according
to official statements.

Humberto Roque Villanueva, deputy secretary of Population, Migration and
Religious Affairs at the Mexican Secretariat of the Interior, told Mexico's La
Jornada that while his government has been accused of doing "the dirty work" of
the US, the country would not abandon border controls at the southern border
over Trump's hostile policies for "legal, human and crime-prevention reasons".

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SW


                Copyright 2017 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                    Prince George Citizen (British Columbia)

                          February 15, 2017 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

The long road to Canada; Asylum seekers talk about their journey from Africa to
an icy border crossing into Canada

BYLINE: Steve Lambert, The Canadian Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 767 words


The perilous walk through frozen fields at the border between the United States
and Manitoba was just the latest chapter of a threecontinent, danger-filled
journey for Mohammed and Mamood, two of the growing number of asylum-seekers who
are hoping for a new life in Canada.

They had already walked through South American forests, crammed into over-filled
boats, spent months in detention centres in the United States, and paid high
fees to those who provided transport.

It was to escape what they say is the threat of death back in Ghana.

"We are not here to cause problem or something. No, we want to make here our
home because we have lost our home. We have no place," Mohammed said Tuesday as
he sat in the small two-bedroom apartment that serves as a temporary shelter for
him, Mamood and four other recent arrivals.

One bedroom has two sets of bunk beds with barely enough room to walk in
between.

The two men agreed to talk about their experience but asked that their last
names not be used for fear that their friends and family in Ghana may suffer.
Neither man wanted to provide details on why they fled Ghana, other than what
Mamood called "personal issues with the community."

The Canadian Press talked to their lawyer, Bashir Khan, who confirmed their
applications before the Immigration and Refugee Board of Canada. They'll have to
be specific when they appear before the refugee board in the coming weeks.

Mohammed - a slight, friendly 31-year-old - says he left Ghana in 2014. He flew
to Brazil, then to Ecuador, and started making his way further north through
Colombia and Panama. He took buses or walked, sometimes through the night, he
said.

He recalls going through thick forests and at one point, getting on a crowded
boat for a seven-hour trip further north, hiding under a plastic tarp with
others.

"You have to pay the fisherman, so you pay I think $600 and they smuggle you at
night."

He eventually got to the United States at a border crossing south of San Diego,
he says, and was immediately detained for 10 months. By February 2016, he was
released, and later lived in New York, where he learned his application to stay
in the U.S. had been denied.

In late November, he decided to go to Canada and took a bus to Minneapolis on
the false assumption that the city was close to the Canadian border. It was at
the Minneapolis bus station where he met Mamood, he says.

"We speak the same language, so we talk and he said he is going to Canada... and
I said 'we can just go together."' Mamood, two years younger and somewhat taller
than Mohammed, tells a similar story - a lengthy trek through Central America,
making a refugee claim after getting to the United States, being detained for
several months and eventually fleeing toward the Canadian border when his
refugee application was denied.

Because both men had first applied for refugee status in the U.S. they would be
turned back at an official border crossing under the Canada-U.S. Safe Third
Country Agreement. If they managed to get on Canadian soil and were then
arrested, they could stay while their refugee applications were processed.

At the Minneapolis bus station, the men say, they were shocked to learn they
were at least a six-hour drive from the Canadian border. A cabbie charged them
$600 each to take them to the area just across from Emerson, Man. - a community
that has become a hot spot for illicit border crossings in recent weeks.

They ended up being dropped off far from the border - near a sugar factory
possibly in Drayton, N.D., still 50 kilometres from Canada. They walked for
seven hours, they say, dressed in multiple sweaters and jackets. It was
relatively mild weather for late fall on the Prairies, but they occasionally got
wet and very cold.

"There's some waters that you have to pass through... when you come out, your
leg will be like frozen," Mohammed said.

Eventually, they crossed through a field on the border. It was after midnight
when they reached a hotel in Emerson.

"We pushed the door, it was open. And we just entered and sleep in the corridor
until one and a half hours (later), the guy came and he called police for us,"
Mohammed said.

The men's lawyer says while the number of people crossing the border in recent
weeks has jumped, the issue pre-dates the election of U.S. president Donald
Trump.

The problem, Khan says, is that refugee claimants in the U.S. are often held for
months in detention centres without being able to get legal help or call their
home countries for documentation.

"This is the lack of access to justice that happened, and that was under
(former) president Obama," Khan said.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Canadian Press Photo; Mohammed, from Ghana, looks out the window of an
apartment he shares with five other men from Africa in Winnipeg on Tuesday.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 Prince George Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                           February 14, 2017 Tuesday

Trekking through snow and cold, Muslim refugees take their chances in Canada;
A small but growing number of Muslim refugees are fleeing Trump's America,
braving through snowstorms to cross the border to Canada.

BYLINE: Mengqi Sun Staff

SECTION: USA

LENGTH: 580 words


Disheartened by the Trump administration's attempts to halt the flow of refugees
into the United States, a small but growing number of Muslim asylum seekers are
fleeing President Trump's America, trekking through, through frigid temperatures
and waist-deep snow to cross the border to Canada.

As 1,100 refugees arrived in the United States last week with the lifting of the
Trump administration's travel ban by the federal courts, some 25 refugees
decided to forgo their chances of being granted asylum in the United States and
instead made their way to Emerson, Manitoba, despite fierce snowstorms.

"Sometimes we were crawling," Hussein Ahmed, a Somali refugee told CNN. "It was
terrible.... I thought I would never survive such a field of ice."

According to local officials, the number of refugees crossing into Emerson has
drastically increased from 50 to 60 each year to 40 in the past two weekends.
The numbers for the other areas also grew, as Quebec saw the number of illegal
crossings tripled to 1,280 this current fiscal year while British Columbia had
652 cases last year.

Even before Mr. Trump had taken office, some asylum seekers who had thought they
would find their second chance in the United States began shifting their sights
further north to Canada.

When Ghanaian national Razak Iyal first began walking from North Dakota to
Manitoba in December, he had no idea the potential risks of embarking on such a
journey by foot in winter. He and his travel companion, another Ghanaian refugee
whom he met along the way, both lost their fingers to frostbite along the way.
But they found a community ready to welcome them with open arms, at least
temporarily.

"The president of the Ghana community [in Winnipeg], she has been coming every
day, every day.... She brings us food, everything we need," Mr. Iyal told the
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. "She's been helping us, and most of the
Canadian people, too ... when they see us they have been good to us. Now I think
we are part of the Canadian people."

Though Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has said that Canada would accept
refugees turned away by the United States, there is no guarantee that Iyal will
be allowed to stay in Canada permanently after crossing the border illegally.
His immigration hearing is scheduled for March 27.

As a growing number of people traveled at "one of the coldest seasons," border
patrol officials in North Dakota have contacted consulates from some African
countries, asking them to spread information about the hazards of winter in
Minnesota and North Dakota.

"Family groups with small children that, if someone hadn't gone out and picked
them up, they'd have frozen to death," said Aaron Heitke, border patrol sector
commander at Grand Forks, a popular crossing point for immigrants as it is 80
miles from Emerson of Manitoba, told the Associated Press.

Facing the new humanitarian issue, Rita Chahal, executive director of Manitoba
Interfaith Immigration Council, said it is important to help these immigrants
"at their moment of desperation," by welcoming them and distributing blankets at
the border when the center gets calls about new groups.

"People are running for their lives. They are running for safety, running for
their families," Ms. Chahal told CNN. "When somebody comes into a new country,
they don't know the language, often, they don't know their way around, so it's
really important to help them navigate."

This report includes material from the Associated Press.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2017 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           February 14, 2017 Tuesday
                                Ontario Edition

IMMIGRATION;
Winnipeg steps up with aid for refugees denied U.S. asylum

BYLINE: DAVID NIXON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 479 words


Manitobans are responding to a call for help from the province's strained
refugee services amid a continuing surge of people crossing the border illegally
from the United States.

The Winnipeg Foundation announced $33,000 in emergency grants on Monday to
support the needs of refugee claimants.

The announcement followed the arrival of 21 people over the weekend, largely
originating from African countries, who made refugee claims in Manitoba, plus
another five on Monday, according to border officials.

"It's going to continue," said Rita Chahal, executive director of the Manitoba
Interfaith Immigration Council (MIIC), who put out a call Monday asking the
community and various levels of government for more funding.

"We've identified our most crucial need is temporary housing ... if anyone comes
knocking, we don't have anywhere for them to stay right now."

The influx of asylum seekers from the United States is expected to continue amid
uncertainty caused by U.S. President Donald Trump's executive order that
temporarily banned Syrian refugees and immigrants from seven Muslim-majority
countries. That order was blocked by a U.S. federal appeals court last week.

In an average year, MIIC sees 50 to 60 refugee claimants. In the current fiscal
year, they've seen around 300 so far, with almost 60 in February alone.

MIIC runs the only temporary housing services for refugee claimants in Winnipeg.
Three units are available that can accomodate five people each, but these units
were already full when the latest group of 21 refugee claimants arrived. MIIC
staff worked over the weekend to transport refugees to Winnipeg and find
accommodation for them, according to Ms. Chahal.

Winnipeg's Salvation Army is temporarily housing most of the 21 refugee
claimants who arrived over the weekend. Law students from the University of
Manitoba have offered to help process refugee claimants to alleviate the strain
on MIIC's paralegal employees. Ms. Chahal said she's also pursuing offers of
help from municipal and international groups.

Manitoba Premier Brian Pallister said Monday that the province and the federal
government are discussing options to deal with a rising number of refugees
crossing the border from the United States.

Manitoba is not alone in facing a strain on resources for refugee claimants. In
British Columbia, the Inland Refugee Society had seen 40 refugee claimants in
February as of Friday and 90 in January.

It's a big jump from 2015, when the monthly totals ranged from 6 to 25, said
Julia St. Pierre, special projects co-ordinator at the society.

The RCMP could not provide specific figures, but they confirmed that there has
been an increase in illegal migration in Quebec, Manitoba, and British Columbia,
with the largest increase being seen in Quebec.

More than 40 people illegally crossed the border in Quebec this past weekend,
according to border officials.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2017 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            February 13, 2017 Monday
                                Ontario Edition

IMMIGRATION;
Quebec, Manitoba see refugee influx;
More than 40 people have claimed refugee status in Quebec this weekend, as have
21 in Manitoba according to border officials

BYLINE: SUNNY DHILLON, SEAN FINE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 919 words


More than 40 people illegally crossed the U.S. border and claimed refugee status
within Quebec this past weekend, while 21 others did the same in Manitoba,
border officials say.

The influx of asylum seekers from the United States comes as Prime Minister
Justin Trudeau arrives at the White House on Monday for his first meeting with
U.S. President Donald Trump. Mr. Trump last month signed an executive order that
temporarily banned Syrian refugees and immigrants from seven Muslimmajority
countries.

Patrizia Giolti, a Canada Border Services Agency spokesperson, in an e-mail
Sunday said 42 people made refugee claims in Quebec over the weekend. Ms. Giolti
did not say precisely where the refugee claimants crossed.

The RCMP did not respond to messages seeking comment Sunday. A force
spokesperson earlier said it had witnessed an increase in illegal border
crossings in Quebec, Manitoba, and British Columbia, with the largest of those
increases in Quebec.

Mr. Trudeau said last week his government was "very concerned" about the rise in
asylum seekers. He emphasized the need to protect both migrants and Canada's
border.

Refugee lawyer David Matas said Sunday when police discover migrants crossing
into Canada they take them to the CBSA, which then screens them for security
reasons but does not detain the migrants simply for entering the country at an
unguarded area.

He said he has had a number of clients from Somalia who crossed into Canada,
avoiding the portsof-entry.

"They have dramatic stories," he said in an interview. "They start off in
Somalia. Then they'll go to Djibouti, Kenya, and all the way down to South
Africa. Sometimes they have a lot of trouble in South Africa because there's a
lot of xenophobia there. Brazil is often a destination ... and then they just
come north from there traversing all the Latin American countries. And
eventually they end up in Canada."

CBSA did not provide annual totals for refugee claimants in Quebec.

But it has said the number of refugee claimants crossing into Manitoba so far in
the 2016-17 fiscal year is over 400, up from 68 in 2013-14. Most were from
African countries, particularly Somalia.

Unlike the United States, Canada will not deport failed refugee claimants to
Somalia because the country is deemed too dangerous, Mr. Matas said.

"People here without status are not guaranteed to stay indefinitely. They're
just here supposedly temporarily," he said.

Though CBSA and the RCMP said the largest increase in asylum seekers was in
Quebec, much of the attention in recent days has been paid to crossings in
Manitoba, with migrants arriving in the town of Emerson, population 700.

Greg Janzen, Emerson's reeve, in an interview Sunday said he does not expect the
increased arrivals to stop any time soon.

All 21 people who arrived in Emerson this weekend showed up Saturday morning.
Mr. Janzen said it was unclear why no one arrived Sunday. On the previous
Saturday, the RCMP stopped 19 people who had crossed the border.

The lawyer for two men from Ghana who passed through Emerson just before
Christmas has said they lost fingers to frostbite.

Mr. Janzen said there is worry among locals that some of the people attempting
to cross into Emerson might not have survived.

"That's another coffee-shop discussion," he said.

"... That possibility is real. They have been coming across when there's wind
chills of -35. ... I'd hate to be a farmer all of a sudden finding somebody dead
laying there on the side of his field."

Emerson officials met with the RCMP, CBSA and representatives from the federal
and provincial governments on Thursday to address the community's concerns. Mr.
Janzen said after the meeting, he was given assurances Emerson would receive
support from other levels of government.

He said Sunday he was satisfied with that level of support.

Migrants who cross at open fields or other unguarded areas are not covered by
the CanadaU.S. Safe Third Country Agreement, and have the right to make a
refugee claim in Canada.

The safe-third-country agreement requires refugee claimants to apply for status
in the country they arrive in first. The United States is the only country with
which Canada has such an agreement. A Canadian government website says that that
is partly because the United States meets a high standard of human rights.

At a minimum, all refugee claimants on Canadian soil are entitled to an oral
hearing and fair procedures, under the Supreme Court's 1985 Singh decision
establishing modern refugee rights in Canada, according to Efrat Arbel, who
teaches law at the University of British Columbia's Allard Law School.

At the refugee hearings in Canada, a migrant's entry through a safe third
country is irrelevant, Prof. Arbel said.

"It doesn't matter how you've entered. Once you make your way in you advance
your refugee claim as usual," she said. "If you've entered through a field, then
the safe-third-country agreement wouldn't be attached to your claim. You're not
obligated to disclose the manner by which you have entered."

She said the safe-third-country agreement creates an incentive for unauthorized
border crossings. "It therefore not only puts the lives and safety of refugees
at risk, it also makes our border less secure, more disorderly, more dangerous,"
she said.

A group of 235 Canadian legal scholars has called on the federal government to
halt the safe-thirdcountry agreement. A recent report by the Harvard Immigration
and Refugee Clinic argued the United States can no longer be considered a "safe"
country for refugees.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2017 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                    The Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                            February 13, 2017 Monday
                                 First Edition

Lawyers call for Safe Third Country pact change;
Government under pressure to repeal it since Trump's executive order

BYLINE: Nicole Thompson The Canadian Press

SECTION: CANADA / WORLD; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 512 words


Immigration lawyers say they've received an influx of requests from refugees in
the United States hoping to seek asylum in Canada - despite an agreement that
makes it nearly impossible.

The Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement requires people to apply for asylum
in the first country where they arrive, unless an immediate family member lives
in the other country.

The Canadian government has faced pressure to repeal the agreement since U.S.
President Donald Trump issued an executive order banning travel and immigration
from seven Muslim-majority countries. But Canada's government has so far
refused.

Alastair Clarke, of Clarke Immigration Law in Winnipeg, said that's a mistake.
He said 10 new clients have been referred to him in the past week - some of whom
crossed the border on foot, successfully bypassing border points so they could
make their refugee claims once already in the country.

It's a method police say is on the rise - the RCMP said 21 people were arrested
for illegally crossing the border into Emerson, Man., Saturday.

Clarke said it's putting people at risk.

"They're crossing farmer fields on foot," he added. "When it's -10, -15 with the
wind chill factors, it's highly risky."

He noted that refugees are avoiding coming through border crossing points
because they fear that if they get turned away from the border due to the Safe
Third Country Agreement, they won't be able to file for refugee status in Canada
later on.

He said the agreement should be either "repealed, amended or suspended."

"The refugees who are coming into Canada do not feel safe in the United States,"
he said.

The federal government did not immediately respond to a request for comment
Sunday, but earlier this month, a spokesperson said the government wouldn't
suspend the agreement.

"Our government has no indication that the executive order has any impact on the
American asylum system," said the Feb. 1 statement from Nancy Caron.

Caron said the agreement is focused on how to handle people who show up at
either land border to make asylum claims, not the resettled refugees covered by
Trump's edict. Even if they were covered, the deal operates independently of any
executive orders, she added.

Henry Giroux, an American-born cultural critic and professor at McMaster
University, said it's no wonder refugees don't feel safe in the States.

"It seems to me that when you have seven countries largely populated by Muslims
labelled as terrorist countries, when in fact almost none of those countries has
actually been responsible for a terrorist act in the United States, it instills
an enormous amount of fear in people. An enormous amount of insecurity," he
said.

Zool Suleman, of Suleman and Co. in Vancouver, said he's received calls from
people originally from Mexico, Central America, South America and Africa - not
just claimants from Muslim-majority countries.

"I'm hearing from people who are already in America and do not feel that they
will get a fair hearing. And there has been a noticeable increase in these types
of calls since the executive orders took place," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                     The Times & Transcript (New Brunswick)

                            February 13, 2017 Monday

Lawyers call for changes to Safe Third Country Agreement

SECTION: Pg. B4

LENGTH: 660 words


Immigration lawyers say they've received an influx of requests from refugees in
the U.S. hoping to seek asylum in Canada - despite an agreement that makes it
nearly impossible.

The Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement requires people to apply for asylum
in the first country where they arrive, unless an immediate family member lives
in the other country.

The Canadian government has faced pressure to repeal the agreement since
President Donald Trump issued an executive order banning travel and immigration
from seven Muslim-majority countries. But Canada's government has so far
refused.

Alastair Clarke, of Clarke Immigration Law in Winnipeg, said that's a mistake.
He said 10 new clients have been referred to him in the last week - some of whom
crossed the border on foot, successfully bypassing border points so they could
make their refugee claims once already in the country.

It's a method police say is on the rise - the RCMP said 21 people were arrested
for illegally crossing the border into Emerson, Man., Saturday.

Clarke said it's putting people at risk.

"They're crossing farmer fields on foot," he added. "When it's -10, -15 with the
wind chill factors, it's highly risky."

He noted that refugees are avoiding coming through border crossing points
because they fear that if they get turned away from the border due to the Safe
Third Country Agreement, they won't be able to file for refugee status in Canada
later on.

He said the agreement should either be "repealed, amended or suspended."

"The refugees who are coming into Canada do not feel safe in the United States,"
he said.

The federal government did not immediately respond to a request for comment
Sunday, but earlier this month, a spokesperson said the government wouldn't
suspend the agreement.

"Our government has no indication that the executive order has any impact on the
American asylum system,'' said the Feb. 1 statement from Nancy Caron.

Caron said the agreement is focused on how to handle people who show up at
either land border to make asylum claims, not the resettled refugees covered by
Trump's edict. Even if they were covered, the deal operates independently of any
executive orders, she added.

Henry Giroux, an American-born cultural critic and professor at McMaster
University in Hamilton, said it's no wonder refugees don't feel safe in the U.S.

"It seems to me that when you have seven countries largely populated by Muslims
labelled as terrorist countries, when in fact almost none of those countries has
actually been responsible for a terrorist act in the United States, it instills
an enormous amount of fear in people. An enormous amount of insecurity," he
said.

Zool Suleman, of Suleman and Co. in Vancouver, said he's heard from people other
than those who would have been affected by the executive order.

"It's not as simple as, 'I'm a new refugee to America and I want to come to
Canada.' There is such a group, but there's another group of people who arrived
in America from very difficult situations years ago, who now have lives in
America," he said.

He said he's received calls from people who were originally from Mexico, Central
America, South America and Africa. It's not just claimants from Muslim-majority
countries.

"I'm hearing from people who are already in America and do not feel that they
will get a fair hearing. And there has been a noticeable increase in these types
of calls since the executive orders took place."

Suleman said his responses to callers vary case-by-case, but he said he has to
warn them about the Safe Third Country Agreement.

"I think the Canadian government should seriously explore if the Safe Third
Country Agreement is a viable option," he said. "Increasingly this problem is
going to be on the front pages, and I think our government needs to look at some
sort of humanitarian response."

Trump's executive order was suspended by a judge pending a legal challenge in
the U.S. courts. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2017 Times &; Transcript (Moncton)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2017 The Times & Transcript.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             Waterloo Region Record

                            February 13, 2017 Monday
                                 First Edition

Lawyers call for changes to Safe Third Country pact;
Government under pressure to repeal it since Trump order

BYLINE: Nicole Thompson, The Canadian Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 549 words


Immigration lawyers say they've received an influx of requests from refugees in
the United States hoping to seek asylum in Canada - despite an agreement that
makes it nearly impossible.

The Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement requires people to apply for asylum
in the first country where they arrive, unless an immediate family member lives
in the other country.

The Canadian government has faced pressure to repeal the agreement since
President Donald Trump issued an executive order banning travel and immigration
from seven Muslim-majority countries. But Canada's government has so far
refused.

Alastair Clarke, of Clarke Immigration Law in Winnipeg, said that's a mistake.
He said 10 new clients have been referred to him in the past week - some of whom
crossed the border on foot, successfully bypassing border points so they could
make their refugee claims once already in the country.

It's a method police say is on the rise - the RCMP said 21 people were arrested
for illegally crossing the border into Emerson, Man., Saturday.

Clarke said it's putting people at risk.

"They're crossing farmer fields on foot," he added. "When it's -10, -15 with the
wind chill factors, it's highly risky."

He noted that refugees are avoiding coming through border crossing points
because they fear that if they get turned away from the border due to the Safe
Third Country Agreement, they won't be able to file for refugee status in Canada
later on.

He said the agreement should be either "repealed, amended or suspended."

The federal government did not immediately respond to a request for comment
Sunday, but earlier this month, a spokesperson said it wouldn't suspend the
agreement.

"Our government has no indication that the executive order has any impact on the
American asylum system," said the Feb. 1 statement from Nancy Caron.

She said the pact is focused on how to handle people who show up at either land
border to make asylum claims, not the resettled refugees covered by Trump's
edict.

Even if they were covered, the deal operates independently of executive orders,
she added.

Henry Giroux, an American-born cultural critic and professor at McMaster
University in Hamilton, said it's no wonder refugees don't feel safe in the
States.

"It seems to me that when you have seven countries largely populated by Muslims
labelled as terrorist countries, when in fact almost none of those countries has
actually been responsible for a terrorist act in the United States, it instils
an enormous amount of fear in people, an enormous amount of insecurity."

Zool Suleman, of Suleman and Co. in Vancouver, said he's heard from people other
than those who would have been affected by the executive order.

"It's not as simple as, 'I'm a new refugee to America and I want to come to
Canada.' There is such a group, but there's another group of people who arrived
in America from very difficult situations years ago, who now have lives in
America," he said.

He said he's received calls from people originally from Mexico, Central America,
South America and Africa. It's not just claimants from Muslim-majority
countries.

"I'm hearing from people who are already in America and do not feel that they
will get a fair hearing."

Trump's executive order was suspended by a judge pending a legal challenge in
the U.S. courts.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Metroland Media Group Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                   Ottawa Sun

                            February 12, 2017 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

21 busted crossing into Manitoba; Small town near border sees surge in asylum
seekers from the U.S. in recent months

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 592  words

DATELINE: EMERSON, Man.


The Mounties say 21 people crossed the border illegally this weekend near a
Manitoba community where there has been a surge in asylum seekers the latest to
arrive in a method authorities say is on the rise.

RCMP say they arrested two groups of people, one group of 16 and the other of
five, illegally crossing at Emerson, Manitoba, late Friday and early Saturday.

"I had a few people call me saying they were ringing their doorbell and banging
their doors," said Greg Janzen, the community's reeve.

"I know one household that let a young family in until the police came," he
added.

Police say all of the people asked to make refugee claims and were taken to the
Canada Border Services Agency port at Emerson so they could do so.

No one could be reached with the border services agency on Saturday for word on
their status.

An increasing number of refugee claimants, mostly from African countries such as
Somalia and Ghana, have been risking freezing temperatures and walking through
farmers fields to get over the border and into Emerson in the last few months.

RCMP Sgt. Harold Pfleiderer said in an email there has been an increase in
illegal migration in Quebec, Manitoba, and British Columbia, with the largest
increase being seen in Quebec, although he said police weren't able to provide
specific numbers.

The increase follows planned new restrictions in the United States on refugees.

Asylum seekers who cross the border illegally are generally doing so to
circumvent the Safe Third Country Agreement, which is based on the premise that
Canada and the United States are generally safe countries for refugees.

That means Canadian officials typically won't admit refugees who have already
claimed asylum in the United States. Those who cross illegally can make their
claims once they're in Canada, according to immigration lawyer Julie Lessard.

"With the instability and insecurity these people feel in the United States they
try to enter illegally, because that's the way to go around that agreement," she
said.

The mayor of the U.S.-adjacent township of Hemmingford, Que. says there are some
refugees coming across every day, usually straight into the arms of RCMP
officers already waiting to take them into custody.

"They want to be noticed, they're not hiding. They want to be picked up," Paul
Viau told The Canadian Press.

Politicians in Emerson met with RCMP and the Canada Border Services Agency on
Thursday to address concerns after 22 refugees walked into Canada last weekend.

Janzen said Saturday that he was pleased with the communication from authorities
about the latest arrivals. He said authorities were asked if they needed the
town hall for the latest arrivals, which was where last weekend's refugees were
sheltered, but he said the offer was declined.

The RCMP said Thursday it is increasing resources in the Emerson area to
intercept border jumpers and take them to officials should they make a refugee
claim.

Two men from Ghana were severely frostbitten in December when they crossed the
border at Emerson.

Janzen said it isn't as cold now as it was before in southern Manitoba, and he
thinks that means the number of illegal crossings will likely increase.

He said he's faced some criticism and even claims he's racist for advising
residents to not open their doors and call RCMP if a stranger shows up.

He said he doesn't disagree with the person who opened the door for the family,
though.

"He felt sorry for them. At that point, you know, the humanitarian part kicks
in," Janzen said. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2017 Sun Media Corporation. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: John Woods, The Canadian Press; Greg Janzen, centre, Reeve of
Emerson-Franklin, speaks at a town hall meeting to discuss the refugees crossing
into Canada near his small Manitoba border town.;

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2017 Ottawa Sun
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                  thespec.com

                            February 12, 2017 Sunday

RCMP say 21 people seeking refugee status arrested for crossing Manitoba border

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 585 words


EMERSON, Man. - The Mounties say 21 people crossed the border illegally this
weekend near a Manitoba community where there has been a surge in asylum seekers
- the latest to arrive in a method authorities say is on the rise.

RCMP say they arrested two groups of people, one group of 16 and the other of
five, illegally crossing at Emerson, Manitoba, late Friday and early Saturday.

"I had a few people call me saying they were ringing their doorbell and banging
their doors," said Greg Janzen, the community's reeve.

"I know one household that let a young family in until the police came," he
added.

Police say all of the people asked to make refugee claims and were taken to the
Canada Border Services Agency port at Emerson so they could do so.

No one could be reached with the border services agency on Saturday for word on
their status.

An increasing number of refugee claimants, mostly from African countries such as
Somalia and Ghana, have been risking freezing temperatures and walking through
farmers fields to get over the border and into Emerson in the last few months.

RCMP Sgt. Harold Pfleiderer said in an email there has been an increase in
illegal migration in Quebec, Manitoba, and British Columbia, with the largest
increase being seen in Quebec, although he said police weren't able to provide
specific numbers.

The increase follows planned new restrictions in the United States on refugees.

Asylum seekers who cross the border illegally are generally doing so to
circumvent the Safe Third Country Agreement, which is based on the premise that
Canada and the United States are generally safe countries for refugees.

That means Canadian officials typically won't admit refugees who have already
claimed asylum in the United States. Those who cross illegally can make their
claims once they're in Canada, according to immigration lawyer Julie Lessard.

"With the instability and insecurity these people feel in the United States they
try to enter illegally, because that's the way to go around that agreement," she
said.

The mayor of the U.S.-adjacent township of Hemmingford, Que. says there are some
refugees coming across every day, usually straight into the arms of RCMP
officers already waiting to take them into custody.

"They want to be noticed, they're not hiding. They want to be picked up," Paul
Viau told The Canadian Press.

Politicians in Emerson met with RCMP and the Canada Border Services Agency on
Thursday to address concerns after 22 refugees walked into Canada last weekend.

Janzen said Saturday that he was pleased with the communication from authorities
about the latest arrivals. He said authorities were asked if they needed the
town hall for the latest arrivals, which was where last weekend's refugees were
sheltered, but he said the offer was declined.

The RCMP said Thursday it is increasing resources in the Emerson area to
intercept border jumpers and take them to officials should they make a refugee
claim.

Two men from Ghana were severely frostbitten in December when they crossed the
border at Emerson.

Janzen said it isn't as cold now as it was before in southern Manitoba, and he
thinks that means the number of illegal crossings will likely increase.

He said he's faced some criticism and even claims he's racist for advising
residents to not open their doors and call RCMP if a stranger shows up.

He said he doesn't disagree with the person who opened the door for the family,
though.

"He felt sorry for them. At that point, you know, the humanitarian part kicks
in," Janzen said.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                  thespec.com

                            February 12, 2017 Sunday

Lawyers call for changes to Safe Third Country Agreement amid influx of refugees

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 652 words


Immigration lawyers say they've received an influx of requests from refugees in
the U.S. hoping to seek asylum in Canada - despite an agreement that makes it
nearly impossible.

The Canada-U.S. Safe Third Country Agreement requires people to apply for asylum
in the first country where they arrive, unless an immediate family member lives
in the other country.

The Canadian government has faced pressure to repeal the agreement since
President Donald Trump issued an executive order banning travel and immigration
from seven Muslim-majority countries. But Canada's government has so far
refused.

Alastair Clarke, of Clarke Immigration Law in Winnipeg, said that's a mistake.
He said 10 new clients have been referred to him in the last week - some of whom
crossed the border on foot, successfully bypassing border points so they could
make their refugee claims once already in the country.

It's a method police say is on the rise - the RCMP said 21 people were arrested
for illegally crossing the border into Emerson, Man., Saturday.

Clarke said it's putting people at risk.

"They're crossing farmer fields on foot," he added. "When it's -10, -15 with the
wind chill factors, it's highly risky."

He noted that refugees are avoiding coming through border crossing points
because they fear that if they get turned away from the border due to the Safe
Third Country Agreement, they won't be able to file for refugee status in Canada
later on.

He said the agreement should either be "repealed, amended or suspended."

"The refugees who are coming into Canada do not feel safe in the United States,"
he said.

The federal government did not immediately respond to a request for comment
Sunday, but earlier this month, a spokesperson said the government wouldn't
suspend the agreement.

"Our government has no indication that the executive order has any impact on the
American asylum system," said the Feb. 1 statement from Nancy Caron.

Caron said the agreement is focused on how to handle people who show up at
either land border to make asylum claims, not the resettled refugees covered by
Trump's edict. Even if they were covered, the deal operates independently of any
executive orders, she added.

Henry Giroux, an American-born cultural critic and professor at McMaster
University in Hamilton, said it's no wonder refugees don't feel safe in the U.S.

"It seems to me that when you have seven countries largely populated by Muslims
labelled as terrorist countries, when in fact almost none of those countries has
actually been responsible for a terrorist act in the United States, it instills
an enormous amount of fear in people. An enormous amount of insecurity," he
said.

Zool Suleman, of Suleman and Co. in Vancouver, said he's heard from people other
than those who would have been affected by the executive order.

"It's not as simple as, 'I'm a new refugee to America and I want to come to
Canada.' There is such a group, but there's another group of people who arrived
in America from very difficult situations years ago, who now have lives in
America," he said.

He said he's received calls from people who were originally from Mexico, Central
America, South America and Africa. It's not just claimants from Muslim-majority
countries.

"I'm hearing from people who are already in America and do not feel that they
will get a fair hearing. And there has been a noticeable increase in these types
of calls since the executive orders took place."

Suleman said his responses to callers vary case-by-case, but he said he has to
warn them about the Safe Third Country Agreement.

"I think the Canadian government should seriously explore if the Safe Third
Country Agreement is a viable option," he said. "Increasingly this problem is
going to be on the front pages, and I think our government needs to look at some
sort of humanitarian response."

Trump's executive order was suspended by a judge pending a legal challenge in
the U.S. courts.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                  thespec.com

                            February 12, 2017 Sunday

RCMP say 21 people seeking refugee status arrested for crossing Manitoba border

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 584 words


EMERSON, Man. - The Mounties say 21 people crossed the border illegally this
weekend near a Manitoba community where there has been a surge in asylum seekers
- the latest to arrive in a method authorities say is on the rise.

RCMP say they arrested two groups of people, one group of 16 and the other of
five, illegally crossing at Emerson, Man., late Friday and early Saturday.

"I had a few people call me saying they were ringing their doorbell and banging
their doors," said Greg Janzen, the community's reeve.

"I know one household that let a young family in until the police came," he
added.

Police say all of the people asked to make refugee claims and were taken to the
Canada Border Services Agency port at Emerson so they could do so.

No one could be reached with the border services agency on Saturday for word on
their status.

An increasing number of refugee claimants, mostly from African countries such as
Somalia and Ghana, have been risking freezing temperatures and walking through
farmers fields to get over the border and into Emerson in the last few months.

RCMP Sgt. Harold Pfleiderer said in an email there has been an increase in
illegal migration in Quebec, Manitoba, and British Columbia, with the largest
increase being seen in Quebec, although he said police weren't able to provide
specific numbers.

The increase follows planned new restrictions in the United States on refugees.

Asylum seekers who cross the border illegally are generally doing so to
circumvent the Safe Third Country Agreement, which is based on the premise that
Canada and the United States are generally safe countries for refugees.

That means Canadian officials typically won't admit refugees who have already
claimed asylum in the United States. Those who cross illegally can make their
claims once they're in Canada, according to immigration lawyer Julie Lessard.

"With the instability and insecurity these people feel in the United States they
try to enter illegally, because that's the way to go around that agreement," she
said.

The mayor of the U.S.-adjacent township of Hemmingford, Que. says there are some
refugees coming across every day, usually straight into the arms of RCMP
officers already waiting to take them into custody.

"They want to be noticed, they're not hiding. They want to be picked up," Paul
Viau told The Canadian Press.

Politicians in Emerson met with RCMP and the Canada Border Services Agency on
Thursday to address concerns after 22 refugees walked into Canada last weekend.

Janzen said Saturday that he was pleased with the communication from authorities
about the latest arrivals. He said authorities were asked if they needed the
town hall for the latest arrivals, which was where last weekend's refugees were
sheltered, but he said the offer was declined.

The RCMP said Thursday it is increasing resources in the Emerson area to
intercept border jumpers and take them to officials should they make a refugee
claim.

Two men from Ghana were severely frostbitten in December when they crossed the
border at Emerson.

Janzen said it isn't as cold now as it was before in southern Manitoba, and he
thinks that means the number of illegal crossings will likely increase.

He said he's faced some criticism and even claims he's racist for advising
residents to not open their doors and call RCMP if a stranger shows up.

He said he doesn't disagree with the person who opened the door for the family,
though.

"He felt sorry for them. At that point, you know, the humanitarian part kicks
in," Janzen said.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                  thespec.com

                            February 12, 2017 Sunday

RCMP say 21 people seeking refugee status arrested for crossing Manitoba border

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 584 words


EMERSON, Man. - The Mounties say 21 people crossed the border illegally this
weekend near a Manitoba community where there has been a surge in asylum seekers
- the latest to arrive in a method authorities say is on the rise.

RCMP say they arrested two groups of people, one group of 16 and the other of
five, illegally crossing at Emerson, Man., late Friday and early Saturday.

"I had a few people call me saying they were ringing their doorbell and banging
their doors," said Greg Janzen, the community's reeve.

"I know one household that let a young family in until the police came," he
added.

Police say all of the people asked to make refugee claims and were taken to the
Canada Border Services Agency port at Emerson so they could do so.

No one could be reached with the border services agency on Saturday for word on
their status.

An increasing number of refugee claimants, mostly from African countries such as
Somalia and Ghana, have been risking freezing temperatures and walking through
farmers fields to get over the border and into Emerson in the last few months.

RCMP Sgt. Harold Pfleiderer said in an email there has been an increase in
illegal migration in Quebec, Manitoba, and British Columbia, with the largest
increase being seen in Quebec, although he said police weren't able to provide
specific numbers.

The increase follows planned new restrictions in the United States on refugees.

Asylum seekers who cross the border illegally are generally doing so to
circumvent the Safe Third Country Agreement, which is based on the premise that
Canada and the United States are generally safe countries for refugees.

That means Canadian officials typically won't admit refugees who have already
claimed asylum in the United States. Those who cross illegally can make their
claims once they're in Canada, according to immigration lawyer Julie Lessard.

"With the instability and insecurity these people feel in the United States they
try to enter illegally, because that's the way to go around that agreement," she
said.

The mayor of the U.S.-adjacent township of Hemmingford, Que. says there are some
refugees coming across every day, usually straight into the arms of RCMP
officers already waiting to take them into custody.

"They want to be noticed, they're not hiding. They want to be picked up," Paul
Viau told The Canadian Press.

Politicians in Emerson met with RCMP and the Canada Border Services Agency on
Thursday to address concerns after 22 refugees walked into Canada last weekend.

Janzen said Saturday that he was pleased with the communication from authorities
about the latest arrivals. He said authorities were asked if they needed the
town hall for the latest arrivals, which was where last weekend's refugees were
sheltered, but he said the offer was declined.

The RCMP said Thursday it is increasing resources in the Emerson area to
intercept border jumpers and take them to officials should they make a refugee
claim.

Two men from Ghana were severely frostbitten in December when they crossed the
border at Emerson.

Janzen said it isn't as cold now as it was before in southern Manitoba, and he
thinks that means the number of illegal crossings will likely increase.

He said he's faced some criticism and even claims he's racist for advising
residents to not open their doors and call RCMP if a stranger shows up.

He said he doesn't disagree with the person who opened the door for the family,
though.

"He felt sorry for them. At that point, you know, the humanitarian part kicks
in," Janzen said.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           February 4, 2017 Saturday
                                Ontario Edition

IMMIGRATION;
U.S. roadblocks may spur Latin detour;
Trump's policies are prompting migrants to shift their attention to other host
countries, particularly Mexico, Brazil and Chile

BYLINE: STEPHANIE NOLEN, Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 1267 words

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO


U.S. President Donald Trump's executive orders on refugees and immigration in
the United States have governments throughout the Americas preparing for a
significant change in the flow of migrants - and may create new challenges for
countries with limited experience in receiving foreigners seeking to stay.

The flow of migrants has historically run north: More than 135,000 people from
Central America claimed asylum in Mexico and North America last year, fleeing
violence at home, as hundreds of thousands before them have done since a series
of U.S.backed wars destabilized the region in the 1980s. Colombians fled north
from civil war, and more recently, tens of thousands of Venezuelans have sought
asylum in the United States as the economy of their country crumbles.

In addition, growing numbers of "extra-continentals" (refugees and migrants from
the Middle East and sub-Saharan Africa) have been using Latin America as a route
north in the past few years, in response to tighter border controls in Europe.

But the process of reaching and staying in the United States has grown steadily
more difficult.

First, the Obama administration increased border enforcement and deported a
record 2.5 million people. Now, Mr. Trump's ban on refugees, plans to build a
wall along the U.S. border and pledge to heavily augment border patrols - and
the confusion that surrounds all these initiatives - have combined to create a
sense of much greater risk and uncertainty for those seeking to enter the United
States.

And that means new attention on Mexico, which is already flooded with asylum
applications from those who can't get to the United States - and on the
continent's other attractive host countries, particularly Brazil and Chile.

"We're worried," said Candido Pontes, director of the Rio de Janeiro office of
the Catholic charity Caritas, which provides the majority of support to refugees
in Brazil. "We're very aware that [a surge] in arrivals could occur."

He said Brazil has a strong track record of welcoming refugees - more than 40
per cent of asylum claims are granted - but has no program to offer them support
with housing, language training, employment or basic income.

When refugees do access those, it's through charities, primarily Caritas.

The country currently feeling the largest direct impact of the Trump policy
shift is Mexico, which up until now has detained and deported tens of thousands
of Central Americans every year in what is effectively outsourced border control
for the United States. It is not clear whether Mexico intends to enforce those
deportations going forward. In addition, thousands of Cubans currently in Mexico
who were bound for the United States were suddenly trapped when, in the last
days of his term, former president Barack Obama ended a long-time policy of
giving Cubans the right to remain if they entered the United States. And the
International Organization for Migration estimates 40,000 Haitians, mostly
economic migrants, are in Mexico as well.

"Mexico has changed dramatically in the last year and is making a much more
robust commitment," to the rights of asylum seekers, said Renata Dubini,
Americas director for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. "They
were taken a bit by surprise" by a surge in applications last year, she said.
(The number of refugee claims recognized over 2015 increased by 229 per cent,
for the highest total since the 1980s). But church and other civil society
organizations have helped drive a more humanitarian response.

Mexico's economy is already suffering considerable strain from the impact of
Trump orders and threats, including a 20-percent border tax on exports, and a
pledge to end the North American free-trade agreement. The peso has plunged
since his election. Brazil, too, has a political and economic crisis, and
unemployment at nearly 12 per cent.

Neither country has widespread support for spending government resources on
foreigners.

That could boost the profile of Chile, the most stable country in the region;
its per capita income is 40-per-cent higher than that of Mexico. Chile also
offers migrants the ability to convert a tourist visa easily into a one- or
two-year work visa, a system that many Haitians are using. Asylum applications
have been rising steadily, from 260 applications in 2010 to 2,299 last year; 80
per cent of the claimants last year were Colombians. Chile offers refugees
housing and social support in integration, but Rodrigo Sandoval, who heads the
Department of Immigration of the Ministry of Interior, questioned how many
Central Americans or others may arrive if the Trump directives change migrant
flows.

"There are factors such as the language and political, institutional and
economic stability of Chile that could make it attractive as a migratory
destination," he said by e-mail. "However, it should not be forgotten that Chile
is located at the end of the world, so it is not within the first options for
nationals of those countries."

In the Trump era, however, migration destinations may be evaluated on new terms.
"Migration is extremely nimble, much broader than it used to be," said Joel
Millman, spokesperson for the International Organization for Migration. The fact
that Somalis, Iraqis and Nepalis were - at least until last week - travelling to
the United States from Ecuador or Brazil "proves that poverty and distance
aren't a barrier any more - if your chances of getting asylum are high."

The largest influx to Brazil at present is Venezuelans, followed by Cubans.
Brazil accepted 1,555 refugees in 2016 - but not the Venezuelans and Colombians.

Nearly half of those granted asylum were Syrians, followed by Angolans and
claimants from Congo. Since the 2010 earthquake, more than 90,000 Haitians have
sought a "humanitarian visa" in Brazil that allowed them to stay and work,
although the inward flow reversed last year as the economy cratered.

The nascent Haitian community has had even greater visibility in Chile,
traditionally a country with limited racial diversity.

There were just a few hundred Haitians who sought work in Chile before the
earthquake; 23,000 received permits last year.

"The arrival of Haitian migrants has been a challenge for the country, basically
because of the language barrier," Mr. Sandoval said. "Although Chile as a
country is unaccustomed to ethnic diversity and tends to react with suspicion to
anything that can be considered different, there is a large sector of society
that values migration and appreciates the social, economic and cultural
contributions that the different migrant groups bring."

Gustavo Marrone, head of the national committee on refugees in Brazil's Ministry
of Justice, said many Brazilians lack a basic understanding of the refugee
issue, and think of them as criminals or fugitives - but the high-profile
participation of a first-ever team of refugees in the 2016 Olympics in Rio
helped to improve understanding of why people flee their countries and what
their rights are under international law.

Mr. Marrone said his department has been studying the Canadian model of
community sponsorship with the idea of trying to replicate it; Brazil has
pledged to UNHCR to accept 1,500 Syrians this year and a further 1,500 next
year.

"We cannot have a program with the breadth of Canada's because we have serious
economic and social limitations," he said. "We need to ensure that these people
are not marginalized and don't become a social problem ... At a time when we
have unemployment, an economic crisis, a political crisis, [accepting them]
could generate a bigger problem for them than a solution."

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2017 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      February 3, 2017 Friday 2:26 AM GMT

Angelina Jolie attacks Donald Trump's travel ban

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 365 words


Angelina Jolie has warned US President Donald Trump he is "playing with fire" by
implementing his controversial travel ban.

The actress and UN ambassador fiercely criticised the decision to prevent
refugees from entering America, saying the move would not make the country
safer.

Writing in the New York Times, Jolie, 41, said Mr Trump's executive order -
which blocked entry to the US for nationals from seven Muslim majority countries
- risked fuelling extremism abroad and creating "more instability, hatred and
violence".

"Refugees are men, women and children caught in the fury of war, or the cross
hairs of persecution," she said.

"Far from being terrorists, they are often the victims of terrorism themselves.

"Every government must balance the needs of its citizens with its international
responsibilities. But our response must be measured and should be based on
facts, not fear."

Jolie, whose father Jon Voight has been a vocal supporter of Mr Trump, referred
to her six children, who she said were "all born in foreign lands and are proud
American citizens".

"If we send a message that it is acceptable to close the door to refugees, or to
discriminate among them on the basis of religion, we are playing with fire," she
added.

"We are lighting a fuse that will burn across continents, inviting the very
instability we seek to protect ourselves against."

Jolie, who has recently avoided the spotlight following her divorce from Brad
Pitt, said the world was witnessing "the worst refugee crisis since World War
Two" and some countries in Africa and the Middle East were "bursting at the
seams with refugees".

She quoted f ormer US president Ronald Reagan as she said that "shutting our
door to refugees or discriminating among them is not our way, and does not make
us safer".

Jolie said: "If we create a tier of second-class refugees, implying Muslims are
less worthy of protection, we fuel extremism abroad, and at home we undermine
the ideal of diversity cherished by Democrats and Republicans alike - ' America
is committed to the world because so much of the world is inside America' in the
words of Ronald Reagan.

"If we divide people beyond our borders, we divide ourselves."

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2017 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 3, 2017 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Refugee Policy Based on Facts, Not Fear

BYLINE: By ANGELINA JOLIE.

Angelina Jolie, a filmmaker, is the special envoy of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 977 words


Refugees are men, women and children caught in the fury of war, or the cross
hairs of persecution. Far from being terrorists, they are often the victims of
terrorism themselves.

I'm proud of our country's history of giving shelter to the most vulnerable
people. Americans have shed blood to defend the idea that human rights transcend
culture, geography, ethnicity and religion. The decision to suspend the
resettlement of refugees to the United States and deny entry to citizens of
seven Muslim-majority countries has been met with shock by our friends around
the world precisely because of this record.

The global refugee crisis and the threat from terrorism make it entirely
justifiable that we consider how best to secure our borders. Every government
must balance the needs of its citizens with its international responsibilities.
But our response must be measured and should be based on facts, not fear.

As the mother of six children, who were all born in foreign lands and are proud
American citizens, I very much want our country to be safe for them, and all our
nation's children. But I also want to know that refugee children who qualify for
asylum will always have a chance to plead their case to a compassionate America.
And that we can manage our security without writing off citizens of entire
countries -- even babies -- as unsafe to visit our country by virtue of
geography or religion.

It is simply not true that our borders are overrun or that refugees are admitted
to the United States without close scrutiny.

Refugees are in fact subject to the highest level of screening of any category
of traveler to the United States. This includes months of interviews, and
security checks carried out by the F.B.I., the National Counterterrorism Center,
the Department of Homeland Security and the State Department.

Furthermore, only the most vulnerable people are put forward for resettlement in
the first place: survivors of torture, and women and children at risk or who
might not survive without urgent, specialized medical assistance. I have visited
countless camps and cities where hundreds of thousands of refugees are barely
surviving and every family has suffered. When the United Nations Refugee Agency
identifies those among them who are most in need of protection, we can be sure
that they deserve the safety, shelter and fresh start that countries like ours
can offer.

And in fact only a minuscule fraction -- less than 1 percent -- of all refugees
in the world are ever resettled in the United States or any other country. There
are more than 65 million refugees and displaced people worldwide. Nine out of 10
refugees live in poor and middle-income countries, not in rich Western nations.
There are 2.8 million Syrian refugees in Turkey alone. Only about 18,000 Syrians
have been resettled in America since 2011.

This disparity points to another, more sobering reality. If we send a message
that it is acceptable to close the door to refugees, or to discriminate among
them on the basis of religion, we are playing with fire. We are lighting a fuse
that will burn across continents, inviting the very instability we seek to
protect ourselves against.

We are already living through the worst refugee crisis since World War II. There
are countries in Africa and the Middle East bursting at the seams with refugees.
For generations American diplomats have joined the United Nations in urging
those countries to keep their borders open, and to uphold international
standards on the treatment of refugees. Many do just that with exemplary
generosity.

What will be our response if other countries use national security as an excuse
to start turning people away, or deny rights on the basis of religion? What
could this mean for the Rohingya from Myanmar, or for Somali refugees, or
millions of other displaced people who happen to be Muslim? And what does this
do to the absolute prohibition in international law against discrimination on
the grounds of faith or religion?

The truth is that even if the numbers of refugees we take in are small, and we
do the bare minimum, we do it to uphold the United Nations conventions and
standards we fought so hard to build after World War II, for the sake of our own
security.

If we Americans say that these obligations are no longer important, we risk a
free-for-all in which even more refugees are denied a home, guaranteeing more
instability, hatred and violence.

If we create a tier of second-class refugees, implying Muslims are less worthy
of protection, we fuel extremism abroad, and at home we undermine the ideal of
diversity cherished by Democrats and Republicans alike: ''America is committed
to the world because so much of the world is inside America,'' in the words of
Ronald Reagan. If we divide people beyond our borders, we divide ourselves.

The lesson of the years we have spent fighting terrorism since Sept. 11 is that
every time we depart from our values we worsen the very problem we are trying to
contain. We must never allow our values to become the collateral damage of a
search for greater security. Shutting our door to refugees or discriminating
among them is not our way, and does not make us safer. Acting out of fear is not
our way. Targeting the weakest does not show strength.

We all want to keep our country safe. So we must look to the sources of the
terrorist threat -- to the conflicts that give space and oxygen to groups like
the Islamic State, and the despair and lawlessness on which they feed. We have
to make common cause with people of all faiths and backgrounds fighting the same
threat and seeking the same security. This is where I would hope any president
of our great nation would lead on behalf of all Americans.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/02/opinion/angelina-jolie-refugee
-policy-should-be-based-on-facts-not-fear.html

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KEITH NEGLEY)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 3, 2017 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Some Stranded Somali Refugees, 'Friend of America' Can Be a Deadly Label

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN.

Follow Jeffrey Gettleman on Twitter @gettleman .

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1171 words


NAIROBI, Kenya -- Ismail Ali Ibrahim gave away everything he owned: his bed, his
sheets, his shirts, his pots, his pans, his plates, even his house.

He didn't care. He was going to America.

But this week, he remained 7,000 miles away, marooned with more than 100 other
Somali refugees in a spartan transit center in central Nairobi that smelled of
nervous sweat.

Mr. Ibrahim and many of his displaced comrades had been waiting more than two
decades to be resettled in the United States and were supposed to fly to America
this week. But their hopes were crushed by President Trump's executive order to
freeze the refugee flow into the United States for at least four months.

More than 25,000 refugees from Somalia, one of the poorest, hungriest, war-torn
countries on earth, were in the pipeline to be resettled in the United States.

Mr. Ibrahim was much closer than most -- so close that, with his ticket,
paperwork and bag all zipped up, the thought of it made his voice quiver. He had
waited 26 long years for this, living in a sweltering, crowded, disease-ridden
refugee camp along the Kenya-Somalia border that is the opposite of hope.

Now his worst fears are shaping up. The Somali refugees who had already been
extensively vetted and approved by several American government agencies will
most likely be bused back to the camps. Many said that they feared for their
lives and that their situation was actually worse than it had been before they
came so close to leaving.

''Trump shocked us,'' Mr. Ibrahim said.

Most of them are now broke, having just two weeks ago given away their worldly
possessions in a spree of happiness to friends less fortunate. But more
worrisome, many refugees said as they gathered under the shade of a mango tree
at the transit center, was the risk that they could be labeled ''friends of
America.'' That's a dangerous tag in a poorly policed refugee camp crawling with
Islamic militants.

''The Shabab will be suspicious of us,'' said Deck Abdi Korriyow, another
refugee, referring to the militant group that has slaughtered thousands of
people across eastern Africa. ''They don't want anyone resettled to the U.S.
They'll think we've been giving information to the Americans.''

Several men around him vigorously nodded when he added, ''Who knows what will
happen to us next?''

Kenya is home to hundreds of thousands of Somali refugees and many are treated
terribly -- constantly harassed, arrested, often beaten, discriminated against,
kept in large camps or locked in a soccer stadium during police roundups, and
sometimes they have even disappeared. Many Kenyans see Somalia the way much of
the world does: as a terrorist threat.

So the refugees have set their sights on a faraway dream. It's called America.
The United States runs a vigorous resettlement program, taking in thousands of
Somalis each year. Being one of them is like holding a winning lottery ticket
and it generates a lot of envy.

Some of the refugees said another reason they dreaded going back to the camps
was because they knew some of their neighbors would barely be able to contain
their glee that the resettlement had not worked out.

''The people against me will be happy,'' Mr. Ibrahim said.

The more than 100 approved refugees here are now stuck because they don't have
proper papers to walk the streets of Nairobi. They were supposed to be walking
the streets of Atlanta, Buffalo, Des Moines and St. Louis by now.

They aren't allowed to leave the transit center, which is in Nairobi's old
Indian quarter; it was supposed to be their last stop. The gate here is large
and unmarked. Security is serious; many of the refugees who pass through here
are hunted in their homelands.

On Wednesday, the center was crowded but relatively quiet. The refugees seemed
bored. Somali women in full veils lay on the sidewalk on their backs. Young men
lounged in a row of scratched up chairs and were not even talking to one
another.

When a chestnut-size mango fell from the tree, a little boy pounced on it,
clearly hungry.

The men spoke of ''the stress.''

''Am I worried?'' asked Salad Rage Saleh, thin and antsy. ''Ever since I've been
born I've been worried.''

American officials did not address the fears of Shabab reprisals directly. One
State Department official said that the government would continue to show
compassion to refugees but that it was also important to protect American
citizens.

Refugee officials said the Shabab fears could be real, but that some refugees
also played up such concerns in an attempt to delay or stop their return to the
camps, which can be depressing on a good day.

Life for many Somali refugees means confronting famine, anarchy, pestilence and
death on a daily basis. Ever since the government collapsed in 1991, Somalia has
been stuck in perpetual crisis.

One set of three brothers at the transit camp fled Somalia after their parents
were killed 25 years ago, trudging across the Kenya border as three lost souls.
For more than a quarter-century, the brothers had been living together in a
small makeshift house in a refugee camp, usually jobless and surviving off the
monthly United Nations rations, which they said had been cut down to seven
pounds of grain, one cup of oil and a bottle capful of salt. The Kenyans have
been threatening to close this camp because of terrorism fears.

The brothers had just cleared the final medical checks to be resettled in Rhode
Island. Ahmed Hassan, the eldest, a quiet man with a red pen in his pocket,
spoke proudly of how in recent days they had been ''trained'' to wear jackets,
hats and gloves when it was cold.

While some Americans have said in recent days that they oppose Mr. Trump's block
on refugees, others have said it makes them feel safer. Refugee officials in
East Africa have been quick to point out that, in the Somalis' case, these
refugees are among the most vetted people entering the United States.

The resettlement process usually takes four to six years to complete and
involves database checks, fingerprinting, countless forms and hours of
background interviews. The tiny percentage of refugees who make it all the way
through are selected because they are considered the most vulnerable of the
vulnerable.

Most will now return to the same squalid camps where they had been living for
years. Others in the pipeline will be put on what the State Department calls
indefinite hold.

When this was announced at the transit center on Saturday at a meeting in the
yard, several men cried.

''It was pretty shattering for me,'' said Lori Seymour, the official with the
International Organization for Migration who made the announcement.

This week, the group spoke of all the things they had been looking forward to in
America: security, freedom, pizza, meat, driving a car and seeing buildings made
not of sticks, but of ''mirrors and stone,'' as one man put it.

''I was even looking forward to paying taxes,'' Mr. Hassan said. ''If you pay
taxes, that means you have a job and you're making money, right?''




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/02/world/africa/trump-refugee
-ban-somalia.html

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ismail Ali Ibrahim, above left, and Salad Rage Saleh are among
more than 100 Somali refugees who were ready to resettle in the United States
but are now marooned in a transit center in Nairobi, right. There's little to do
there but play table soccer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SVEN TORFINN FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                              Siasat Daily (India)

                            February 3, 2017 Friday

Angelina Jolie trashes Trump's immigration ban in op-ed

LENGTH: 453 words

DATELINE: New York


New York, Feb. 3 -- Saying she was proud of "our country's history of giving
shelter to the most vulnerable people", Hollywood actress Angelina Jolie has
said in an op-ed that Americans have "shed blood" for the cause of human rights
- a direct attack on President Donald Trump's controversial immigration ban.

In an opinion piece to the New York Times on Thursday, the actress who is also a
special envoy to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, said: "Americans have
shed blood to defend the idea that human rights transcend culture, geography,
ethnicity and religion."

"The decision to suspend the resettlement of refugees to the US and deny entry
to citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries has been met with shock by our
friends around the world precisely because of this record."

Trump on January 27 temporarily banned citizens and refugees from Syria, Iran,
Iraq, Libya, Sudan, Somalia and Yemen to enter the US for a period of 90 days
resulting in widepread condemnation and protests across the world.

"As the mother of six children, I very much want our country to be safe for
them, and all our nation's children. But I also want to know that refugee
children who qualify for asylum will always have a chance to plead their case to
a compassionate America," the 41-year-old Jolie wrote.

Jolie adopted three of her children - Maddox Chivan , Pax Thien, Zahara Marley -
from Cambodia, Vietnam and Ethiopia, respectively.

"We can manage our security without writing off citizens of entire countries -
even babies - as unsafe to visit our country by virtue of geography or
religion," she wrote.

Jolie went on to say: "It is simply not true that our borders are overrun or
that refugees are admitted to the United States without close scrutiny."

The actress also pointed out that only less than 1 per cent - of all refugees in
the world are ever resettled in the US.

According to Jolie, this is the worst refugee crisis since World War II.

"There are countries in Africa and the Middle East bursting at the seams with
refugees."

"'America is committed to the world because so much of the world is inside
America,' in the words of (former US President) Ronald Reagan," Jolie wrote.

Jolie concluded by saying: "We all want to keep our country safe. So we must
look to the sources of the terrorist threat.We have to make common cause with
people of all faiths and backgrounds fighting the same threat and seeking the
same security."

"This is where I would hope any president of our great nation would lead on
behalf of all Americans."

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Siasat Daily. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2017 The Siasat.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The Baltimore Sun

                           February 2, 2017 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Trump order affects program for Central American children

BYLINE: Kate Linthicum

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 636  words



HIGHLIGHT: Advocates say children who have applied for the Central America
refugee program pose no danger to the U.S.John Moore/Getty


MEXICO CITY - President Donald Trump's executive order on immigration has halted
a government program that allows Central American children to seek refugee
status in the United States.

More than 11,000 people have applied for the program since 2014, when former
President Barack Obama launched it in an attempt to dissuade Central Americans
fleeing violence from making risky journeys to the U.S. border.

The program, which is available only to children who have a parent and in some
cases an adult relative who is residing in the U.S. legally, screens applicants
in their home countries. Since the effort was launched, more than 2,000 people
have been resettled in the U.S., either as refugees or through a process known
as humanitarian parole, according to the State Department.

Trump's executive order, which he signed Friday, called for the immediate
suspension of all refugee admissions to the U.S. for 120 days. Although the
change affects greater numbers of migrants fleeing war-torn regions of Africa,
Asia and the Middle East, advocates say the order could have dangerous
consequences for children and their families in countries such as El Salvador
and Honduras.

"This program was an important recognition of the very real violence in these
countries," said Maureen Meyer, who advocates for migrant rights with the
nonprofit Washington Office on Latin America. "Clearly the suspension of this
program puts these children at more risk. A lot of people that are in danger
could be killed."

Trump characterized his immigration order, which also banned travel to the U.S.
from seven predominantly Muslim countries, as a measure that would "make America
safe again" by protecting the U.S. from foreign threats.

But advocates say the children who have applied for the Central America refugee
program pose no danger to the U.S. and would be allowed in the country only
after careful screening by the Department of Homeland Security. "The child has
to go through a very extensive security vetting," said Wendy Young, president of
Kids in Need of Defense, a nonprofit organization that advocates for immigrant
children. "Refugees are the most vetted immigrants in the country."

The program came into being in 2014, a year that saw record numbers of Central
Americans asking for asylum at the U.S. border. Many of them traveled without
guardians, often in the company of human traffickers. Many of the children said
they were fleeing violence and forced gang recruitment in El Salvador, Honduras
and Guatemala.

Obama enacted several measures to slow the migration. He asked Congress to
earmark money to help improve economic and security conditions in Central
America, and he enlisted Mexico to dramatically step up deportations along its
southern border.

The Central American Minors Program allowed young people to apply for refugee
status from their home country. Those who faced the biggest threats were allowed
to go to Costa Rica, a safer country, as they waited to find out whether their
application would be approved.

In 2016, the Obama administration expanded the program slightly to allow adult
family members of the children to apply for refugee status as well.

A spokesman for the  State Department, which administers the program, did not
say how many people were affected by the executive order or whether any Central
Americans have been granted exemptions to the order and allowed to enter the
U.S.

Jaime Rivas Castillo, a professor at Don Bosco University in El Salvador, said
the suspension of the refugee program means some young migrants may look for
other options to leave the country.

Some, he said, may seek asylum in nearby countries such as Mexico or Panama.
Others, he said, may still risk the 2,000-mile journey to the U.S. border and
try to enter illegally rather than seek asylum.

kate.linthicum@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2017 The Baltimore Sun Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     February 2, 2017 Thursday 10:30 PM GMT

Angelina Jolie urges politicians to rethink U.S. immigration ban

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 316 words


The special envoy of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees accuses
Donald Trump of acting out of fear.

Angelina Jolie has taken U.S. leader Donald Trump to task over his controversial
executive order aimed at keeping refugees out of America.

In a passionate piece published in The New York Times, the special envoy of the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees insists the President's new
immigration ban is a big mistake.

"Refugees are men, women and children caught in the fury of war, or the cross
hairs of persecution. Far from being terrorists, they are often the victims of
terrorism themselves," the 41-year-old actress writes.

"The global refugee crisis and the threat from terrorism make it entirely
justifiable that we consider how best to secure our borders. Every government
must balance the needs of its citizens with its international responsibilities.
But our response must be measured and should be based on facts, not fear."

"As the mother of six children, who were all born in foreign lands and are proud
American citizens, I very much want our country to be safe for them, and all our
nation's children," she added, "but I also want to know that refugee children
who qualify for asylum will always have a chance to plead their case to a
compassionate America - and that we can manage our security without writing off
citizens of entire countries... as unsafe to visit our country by virtue of
geography or religion."

Trump's executive order, signed on Friday (27Jan17), led to chaos at
international airports as people flying to the U.S. from Iraq, Iran, Syria and
four other nations in Africa and the Middle East were refused entry to America.

"Shutting our door to refugees or discriminating among them is not our way, and
does not make us safer," Jolie continued. "Acting out of fear is not our way.
Targeting the weakest does not show strength."

© Cover Media

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2017 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      February 2, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

For Stranded Somali Refugees, 'Friend of America' Is a Deadly Label

BYLINE: JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

SECTION: WORLD; africa

LENGTH: 1254 words



HIGHLIGHT: After waiting years to come to the United States, displaced refugees
fear returning to extreme poverty and reprisal from anti-American militant
groups.


NAIROBI, Kenya -- Ismail Ali Ibrahim gave away everything he owned: his bed, his
sheets, his shirts, his pots, his pans, his plates, even his house.

He didn't care. He was going to America.

But this week, he remained 7,000 miles away, marooned with more than 100 other
Somali refugees in a spartan transit center in central Nairobi that smelled of
nervous sweat.

Mr. Ibrahim and many of his displaced comrades had been waiting more than two
decades to be resettled in the United States and were supposed to fly to America
this week. But their hopes were crushed by President Trump's executive order to
freeze the refugee flow into the United States for at least four months.

More than 25,000 refugees from Somalia, one of the poorest, hungriest, war-torn
countries on earth, were in the pipeline to be resettled in the United States.

Mr. Ibrahim was much closer than most -- so close that, with his ticket,
paperwork and bag all zipped up, the thought of it made his voice quiver. He had
waited 26 long years for this, living in a sweltering, crowded, disease-ridden
refugee camp along the Kenya-Somalia border that is the opposite of hope.

Now his worst fears are shaping up. The Somali refugees who had already been
extensively vetted and approved by several American government agencies will
most likely be bused back to the camps. Many said that they feared for their
lives and that their situation was actually worse than it had been before they
came so close to leaving.

"Trump shocked us," Mr. Ibrahim said.

Most of them are now broke, having just two weeks ago given away their worldly
possessions in a spree of happiness to friends less fortunate. But more
worrisome, many refugees said as they gathered under the shade of a mango tree
at the transit center, was the risk that they could be labeled "friends of
America." That's a dangerous tag in a poorly policed refugee camp crawling with
Islamic militants.

"The Shabab will be suspicious of us," said Deck Abdi Korriyow, another refugee,
referring to the militant group that has slaughtered thousands of people across
eastern Africa. "They don't want anyone resettled to the U.S. They'll think
we've been giving information to the Americans."

Several men around him vigorously nodded when he added, "Who knows what will
happen to us next?"

Kenya is home to hundreds of thousands of Somali refugees and many are treated
terribly -- constantly harassed, arrested, often beaten, discriminated against,
kept in large camps or locked in a soccer stadium during police roundups, and
sometimes they have even disappeared. Many Kenyans see Somalia the way much of
the world does: as a terrorist threat.

So the refugees have set their sights on a faraway dream. It's called America.
The United States runs a vigorous resettlement program, taking in thousands of
Somalis each year. Being one of them is like holding a winning lottery ticket
and it generates a lot of envy.

Some of the refugees said another reason they dreaded going back to the camps
was because they knew some of their neighbors would barely be able to contain
their glee that the resettlement had not worked out.

"The people against me will be happy," Mr. Ibrahim said.

The more than 100 approved refugees here are now stuck because they don't have
proper papers to walk the streets of Nairobi. They were supposed to be walking
the streets of Atlanta, Buffalo, Des Moines and St. Louis by now.

They aren't allowed to leave the transit center, which is in Nairobi's old
Indian quarter; it was supposed to be their last stop. The gate here is large
and unmarked. Security is serious; many of the refugees who pass through here
are hunted in their homelands.

On Wednesday, the center was crowded but relatively quiet. The refugees seemed
bored. Somali women in full veils lay on the sidewalk on their backs. Young men
lounged in a row of scratched up chairs and were not even talking to one
another.

When a chestnut-size mango fell from the tree, a little boy pounced on it,
clearly hungry.

The men spoke of "the stress."

"Am I worried?" asked Salad Rage Saleh, thin and antsy. "Ever since I've been
born I've been worried."

American officials did not address the fears of Shabab reprisals directly. One
State Department official said that the government would continue to show
compassion to refugees but that it was also important to protect American
citizens.

Refugee officials said the Shabab fears could be real, but that some refugees
also played up such concerns in an attempt to delay or stop their return to the
camps, which can be depressing on a good day.

Life for many Somali refugees means confronting famine, anarchy, pestilence and
death on a daily basis. Ever since the government collapsed in 1991, Somalia has
been stuck in perpetual crisis.

One set of three brothers at the transit camp fled Somalia after their parents
were killed 25 years ago, trudging across the Kenya border as three lost souls.
For more than a quarter-century, the brothers had been living together in a
small makeshift house in a refugee camp, usually jobless and surviving off the
monthly United Nations rations, which they said had been cut down to seven
pounds of grain, one cup of oil and a bottle capful of salt. The Kenyans have
been threatening to close this camp because of terrorism fears.

The brothers had just cleared the final medical checks to be resettled in Rhode
Island. Ahmed Hassan, the eldest, a quiet man with a red pen in his pocket,
spoke proudly of how in recent days they had been "trained" to wear jackets,
hats and gloves when it was cold.

While some Americans have said in recent days that they oppose Mr. Trump's block
on refugees, others have said it makes them feel safer. Refugee officials in
East Africa have been quick to point out that, in the Somalis' case, these
refugees are among the most vetted people entering the United States.

The resettlement process usually takes four to six years to complete and
involves database checks, fingerprinting, countless forms and hours of
background interviews. The tiny percentage of refugees who make it all the way
through are selected because they are considered the most vulnerable of the
vulnerable.

Most will now return to the same squalid camps where they had been living for
years. Others in the pipeline will be put on what the State Department calls
indefinite hold.

When this was announced at the transit center on Saturday at a meeting in the
yard, several men cried.

"It was pretty shattering for me," said Lori Seymour, the official with the
International Organization for Migration who made the announcement.

This week, the group spoke of all the things they had been looking forward to in
America: security, freedom, pizza, meat, driving a car and seeing buildings made
not of sticks, but of "mirrors and stone," as one man put it.

"I was even looking forward to paying taxes," Mr. Hassan said. "If you pay
taxes, that means you have a job and you're making money, right?"

Follow Jeffrey Gettleman on Twitter @gettleman.

PHOTOS: Ismail Ali Ibrahim, above left, and Salad Rage Saleh are among more than
100 Somali refugees who were ready to resettle in the United States but are now
marooned in a transit center in Nairobi, right. There's little to do there but
play table soccer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SVEN TORFINN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    Full Executive Order Text: Trump's Action Limiting Refugees Into the
          U.S.
     ·    A Bloody Reminder for Somalia: Chaos Is Never Far Away
     ·    Misery Follows as Somalis Try to Flee Hunger
     ·    Somalia's Wars Swell a Refugee Camp in Kenya


LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      February 2, 2017 Thursday 00:00 EST

Angelina Jolie: Refugee Policy Should Be Based on Facts, Not Fear;
Op-Ed Contributor

BYLINE: ANGELINA JOLIE

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1010 words



HIGHLIGHT: When we divide people beyond our borders, we divide ourselves.


Refugees are men, women and children caught in the fury of war, or the cross
hairs of persecution. Far from being terrorists, they are often the victims of
terrorism themselves.

I'm proud of our country's history of giving shelter to the most vulnerable
people. Americans have shed blood to defend the idea that human rights transcend
culture, geography, ethnicity and religion. The decision to suspend the
resettlement of refugees to the United States and deny entry to citizens of
seven Muslim-majority countries has been met with shock by our friends around
the world precisely because of this record.

The global refugee crisis and the threat from terrorism make it entirely
justifiable that we consider how best to secure our borders. Every government
must balance the needs of its citizens with its international responsibilities.
But our response must be measured and should be based on facts, not fear.

As the mother of six children, who were all born in foreign lands and are proud
American citizens, I very much want our country to be safe for them, and all our
nation's children. But I also want to know that refugee children who qualify for
asylum will always have a chance to plead their case to a compassionate America.
And that we can manage our security without writing off citizens of entire
countries -- even babies -- as unsafe to visit our country by virtue of
geography or religion.

It is simply not true that our borders are overrun or that refugees are admitted
to the United States without close scrutiny.

Refugees are in fact subject to the highest level of screening of any category
of traveler to the United States. This includes months of interviews, and
security checks carried out by the F.B.I., the National Counterterrorism Center,
the Department of Homeland Security and the State Department.

Furthermore, only the most vulnerable people are put forward for resettlement in
the first place: survivors of torture, and women and children at risk or who
might not survive without urgent, specialized medical assistance. I have visited
countless camps and cities where hundreds of thousands of refugees are barely
surviving and every family has suffered. When the United Nations Refugee Agency
identifies those among them who are most in need of protection, we can be sure
that they deserve the safety, shelter and fresh start that countries like ours
can offer.

And in fact only a minuscule fraction -- less than 1 percent -- of all refugees
in the world are ever resettled in the United States or any other country. There
are more than 65 million refugees and displaced people worldwide. Nine out of 10
refugees live in poor and middle-income countries, not in rich Western nations.
There are 2.8 million Syrian refugees in Turkey alone. Only about 18,000 Syrians
have been resettled in America since 2011.

This disparity points to another, more sobering reality. If we send a message
that it is acceptable to close the door to refugees, or to discriminate among
them on the basis of religion, we are playing with fire. We are lighting a fuse
that will burn across continents, inviting the very instability we seek to
protect ourselves against.

We are already living through the worst refugee crisis since World War II. There
are countries in Africa and the Middle East bursting at the seams with refugees.
For generations American diplomats have joined the United Nations in urging
those countries to keep their borders open, and to uphold international
standards on the treatment of refugees. Many do just that with exemplary
generosity.

What will be our response if other countries use national security as an excuse
to start turning people away, or deny rights on the basis of religion? What
could this mean for the Rohingya from Myanmar, or for Somali refugees, or
millions of other displaced people who happen to be Muslim? And what does this
do to the absolute prohibition in international law against discrimination on
the grounds of faith or religion?

The truth is that even if the numbers of refugees we take in are small, and we
do the bare minimum, we do it to uphold the United Nations conventions and
standards we fought so hard to build after World War II, for the sake of our own
security.

If we Americans say that these obligations are no longer important, we risk a
free-for-all in which even more refugees are denied a home, guaranteeing more
instability, hatred and violence.

If we create a tier of second-class refugees, implying Muslims are less worthy
of protection, we fuel extremism abroad, and at home we undermine the ideal of
diversity cherished by Democrats and Republicans alike: "America is committed to
the world because so much of the world is inside America," in the words of
Ronald Reagan. If we divide people beyond our borders, we divide ourselves.

The lesson of the years we have spent fighting terrorism since Sept. 11 is that
every time we depart from our values we worsen the very problem we are trying to
contain. We must never allow our values to become the collateral damage of a
search for greater security. Shutting our door to refugees or discriminating
among them is not our way, and does not make us safer. Acting out of fear is not
our way. Targeting the weakest does not show strength.

We all want to keep our country safe. So we must look to the sources of the
terrorist threat -- to the conflicts that give space and oxygen to groups like
the Islamic State, and the despair and lawlessness on which they feed. We have
to make common cause with people of all faiths and backgrounds fighting the same
threat and seeking the same security. This is where I would hope any president
of our great nation would lead on behalf of all Americans.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

Angelina Jolie, a filmmaker, is the special envoy of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees.

DRAWING (DRAWING BY KEITH NEGLEY)

Related Articles


     ·    A New Level of Refugee Suffering
     ·    President Trump, Meet My Family
     ·    Abandoned by America


LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                   The New York Times - International Edition

                           February 2, 2017 Thursday

For Stranded Somali Refugees, 'Friend of America' Is a Deadly Label

BYLINE: JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 1192 words

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya

ABSTRACT

After waiting years to come to the United States, displaced refugees fear
returning to extreme poverty and reprisal from anti-American militant groups.

FULL TEXT

NAIROBI, Kenya - Ismail Ali Ibrahim gave away everything he owned: his bed, his
sheets, his shirts, his pots, his pans, his plates, even his house.

He didn't care. He was going to America.

But this week, he remained 7,000 miles away, marooned with more than 100 other
Somali refugees in a spartan transit center in central Nairobi that smelled of
nervous sweat.

Mr. Ibrahim and many of his displaced comrades had been waiting more than two
decades to be resettled in the United States and were supposed to fly to America
this week. But their hopes were crushed by President Trump's executive order to
freeze the refugee flow into the United States for at least four months.

More than 25,000 refugees from Somalia, one of the poorest, hungriest, war-torn
countries on earth, were in the pipeline to be resettled in the United States.

Mr. Ibrahim was much closer than most - so close that, with his ticket,
paperwork and bag all zipped up, the thought of it made his voice quiver. He had
waited 26 long years for this, living in a sweltering, crowded, disease-ridden
refugee camp along the Kenya-Somalia border that is the opposite of hope.

Now his worst fears are shaping up. The Somali refugees who had already been
extensively vetted and approved by several American government agencies will
most likely be bused back to the camps. Many said that they feared for their
lives and that their situation was actually worse than it had been before they
came so close to leaving.

"Trump shocked us," Mr. Ibrahim said.

Most of them are now broke, having just two weeks ago given away their worldly
possessions in a spree of happiness to friends less fortunate. But more
worrisome, many refugees said as they gathered under the shade of a mango tree
at the transit center, was the risk that they could be labeled "friends of
America." That's a dangerous tag in a poorly policed refugee camp crawling with
Islamic militants.

"The Shabab will be suspicious of us," said Deck Abdi Korriyow, another refugee,
referring to the militant group that has slaughtered thousands of people across
eastern Africa. "They don't want anyone resettled to the U.S. They'll think
we've been giving information to the Americans."

Several men around him vigorously nodded when he added, "Who knows what will
happen to us next?"

Kenya is home to hundreds of thousands of Somali refugees and many are treated
terribly - constantly harassed, arrested, often beaten, discriminated against,
kept in large camps or locked in a soccer stadium during police roundups, and
sometimes they have even disappeared. Many Kenyans see Somalia the way much of
the world does: as a terrorist threat.

So the refugees have set their sights on a faraway dream. It's called America.
The United States runs a vigorous resettlement program, taking in thousands of
Somalis each year. Being one of them is like holding a winning lottery ticket
and it generates a lot of envy.

Some of the refugees said another reason they dreaded going back to the camps
was because they knew some of their neighbors would barely be able to contain
their glee that the resettlement had not worked out.

"The people against me will be happy," Mr. Ibrahim said.

The more than 100 approved refugees here are now stuck because they don't have
proper papers to walk the streets of Nairobi. They were supposed to be walking
the streets of Atlanta, Buffalo, Des Moines and St. Louis by now.

They aren't allowed to leave the transit center, which is in Nairobi's old
Indian quarter; it was supposed to be their last stop. The gate here is large
and unmarked. Security is serious; many of the refugees who pass through here
are hunted in their homelands.

On Wednesday, the center was crowded but relatively quiet. The refugees seemed
bored. Somali women in full veils lay on the sidewalk on their backs. Young men
lounged in a row of scratched up chairs and were not even talking to one
another.

When a chestnut-size mango fell from the tree, a little boy pounced on it,
clearly hungry.

The men spoke of "the stress."

"Am I worried?" asked Salad Rage Saleh, thin and antsy. "Ever since I've been
born I've been worried."

American officials did not address the fears of Shabab reprisals directly. One
State Department official said that the government would continue to show
compassion to refugees but that it was also important to protect American
citizens.

Refugee officials said the Shabab fears could be real, but that some refugees
also played up such concerns in an attempt to delay or stop their return to the
camps, which can be depressing on a good day.

Life for many Somali refugees means confronting famine, anarchy, pestilence and
death on a daily basis. Ever since the government collapsed in 1991, Somalia has
been stuck in perpetual crisis.

One set of three brothers at the transit camp fled Somalia after their parents
were killed 25 years ago, trudging across the Kenya border as three lost souls.
For more than a quarter-century, the brothers had been living together in a
small makeshift house in a refugee camp, usually jobless and surviving off the
monthly United Nations rations, which they said had been cut down to seven
pounds of grain, one cup of oil and a bottle capful of salt. The Kenyans have
been threatening to close this camp because of terrorism fears.

The brothers had just cleared the final medical checks to be resettled in Rhode
Island. Ahmed Hassan, the eldest, a quiet man with a red pen in his pocket,
spoke proudly of how in recent days they had been "trained" to wear jackets,
hats and gloves when it was cold.

While some Americans have said in recent days that they oppose Mr. Trump's block
on refugees, others have said it makes them feel safer. Refugee officials in
East Africa have been quick to point out that, in the Somalis' case, these
refugees are among the most vetted people entering the United States.

The resettlement process usually takes four to six years to complete and
involves database checks, fingerprinting, countless forms and hours of
background interviews. The tiny percentage of refugees who make it all the way
through are selected because they are considered the most vulnerable of the
vulnerable.

Most will now return to the same squalid camps where they had been living for
years. Others in the pipeline will be put on what the State Department calls
indefinite hold.

When this was announced at the transit center on Saturday at a meeting in the
yard, several men cried.

"It was pretty shattering for me," said Lori Seymour, the official with the
International Organization for Migration who made the announcement.

This week, the group spoke of all the things they had been looking forward to in
America: security, freedom, pizza, meat, driving a car and seeing buildings made
not of sticks, but of "mirrors and stone," as one man put it.

"I was even looking forward to paying taxes," Mr. Hassan said. "If you pay
taxes, that means you have a job and you're making money, right?"

Follow Jeffrey Gettleman on Twitter @gettleman.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                   The New York Times - International Edition

                           February 2, 2017 Thursday

Angelina Jolie: Refugee Policy Should Be Based on Facts, Not Fear;
Op-Ed Contributor

BYLINE: ANGELINA JOLIE

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1001 words

ABSTRACT

When we divide people beyond our borders, we divide ourselves.

FULL TEXT

Refugees are men, women and children caught in the fury of war, or the cross
hairs of persecution. Far from being terrorists, they are often the victims of
terrorism themselves.

I'm proud of our country's history of giving shelter to the most vulnerable
people. Americans have shed blood to defend the idea that human rights transcend
culture, geography, ethnicity and religion. The decision to suspend the
resettlement of refugees to the United States and deny entry to citizens of
seven Muslim-majority countries has been met with shock by our friends around
the world precisely because of this record.

The global refugee crisis and the threat from terrorism make it entirely
justifiable that we consider how best to secure our borders. Every government
must balance the needs of its citizens with its international responsibilities.
But our response must be measured and should be based on facts, not fear.

As the mother of six children, who were all born in foreign lands and are proud
American citizens, I very much want our country to be safe for them, and all our
nation's children. But I also want to know that refugee children who qualify for
asylum will always have a chance to plead their case to a compassionate America.
And that we can manage our security without writing off citizens of entire
countries - even babies - as unsafe to visit our country by virtue of geography
or religion.

It is simply not true that our borders are overrun or that refugees are admitted
to the United States without close scrutiny.

Refugees are in fact subject to the highest level of screening of any category
of traveler to the United States. This includes months of interviews, and
security checks carried out by the F.B.I., the National Counterterrorism Center,
the Department of Homeland Security and the State Department.

Furthermore, only the most vulnerable people are put forward for resettlement in
the first place: survivors of torture, and women and children at risk or who
might not survive without urgent, specialized medical assistance. I have visited
countless camps and cities where hundreds of thousands of refugees are barely
surviving and every family has suffered. When the United Nations Refugee Agency
identifies those among them who are most in need of protection, we can be sure
that they deserve the safety, shelter and fresh start that countries like ours
can offer.

And in fact only a minuscule fraction - less than 1 percent - of all refugees in
the world are ever resettled in the United States or any other country. There
are more than 65 million refugees and displaced people worldwide. Nine out of 10
refugees live in poor and middle-income countries, not in rich Western nations.
There are 2.8 million Syrian refugees in Turkey alone. Only about 18,000 Syrians
have been resettled in America since 2011.

This disparity points to another, more sobering reality. If we send a message
that it is acceptable to close the door to refugees, or to discriminate among
them on the basis of religion, we are playing with fire. We are lighting a fuse
that will burn across continents, inviting the very instability we seek to
protect ourselves against.

We are already living through the worst refugee crisis since World War II. There
are countries in Africa and the Middle East bursting at the seams with refugees.
For generations American diplomats have joined the United Nations in urging
those countries to keep their borders open, and to uphold international
standards on the treatment of refugees. Many do just that with exemplary
generosity.

What will be our response if other countries use national security as an excuse
to start turning people away, or deny rights on the basis of religion? What
could this mean for the Rohingya from Myanmar, or for Somali refugees, or
millions of other displaced people who happen to be Muslim? And what does this
do to the absolute prohibition in international law against discrimination on
the grounds of faith or religion?

The truth is that even if the numbers of refugees we take in are small, and we
do the bare minimum, we do it to uphold the United Nations conventions and
standards we fought so hard to build after World War II, for the sake of our own
security.

If we Americans say that these obligations are no longer important, we risk a
free-for-all in which even more refugees are denied a home, guaranteeing more
instability, hatred and violence.

If we create a tier of second-class refugees, implying Muslims are less worthy
of protection, we fuel extremism abroad, and at home we undermine the ideal of
diversity cherished by Democrats and Republicans alike: "America is committed to
the world because so much of the world is inside America," in the words of
Ronald Reagan. If we divide people beyond our borders, we divide ourselves.

The lesson of the years we have spent fighting terrorism since Sept. 11 is that
every time we depart from our values we worsen the very problem we are trying to
contain. We must never allow our values to become the collateral damage of a
search for greater security. Shutting our door to refugees or discriminating
among them is not our way, and does not make us safer. Acting out of fear is not
our way. Targeting the weakest does not show strength.

We all want to keep our country safe. So we must look to the sources of the
terrorist threat - to the conflicts that give space and oxygen to groups like
the Islamic State, and the despair and lawlessness on which they feed. We have
to make common cause with people of all faiths and backgrounds fighting the same
threat and seeking the same security. This is where I would hope any president
of our great nation would lead on behalf of all Americans.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

Angelina Jolie, a filmmaker, is the special envoy of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                           February 2, 2017 Thursday
                                  WEB Edition

The lucky ones: African family lands in Philly as door closes to refugees

SECTION: WEB; PC News Pennsylvania; Pg. WEB

LENGTH: 940 words


After six years in a 5,000-person camp of plastic-sheet tents in western Ghana,
50-year-old widow Giselle Angama, her three daughters, and a baby granddaughter
shook off the chill of their midnight arrival in Philadelphia on Wednesday.

Certified by the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees as ";survivors of violence
and torture,"; the family landed in America less than 36 hours before President
Trump's four-month suspension of refugee admissions was to take effect.

In March 2011, they had fled a bloody civil war in their native Ivory Coast,
where shelling and heavy fighting had killed thousands. Four months later, they
registered for certification as refugees. Then, in a transient settlement
teeming with the displaced, they waited and waited.

Now, they were the lucky ones, having narrowly gotten through a rapidly closing
door to a new life. Like 870 other refugees deemed ";in transit"; to the United
States this week by the Department of Homeland Security, they were allowed in
because a denial would have been an ";undue hardship."; The Angamas were among
at least 15 who got in under the wire for resettlement in the Philadelphia area.

Unsteady in English and weary after a long day of travel from Africa, Angama
reached for words to express her feelings as her family sorted its luggage.

She hesitated, smiled, and offered a mash-up: ";Je suis content. Happy.";

The family has no personal connection to Philadelphia. They ended up here
because the U.S. Committee for Refugees and Immigrants, which processes cases,
assigned them to the Philadelphia resettlement agency Nationalities Service
Center (NSC) based on the region's capacity to accommodate their language,
dietary, and cultural needs.

Admitted at John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York, the Angamas were
brought here by van and met by Christina Kubica, their NSC caseworker.

Kubica strapped year-old Ellary into a car seat for the short drive from the
pickup point at the Philadelphia International Airport cellphone lot to the
two-bedroom, one-bath Dickinson Street apartment in South Philadelphia set up
for the family by NSC with used furniture, donated housewares, and a rock-hard
package of chicken in the freezer.

As Ellary's mother, Tatiana, 20, was shown how to operate the shower, 9-year-old
Ruth tried out a bed, scampered from room to room, and peered into the mostly
empty fridge. Ruth, 17, bounced Ellary on her knee. The Angama matriarch,
wearing a New York Yankees knit cap and still sporting the International
Organization of Migration identification lanyard worn by refugees in transit,
beamed in this modest apartment, with its real walls.

Under U.S. guidelines, refugees in America get a one-time government subsidy of
$925 per person and are expected to be self-supporting within 90 days. That
means this family of five starts with $4,625, out of which they must pay their
first month's rent and a security deposit, and begin reimbursing the federal
Office of Refugee Resettlement for the cost of their air travel to America. The
Angamas' paperwork does not note any particular job skills.

Their life will be ";far from cushy,"; said Juliane Ramic, NSC's senior director
of refugee and community integration, who also came to the airport to welcome
the family.

Although Trump has presented his refugee ban as a four-month ";pause,"; its
impact will last longer, said Ramic, because for as many as 20,000 people in the
pipeline, the required security and medical clearances could expire during the
hiatus. That will force them to begin the process anew, a delay of possibly two
years. Many will have already sold or given away their belongings.

Looking haggard and near tears Wednesday night, Ramic said she had just
telephoned relatives of 10 refugees scheduled to arrive next week to tell them
their loved ones wouldn't be coming.

Trump's executive order also halves the number of refugees who will be allowed
to enter the U.S. in fiscal 2017 (which began Oct. 1, 2016) from 110,000, as set
by the Obama administration, to a maximum of 50,000.

Nationally, about 33,000 have been admitted since Oct. 1, according to the
Committee for Refugees and Immigrants.

";That leaves room for very few more"; even when the 120-day suspension is
lifted, Ramic said.

Trump has said he wants to slow the flow of foreigners entering the U.S. to
tighten the nation's borders and enhance security.

Skeptics say refugees pose little threat because they are the most rigorously
screened of anyone allowed in.

Correcting a widely held misconception, critics point out that the 9/11
attackers, most of whom came from Saudi Arabia, abused the U.S. visa program but
were not refugees.

In a statement Monday, the United Nations refugee chief, Filippo Grandi, said he
was ";deeply worried"; by the suspension of the U.S. program.

";Refugees share the very same concerns about security and safety that Americans
have. ... They are fleeing war, persecution, oppression, and terrorism,"; he
said. Those accepted for resettlement ";are coming to rebuild their lives in
safety and dignity. UNHCR hopes that they will be able to do so as soon as
possible.";

Before Ramic left the Angamas in the wee hours of Thursday, she lifted the ID
lanyard off Giselle's neck and stashed it in a cupboard.

";You don't have to wear this anymore,"; Ramic said. ";You're home now.";

Dems seek to harness Trump rage in suburban Philly

http://www.philly.com/philly/blogs/big_tent/Dems-seek-to-harness-Trump-rage-in-s
uburban-Philly.html

Hundreds of Comcast workers protest Trump travel ban

http://www.philly.com/philly/wires/ap/news/nation/20170202_ap_8bbb48eef7e7415b89
9d8bd2dc24d3b5.html

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph by: ELIZABETH ROBERTSON / Staff Photographer

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                           February 2, 2017 Thursday
                                  WEB Edition

The lucky ones: African family lands in Philly as door closes to refugees

SECTION: WEB; PC News Pennsylvania; Pg. WEB

LENGTH: 940 words


After six years in a 5,000-person camp of plastic-sheet tents in western Ghana,
50-year-old widow Giselle Angama, her three daughters, and a baby granddaughter
shook off the chill of their midnight arrival in Philadelphia on Wednesday.

Certified by the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees as ";survivors of violence
and torture,"; the family landed in America less than 36 hours before President
Trump's four-month suspension of refugee admissions was to take effect.

In March 2011, they had fled a bloody civil war in their native Ivory Coast,
where shelling and heavy fighting had killed thousands. Four months later, they
registered for certification as refugees. Then, in a transient settlement
teeming with the displaced, they waited and waited.

Now, they were the lucky ones, having narrowly gotten through a rapidly closing
door to a new life. Like 870 other refugees deemed ";in transit"; to the United
States this week by the Department of Homeland Security, they were allowed in
because a denial would have been an ";undue hardship."; The Angamas were among
at least 15 who got in under the wire for resettlement in the Philadelphia area.

Unsteady in English and weary after a long day of travel from Africa, Angama
reached for words to express her feelings as her family sorted its luggage.

She hesitated, smiled, and offered a mash-up: ";Je suis content. Happy.";

The family has no personal connection to Philadelphia. They ended up here
because the U.S. Committee for Refugees and Immigrants, which processes cases,
assigned them to the Philadelphia resettlement agency Nationalities Service
Center (NSC) based on the region's capacity to accommodate their language,
dietary, and cultural needs.

Admitted at John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York, the Angamas were
brought here by van and met by Christina Kubica, their NSC caseworker.

Kubica strapped year-old Ellary into a car seat for the short drive from the
pickup point at the Philadelphia International Airport cellphone lot to the
two-bedroom, one-bath Dickinson Street apartment in South Philadelphia set up
for the family by NSC with used furniture, donated housewares, and a rock-hard
package of chicken in the freezer.

As Ellary's mother, Tatiana, 20, was shown how to operate the shower, 9-year-old
Ruth tried out a bed, scampered from room to room, and peered into the mostly
empty fridge. Ruth, 17, bounced Ellary on her knee. The Angama matriarch,
wearing a New York Yankees knit cap and still sporting the International
Organization of Migration identification lanyard worn by refugees in transit,
beamed in this modest apartment, with its real walls.

Under U.S. guidelines, refugees in America get a one-time government subsidy of
$925 per person and are expected to be self-supporting within 90 days. That
means this family of five starts with $4,625, out of which they must pay their
first month's rent and a security deposit, and begin reimbursing the federal
Office of Refugee Resettlement for the cost of their air travel to America. The
Angamas' paperwork does not note any particular job skills.

Their life will be ";far from cushy,"; said Juliane Ramic, NSC's senior director
of refugee and community integration, who also came to the airport to welcome
the family.

Although Trump has presented his refugee ban as a four-month ";pause,"; its
impact will last longer, said Ramic, because for as many as 20,000 people in the
pipeline, the required security and medical clearances could expire during the
hiatus. That will force them to begin the process anew, a delay of possibly two
years. Many will have already sold or given away their belongings.

Looking haggard and near tears Wednesday night, Ramic said she had just
telephoned relatives of 10 refugees scheduled to arrive next week to tell them
their loved ones wouldn't be coming.

Trump's executive order also halves the number of refugees who will be allowed
to enter the U.S. in fiscal 2017 (which began Oct. 1, 2016) from 110,000, as set
by the Obama administration, to a maximum of 50,000.

Nationally, about 33,000 have been admitted since Oct. 1, according to the
Committee for Refugees and Immigrants.

";That leaves room for very few more"; even when the 120-day suspension is
lifted, Ramic said.

Trump has said he wants to slow the flow of foreigners entering the U.S. to
tighten the nation's borders and enhance security.

Skeptics say refugees pose little threat because they are the most rigorously
screened of anyone allowed in.

Correcting a widely held misconception, critics point out that the 9/11
attackers, most of whom came from Saudi Arabia, abused the U.S. visa program but
were not refugees.

In a statement Monday, the United Nations refugee chief, Filippo Grandi, said he
was ";deeply worried"; by the suspension of the U.S. program.

";Refugees share the very same concerns about security and safety that Americans
have. ... They are fleeing war, persecution, oppression, and terrorism,"; he
said. Those accepted for resettlement ";are coming to rebuild their lives in
safety and dignity. UNHCR hopes that they will be able to do so as soon as
possible.";

Before Ramic left the Angamas in the wee hours of Thursday, she lifted the ID
lanyard off Giselle's neck and stashed it in a cupboard.

";You don't have to wear this anymore,"; Ramic said. ";You're home now.";

Dems seek to harness Trump rage in suburban Philly

http://www.philly.com/philly/blogs/big_tent/Dems-seek-to-harness-Trump-rage-in-s
uburban-Philly.html

Hundreds of Comcast workers protest Trump travel ban

http://www.philly.com/philly/wires/ap/news/nation/20170202_ap_8bbb48eef7e7415b89
9d8bd2dc24d3b5.html

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph by: ELIZABETH ROBERTSON / Staff Photographer

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                          Intellinews - MENA This Week

                                February 1, 2017

Refugees from MENA countries promote populists and autocrats in Western
democracies, says Freedom House

LENGTH: 417  words


Freedom House labeled the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region the worst
regional bloc in terms of human freedoms in the world in 2016 in its annual
"Freedom in the World" report.

Three countries from the MENA region made it to a shortlist of the 11 Worst of
the Worst offenders of civil liberties among 49 countries marked as Not Free
topped by Syria, with Sudan and Saudi Arabia not falling far behind. Although
most countries in the MENA region did not fair much better, Morocco, Jordan and
Lebanon manage to make it to the list of Partially Free countries, with only
Tunisia and Israel having the honour of making it to the list of Free countries.

The blowback effect from the Syrian conflict was noted in the report in terms of
the arrival of large numbers of Syrian refugees, mostly to Europe and North
America, changing the political discourse in favour of populists and
authoritarian forces in countries labeled as Free. "The enormous refugee flows
and  Islamic State-inspired terrorism generated by the Syrian conflict have
played an important role in the weakening of democratic standards in Europe and
the United States," the report noted.

The report also warned against the misplaced allure of a strongmen like Egyptian
President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi held up by some democratic politicians in the
West as a promising partner in the fight against Islamist terrorism, pointing
out that a ruthless crackdown on an armed insurgency led by the IS militant
group in the Sinai Peninsula failed to quell the insurgency, while the ongoing
violence and political repression of Islamist supporters of former president
Mohamed Morsi crippled the vital tourism industry causing widespread economic
hardship.

Elsewhere in the region, the ongoing civil war in Libya resulting in insecurity
and widespread impunity dimmed the prospects for improvement in the humanitarian
situation and conditions for human rights in the country. The conflict in Yemen
effectively divided the country between the two warring factions with neither
making any effort towards reestablishing past political pluralism, effectively
suspending civil liberties and eliminating media independence.

Offering a glimmer of hope, Iraq was included among the shortlist of countries
to watch over the coming year. As the weak and fragmented government in Baghdad
regains territory from IS militants, the report sees an opportunity to
reintegrate the Sunni minority population in the national system and contain the
power of Shiite militias.


LOAD-DATE: February 03, 2017

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2017 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                            Intellinews - MENA Today

                           February 1, 2017 Wednesday

Refugees from MENA countries promote populists and autocrats in Western
democracies, says Freedom House

LENGTH: 417  words


Freedom House labeled the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region the worst
regional bloc in terms of human freedoms in the world in 2016 in its annual
"Freedom in the World" report.

Three countries from the MENA region made it to a shortlist of the 11 Worst of
the Worst offenders of civil liberties among 49 countries marked as Not Free
topped by Syria, with Sudan and Saudi Arabia not falling far behind. Although
most countries in the MENA region did not fair much better, Morocco, Jordan and
Lebanon manage to make it to the list of Partially Free countries, with only
Tunisia and Israel having the honour of making it to the list of Free countries.

The blowback effect from the Syrian conflict was noted in the report in terms of
the arrival of large numbers of Syrian refugees, mostly to Europe and North
America, changing the political discourse in favour of populists and
authoritarian forces in countries labeled as Free. "The enormous refugee flows
and  Islamic State-inspired terrorism generated by the Syrian conflict have
played an important role in the weakening of democratic standards in Europe and
the United States," the report noted.

The report also warned against the misplaced allure of a strongmen like Egyptian
President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi held up by some democratic politicians in the
West as a promising partner in the fight against Islamist terrorism, pointing
out that a ruthless crackdown on an armed insurgency led by the IS militant
group in the Sinai Peninsula failed to quell the insurgency, while the ongoing
violence and political repression of Islamist supporters of former president
Mohamed Morsi crippled the vital tourism industry causing widespread economic
hardship.

Elsewhere in the region, the ongoing civil war in Libya resulting in insecurity
and widespread impunity dimmed the prospects for improvement in the humanitarian
situation and conditions for human rights in the country. The conflict in Yemen
effectively divided the country between the two warring factions with neither
making any effort towards reestablishing past political pluralism, effectively
suspending civil liberties and eliminating media independence.

Offering a glimmer of hope, Iraq was included among the shortlist of countries
to watch over the coming year. As the weak and fragmented government in Baghdad
regains territory from IS militants, the report sees an opportunity to
reintegrate the Sunni minority population in the national system and contain the
power of Shiite militias.


LOAD-DATE: February 01, 2017

LANGUAGE: English

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2017 Emerging Markets Direct Media Holdings LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                   Pioneer Press Newspapers, Suburban Chicago

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           February 1, 2017 Wednesday

Refugees, agencies relay impact of new immigration restrictions

BYLINE: Mike Isaacs, Pioneer Press Newspapers, Suburban Chicago

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 754 words


Feb. 01--Recently-arrived refugees, some who said they are separated from loved
ones they were expecting would join them in the U.S. , spoke Tuesday about the
hardship President Donald Trump's new immigration restrictions have placed on
their families.

Refugees and their sponsors gathered at a multi-agency press conference in
Chicago that was hosted by RefugeeOne, a nonprofit resettlement agency.

Syrian, Ethiopian, Iraqi, Pan-African, Syrian and other agencies were among the
sponsors.

Fatima Birkdar of Skokie, a Syrian refugee, said she has been in this country
for about 40 days with her two daughters and granddaughter and is still waiting
for her son-in-law to arrive. He decided against leaving in December so he could
finish up his studies to become a doctor before traveling here, she said.

But when Trump signed his executive order Jan. 27 stopping refugee settlement
for 120 days and banning Syrian refugees indefinitely, it made the future
uncertain, she said.

"He is worried very much now about his family's future because (he planned) to
see his wife and his daughter and live with us again," Birkdar said.

Refugees, agency representatives and others provided similar accounts, not only
of separated families but of families who had spent years preparing to immigrate
and will, for now, not be able to do so.

RefugeeOne, which says it has helped more than 16,000 refugees fleeing many
world crises, said its agency alone has pending cases for 307 refugees. Those
refugees have been "fully vetted and were simply awaiting their final travel
arrangements," the agency said.

"We are devastated by the executive order that was signed Friday afternoon,"
RefugeeOne Executive Director Melineh Kano said. "This executive order affects
and impacts the lives of millions of people."

According to Kano, the 300-plus refugees whose cases are pending with her
organization have fled 16 countries in Asia, Latin America, the former Soviet
Union, Africa and the Middle East.

"They are now left in limbo, facing uncertainty and fearing their hope of
rebuilding their lives in America has been shattered," she said.

Kano said many of them have given up "their tents and their huts and their
homes" before traveling many hours to reach an airport.

"Now, they don't know what's next for them or if U.S. resettlement is ever going
to be an option," she said.

In November, Alisa Wartick joined with 37 neighborhood moms to help RefugeeOne
resettle a refugee family through the agency's sponsorship program, she said.

"We had no connection other than the desire to help a family become part of our
community," Wartick said. "We didn't know who this family would be or where this
family would come from."

The family turned out to be a young married couple with an infant daughter from
the Syrian city of Aleppo and were scheduled to arrive Jan. 30, she said.

"They both hold university degrees and lived a middle class life until they were
forced to flee their homes in 2013," Wartick said.

She said the wife's parents and siblings had already relocated to the United
States this past fall, and only "a processing error" kept the other three from
joining them.

"We learned Friday evening that the executive order signed that afternoon would
prevent this family from being reunited," said Wartick. "As a group, we were
devastated, but we could not even imagine what this entire family must be
feeling right now."

Khaled Haj Khalaf, the wife's father, spoke Tuesday through an interpreter. He
said the entire family was happy and excited when they first learned they had
the opportunity to come to the United States.

"This was the land of freedom, the land of democracy," he said.

According to Khalaf, his daughter is currently living in a hotel in Istanbul.

Kano called the U.S. refugee program "a humanitarian program and not one of
discrimination."

"Nations are judged by how they treat the most vulnerable -- the widow, the
orphan and the refugee," she said.

Birkdar said she doesn't understand the justification for the indefinite ban on
immigration from Syria where she said people so desperately need refuge.

"We come here because we are looking for peace, which we missed in our country,"
she said. "We are Muslims, we are not terrorists. We come here to continue our
lives -- to study, to work, to support, to contribute to the people in this
country."

___ (c)2017 Pioneer Press Newspapers (Suburban Chicago, Ill.) Visit Pioneer
Press Newspapers (Suburban Chicago, Ill.) at www.chicagotribune.com/suburbs
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170201-PIO-Refugees
-agencies-relay-impact-of-new-immigration-restrictions-0201-20170201

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PIO


                          Copyright 2017 Pioneer Press


                              202 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                 Cold Lake Sun

                            January 31, 2017 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Edmonton Muslims stands against U.S. executive order banning immigration

BYLINE: Catherine Griwkowsky, Postmedia Network

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A40

LENGTH: 493  words


A U.S. ban on immigrants and refugees from predominantly Muslim countries is
everyone's problem.

That's the message from Aurangzed Qureshi, spokesman for the Alberta Muslim
Public Affairs Council. He said he has seen support from Edmonton and Alberta
already.

"We can stand up for each other, we can continue to fight for each other," he
said. "It's not just about Muslims, it's about humanity.

It's about acting locally and thinking globally."

U.S. President Donald Trump signed an executive order on Friday that included a
90-day travel ban to the U.S. by citizens of Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya,
Somalia or Yemen.

There is also a 120-day suspension to the U.S. refugee program. The president
said the ban was necessary to stop "radical Islamic terrorists," the Associated
Press reported.

On Saturday evening, a temporary, partial stay filed by the American Civil
Liberties Union was granted by a federal judge in Brooklyn, barring the U.S.
from deporting travelers with valid visas. The stay does not say they need to be
admitted to the country.

Following the executive order, several people were detained in U.S. airports,
including Hameed Khalid Darweesh, a translator and assistant for the U.S.
military in Iraq for 10 years now fleeing death threats over his U.S. ties.

"It's a troubling concept that his can happen in this day and age," Quershi
said. "It's 2017 and people have been banned from entering the United States
based on their faith."

Qureshi called the democratic deficit an attack on the bedrock of what makes
America successful and he predicts blow back from terrorist organizations.

Qureshi said actions like the ban from the president legitimize and justifies
bigotry, racism and Islamaphobia --previously considered universally wrong.

The move will help Daesh recruit fighters against the West, Qureshi said.

"(Terrorists) don't want co-existence," Qureshi said.

The ban on Muslims from North Africa and the Middle East also perpetuates the
narrative that Muslims from North Africa and the Middle East are a monolithic
entity that must be kept at bay.

"It's a sad day in America," Qureshi said.

The fallout from a legal perspective and an activist perspective remains to be
seen, he said, adding the province and Edmonton are tolerant. He said there was
anti-Muslim sentiment and race-baiting in the Canadian federal election, which
was rejected.

"We've had a lot of messages of support sent to us, churches writing to us," he
said.

Each time a similar incident has happened including turning away of Sikhs on the
Komagata Maru ship in 1914, the denial of Jewish refugees during the holocaust,
or Japanese internment camps, Canadians have looked back with regret, but it
continues to happen.

"We've seen what's happened throughout history to a number of groups, faiths in
the past," Quershi said.

Former Minister of Citizenship, Immigration and Multiculturalism and current PC
leadership candidate Jason Kenney wrote a Twitter essay on the decision.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2017 Cold Lake Sun
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          Cornwall Standard Freeholder

                            January 31, 2017 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Closer to home

BYLINE: Franklin Thompson, Cornwall Standard Freeholder

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 363  words

DATELINE: CORNWALL


I do not agree with President Trump's initial policy statements which are
retrogressive to the fields of science, environment, health, education and
women's rights to abortion.

However, I do agree with his idea to halt immigration from problematic Muslim
countries in the Middle East and east Africa where there are a large number of
ISIS supporters and radical Islamic extremists.

Germany made a big mistake by letting in over 100,000 refugees from Syria. A
certain percentage of these people are barbarians, i.e. Islamic extremists who
since coming into Germany as so-called refugees from Syria have raped German
women and carried out crimes of theft.

The radical Islamists do not consider it a crime, but an honour to rape, steal
from or murder the infidel who does not subscribe to their warped and sick
beliefs. Infidels are considered to be liberal or secular Muslims (considered
apostate) as well as all other religions or non-believers.

The Shia Muslims of Iran are also considered apostate by the radical Sunni
Muslims (ISIS, Al Qaeda) who have a Wahabbi origin from Saudi Arabia.

I think Muslim refugees from Syria should remain in middle eastern countries
like Turkey, Egypt, Iraq, Iran, Pakistan and especially Saudi Arabia, which is
the wealthiest country, to support the Sunni refugees.

The Saudis have taken in very few of the Syrian refugees. This makes no sense.
The immigration of Syrian refugees would only be for the short term. Once the
war in Syria is over, they can return to Syria after the rebuilding of their new
homes is done, hopefully under the control of the United Nations where funds can
come from around the world for rebuilding Syria.

It would be better for western countries in Europe or North America to sponsor
and send money to the Muslim refugees whether from Syria, Somalia, Libya, etc.
to neighboring Muslim countries where the refugees would feel more at home until
they could return to Syria when the war is over and the nation is rebuilt.

I think this makes more sense than having a large wave of Muslim refugees
immigrating to Canada, the U.S. and Europe.

Franklin Thompson

Cornwall !@COPYRIGHT=© 2017 Osprey Media Group Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 Cornwall Standard Freeholder
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 31, 2017 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Delay could be deadly for ailing African children Refugee ban may be deadly for
sick African children

BYLINE: Kevin Sieff

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 923 words

DATELINE: DADAAB REFUGEE CAMP, KENYA


For tiny cancer patient and others, order puts treatment out of reach

DADAAB REFUGEE CAMP, Kenya - They were deemed the most vulnerable cases:
refugees suffering from medical conditions so severe that normally their
journeys to the United States would be expedited.

One is a 9-year-old Somali child in Ethiopia with a congenital heart disease
that cannot be treated in a refugee camp. Another is a 1-year-old Sudanese boy
with cancer. A third is a Somali boy with a severe intestinal disorder living in
a camp that doesn't even have the colostomy bags he needs.

After President Trump's executive order last week, their resettlement in America
was put on hold. Now, the organization responsible for processing refugees in
sub-Saharan Africa, Church World Service, says that order could be their death
sentence.

The organization compiled an internal list of some of its most desperate cases,
and it is urging the U.S. government to lift the suspension.  "When you're
talking about a 9-year-old with congenital heart problems, a [delay of a] day is
too long," said Sarah Krause, the senior director of Church World Service's
immigration and refugee program. "It is unnecessary for these individuals to die
while waiting for resettlement."

The Office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees said Monday that 20,000
people in precarious conditions would be banned from traveling to the United
States under the 120-day suspension on refugee admissions that was announced
Friday.

The Trump administration said it stopped accepting refugees temporarily to study
ways to ensure that the new arrivals don't pose a threat to the United States.

But the U.N. agency noted that the refugees it referred to the U.S. government
for resettlement are highly vulnerable - including people in need of urgent
medical assistance  or survivors of torture.

About 80,000 people in sub-Saharan Africa are at some stage of the U.S. refugee
process, which can take years to complete. Of those, about 2,000 are deemed
"most vulnerable," because of urgent medical problems or "extreme protection
concerns" such as worries about their safety or well-being, according to Church
World Service, which represents dozens of Protestant, Anglican and Orthodox
religious communities and also works with refugee resettlement offices across
the United States.

Its list offers a glimpse into the human lives affected by the executive order.

In addition to people with medical conditions, the list includes refugees who
have endured horrifying cases of physical and psychological trauma. One is a
young Somali woman who was raped multiple times by assailants. She is now living
in a safe house in a neighboring country with a child who was conceived in one
of those assaults, Krause said.

Many of the people on the  list were days or weeks away from traveling to the
United States. Some had already been through a cultural orientation program,
which teaches refugees what to expect in America - like how to use public
transportation and how to apply for a job. They had passed numerous interviews
and security screenings.

"These are already the most thoroughly vetted of any individuals entering the
United States," Krause said.

One 38-year-old Somali woman that Church World Service added to its list is
waiting at a small refugee transit center in Nairobi. Her name is Momina Hassan
Aden. She had recently had a blood transfusion and was raising seven children
alone, after her husband died last year.

She remained fragile, said other refugees, who did not know the details of her
medical condition. She had spent the last four years at the Kakuma Refugee Camp,
a sprawling facility in northwestern Kenya that is home to more than 150,000
people.

"There's not enough health care for me there," Aden said in a brief interview at
the Nairobi transit center. She sat on the ground, surrounded by her children,
who range in age from 1 to 12.

"We're so worried about her," said Mohammed Abdi, another refugee at the center.

Refugees like Aden are in a new kind of purgatory. They have already given up
their tents and humanitarian supplies, because they assumed they would be
traveling to the United States. Now, the same buses that brought them from their
refugee camps might end up taking them back.

They would be treated as new arrivals - often sent to crammed communal tents,
waiting all over again to receive a card that entitles them to food rations. In
Kakuma,  those rations were halved in December, as humanitarian organizations
ran low on money as they struggled to respond to the global refugee crisis.

Because many of the refugees' U.S. clearances will expire during the 120-day
suspension, it could take them "months or even years to get to complete the
process again," Krause said.

Refugee organizations are frantically trying to find ways to save the lives of
those who could suffer serious health problems or even die while waiting for the
suspension to end. One possibility discussed was redirecting urgent cases from
the United States to other countries.

The U.S. executive order allows the secretaries of state and homeland security
to admit individuals as refugees on a case-by-case basis "in the national
interest," but it is not yet clear whether that would help the individuals on
the Church World Service list. A call to the State Department for comment was
not immediately returned on Monday.

Krause was distraught as she described her worries about the refugees.

"I don't how else to take this but as a personal failure," she said, choking up.

kevin.sieff@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Messenger

                            January 30, 2017 Monday

Trump On Refugees Play Havoc

SECTION: Vol. 09 No. 30

LENGTH: 1649  words


President Trump's executive order suspending the entire resettlement  program
for 120 days and banning indefinitely the arrival of Syrian  refugees is a
repudiation of fundamental American values, an abandonment of the United States'
role as a humanitarian leader and,  far from protecting the country from
extremism, a propaganda gift to  those who would plot harm to America.

So aptly says David Miliband, the former British foreign secretary,  who is also
the president and chief executive of the International  Rescue Committee, a
humanitarian aid organization.  Media feels a review is needed by American
lawyers with majority's  collective decision to revise the order positively. The
ban mostly  negatively affects Muslims from half a dozen countries but may later
include many other of the 50 plus Muslim countries all over the world.

The order also cuts the number of refugees scheduled for resettlement  in the
United States in the fiscal  year 2017 from a planned total of  about 110,000 to
just 50,000. Founded on the myth that there is no

proper security screening for refugees, the order thus thrusts into  limbo an
estimated 60,000 vulnerable refugees, most of whom have  already been vetted and
cleared for resettlement here. The new policy  urgently needs rethinking.

The British statesman's words carry more weight now than ever and all
stakeholders need to be apprised of it:   Refugees coming to the United States
are fleeing the same violent  extremism that this country and its allies are
fighting in the Middle  East and elsewhere. Based on recent data, a majority of
those selected  for resettlement in America are women and children.

There are also thousands of Afghans and Iraqis whose lives are at risk  because
of assistance they offered American troops stationed in their  countries.
Giving haven for those persecuted for their politics is a core  American value.
The more than 62,000 Cubans resettled by the committee

since 1960 would find this executive order's denial of refugee needs  not just
insulting, but bizarre.

The order also suggests that the resettlement program should make  persecuted
religious minorities a higher priority, implying that they  have been neglected
in the past. This is incorrect; existing law

already places strong emphasis on religious persecution among the  criteria for
resettlement.

Compared with other types of immigrants, refugees are the most  thoroughly
vetted group to enter the United States. The chances that a  citizen here will
be killed by a refugee are one in 3.64 billion; an

American is far more likely to be killed by lightning than by a  terrorist
attack carried out by a refugee.

The United States can be proud of its wide network of refugee  champions, for
good reason: Refugee resettlement is an American  success story. They must be
welcomed out of a sense of a moral

obligation, of course, but also because they have witnessed the myriad  ways
refugees have enriched their communities over the years.

To take one example, over the course of a decade, refugees created at  least 38
new businesses in the Cleveland area alone. In turn, these  businesses created
an additional 175 jobs, and in 2012 provided a $12  million stimulus to the
local economy.

There is a further concern raised by the president's refugee ban. When  the
United States abjures its responsibility to the world's most  vulnerable people,
it forgoes its moral authority to call upon the

countries of Europe, as well as poorer nations like Lebanon, Turkey,  Kenya and
Pakistan, which host over five million refugees among them,  to provide such
shelter.

Historically, the United States has welcomed the 'huddled masses  yearning to
breathe free,' and this has helped cement America's  leadership of the
international order. But why should others continue

to bear their heavy burdens when the United States won't? Support for  refugees
is not charity; it is a contribution to the global stability  on which all
nations depend - and this is especially important at a

time when the world faces a heightened threat of terrorism.

Terrorists are strategic in their work and their messaging. The  civilized world
must be equally strategic in its response. Where  extremists seek to foster a
clash of civilizations, democratic  governments should not play into their
hands.

That is what a ban on specific nationalities does. It is not right, it  is not
needed and it is not smart.

Expert review of the resettlement vetting process is part of good  government.
Hasty dismissal of carefully developed systems is harmful in and of itself. It
is also a distressing departure from fact-based

policy making.   The world looks to America for enlightened leadership. Its
citizens  seek the same from their government. Refugee policy is a telling test
for every nation. The United States passed that test for so many  years, so it
is a tragedy for it now to fail when its commitment is  needed more than ever.

This week President Trump revived a ban on providing foreign aid to  health
providers abroad that offer abortion counseling as part of  their family
planning services. The ban, called by critics the global  gag rule, could have a
major impact on poor women and communities  served abroad, outside USA.

Mostly impoverished, many with H.I.V. or other medical conditions that  make
pregnancy complicated or risky.   Many of the women rely on agriculture and
small plots of land for both  their food and their income. This is an area that
has a high rate of  H.I.V. and has for many years, and so there is quite a large

population of H.I.V. positive women and families that have been  greatly
affected by H.I.V. There is a high rate of orphans and a need  for extended
family for support.

There are lots of women as the primary supporters of their children  and their
extended family.

What is their biggest maternal health need?   Their biggest need is
full-spectrum reproductive health care,  including contraceptive and sometimes
abortion services, as well as  full maternity care.

One of the things that is a challenge in the system of reproductive  health care
is that for many people they don't necessarily know that  they need it until
they are faced with an unplanned pregnancy. One of

the biggest killers in sub-Saharan Africa is maternal mortality, and  lots of
these people don't necessarily know that they need to protect  themselves from
that. So they aren't necessarily seeking out

contraceptive care until it's too late - they have an unplanned  pregnancy that
might affect their life.

Both to have healthy lives and economically to be able to support  their
families, limiting and spacing pregnancies is incredibly  important.

A group gathered for counseling on family planning options in western Kenya.
Why might these pregnancies lead to a maternal death?   The major reason is lack
of access to care. Here in the U.S., we take  being pregnant as being much
safer. In the U.S., we have a clinic and  easy access to a facility if a woman
needs it. There are no ambulances  in large swaths of the area that we serve, so
if someone does have a  complication from a pregnancy they die much easier than
in the U.S.  Caitlin Parks outside the United States Supreme Court in October
2016.  She spent a week in Washington lobbying with Physicians for Reproductive
Health.

The same goes for abortion. We know, regardless of whether we agree or disagree
with it, that they will occur. Here in the U.S., because it  is legal and we
have better access, we know that we can obtain a safe

abortion. There, for women who do have an abortion, it is much more  likely to
be unsafe and lead to  both health- and life-threatening  conditions.

And we know certainly that the only way to prevent life- and  health-threatening
conditions from a pregnancy or an abortion is to  make contraception available
to all women.   How will the ban affect your clinics and the services you
provide?

Abortion is illegal in Kenya. The biggest thing for us is the fact  that there
are certain conditions within Kenyan law that allow it to  be performed - both
health and life conditions. But the U.S. ban is  not clear. Sometimes, there is
an interpretation that we could refer  for an abortion, if they are in a
health-threatening condition. The  other interpretation is only if life
threatening. That difference  between health and life threatening is
problematic. It scares  providers from talking about it at all, even in cases
when it could be  both health and life threatening.

For other institutions, in countries where abortion is legally  available, it
prevents them from performing or referring for abortion  services.  No matter
where you are in the world, the most important thing is to  be able to make
these decisions with a woman and her doctors as to  what they think is the most
important and safest thing for a woman and  her body, and not to be guided by
blanket rules that are not guided by  patient care.

When we have something, like the global gag rule, it doesn't allow for  some of
the nuances that are important for making those individual  decisions. Even if
it would be allowed, no one will even discuss the  possibilities because the
entire topic is silenced.

Describe a patient who needed your services.   She was a young woman with a
dangerous heart condition that requires  medication that would pose risks to a
developing fetus. She thought

that she could not become pregnant because of her condition and had  previously
been unable to afford birth control. When she became  pregnant, she was afraid
of becoming sicker and dying, leaving her  young children orphaned. She needed
access for a safe, legal abortion.

We were able to provide her a referral for a safe abortion within our  own
organization.  This ban would mean that we would not even be able to give her
information about where to go, leaving her to find some other unsafe  means of
obtaining her needed health.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2017 The Messenger
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 30, 2017 Monday

Save the Children Statement on U.S. Executive Order on Suspension of Refugee
Resettlement

LENGTH: 507  words

DATELINE: New York



 California: The Department of Children Federation Organization has issued the
following news release:



 In response to executive action by the United States Government regarding
refugee resettlement, Carolyn Miles, President & CEO of Save the Children,
released the following statement:





 "The United States has long been a beacon of hope for the millions of children
and families trying to escape war and persecution. The world is facing its
largest crisis of displaced people since World War II, with more than 65 million
people forced to flee their homes. More than half of all refugees are children,
whose only chance for survival and a better future relies on access to safety.
We all have a moral obligation to help. Refugee children have been terrorized;
they are not terrorists.



 "I have met with hundreds of refugee families--in the U.S., Germany, and
throughout the Middle East and Africa. I have heard firsthand their stories of
unrelenting war, and triumph over incredible hardship that no one should have to
endure. Nearly every family I've met has told me that their main reason for
fleeing was so their children could have a childhood, an education, and a chance
at a future. Now is not the time to turn our back on these families, or our core
American values, by banning refugees. We can protect our citizens without
putting even more barriers in front of those who have lost everything and want
to build a better future in America.



 "The reality is that the U.S. refugee resettlement program saves lives--namely
of women and children under 12, who make up 77 percent of the Syrian refugees in
the U.S.--while helping to ensure the safety of our country. Refugees already go
through extensive vetting: a refugee's identity is checked against law
enforcement and intelligence databases of at least five federal agencies, a
process that takes nearly two years. If there is any doubt about who a refugee
is, he or she is not admitted to the United States. Save the Children takes no
issue with proposals to further perfect the vetting process to protect our
nation's safety, but we must remember that resettling refugees reinforces our
security by supporting key allies that are disproportionately affected by forced
displacement.



 "The United States should continue to show leadership and share in our global
responsibility to provide refuge to the most vulnerable, regardless of religion
or nationality. Welcoming refugees sends a strong message to groups that want to
do us harm: the United States remains a leading pillar for stability and liberty
in the world.



 "Since its founding in 1919, Save the Children has worked tirelessly to help
millions of refugee children and families--providing lifesaving assistance,
improving access to education and quality healthcare, and protecting children
from exploitation. We are committed to continuing this vital work, regardless of
ethnicity, religion or any other factor."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolution.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 30, 2017 Monday

Save the Children Statement on U.S. Executive Order on Suspension of Refugee
Resettlement

LENGTH: 507  words

DATELINE: New York



 California: The Department of Children Federation Organization has issued the
following news release:



 In response to executive action by the United States Government regarding
refugee resettlement, Carolyn Miles, President & CEO of Save the Children,
released the following statement:





 "The United States has long been a beacon of hope for the millions of children
and families trying to escape war and persecution. The world is facing its
largest crisis of displaced people since World War II, with more than 65 million
people forced to flee their homes. More than half of all refugees are children,
whose only chance for survival and a better future relies on access to safety.
We all have a moral obligation to help. Refugee children have been terrorized;
they are not terrorists.



 "I have met with hundreds of refugee families--in the U.S., Germany, and
throughout the Middle East and Africa. I have heard firsthand their stories of
unrelenting war, and triumph over incredible hardship that no one should have to
endure. Nearly every family I've met has told me that their main reason for
fleeing was so their children could have a childhood, an education, and a chance
at a future. Now is not the time to turn our back on these families, or our core
American values, by banning refugees. We can protect our citizens without
putting even more barriers in front of those who have lost everything and want
to build a better future in America.



 "The reality is that the U.S. refugee resettlement program saves lives--namely
of women and children under 12, who make up 77 percent of the Syrian refugees in
the U.S.--while helping to ensure the safety of our country. Refugees already go
through extensive vetting: a refugee's identity is checked against law
enforcement and intelligence databases of at least five federal agencies, a
process that takes nearly two years. If there is any doubt about who a refugee
is, he or she is not admitted to the United States. Save the Children takes no
issue with proposals to further perfect the vetting process to protect our
nation's safety, but we must remember that resettling refugees reinforces our
security by supporting key allies that are disproportionately affected by forced
displacement.



 "The United States should continue to show leadership and share in our global
responsibility to provide refuge to the most vulnerable, regardless of religion
or nationality. Welcoming refugees sends a strong message to groups that want to
do us harm: the United States remains a leading pillar for stability and liberty
in the world.



 "Since its founding in 1919, Save the Children has worked tirelessly to help
millions of refugee children and families--providing lifesaving assistance,
improving access to education and quality healthcare, and protecting children
from exploitation. We are committed to continuing this vital work, regardless of
ethnicity, religion or any other factor."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolution.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                              Anadolu Agency (AA)

                            January 29, 2017 Sunday

Trump's 'Muslim ban' angers African Muslims

LENGTH: 479 words


Features

archive

By Hassan Isilow

JOHANNESBURG, South Africa

Muslim leaders and activists in Africa have voiced fears that U.S President
Donald Trump's recent executive orders banning refugees and travelers from seven
Muslim-majority countries could be used by terror groups to garner support.

On Friday, Trump signed an executive order temporarily banning refugees and
travelers from Syria, Somalia, Sudan, Yemen, Libya, Iran and Iraq.

Sheikh Ameenuddin, leader of Mozambique's Muslim community, called Trump's
policy sad and illogical.

"This decision might make militant groups to get more support worsening our
world peace," Ameenuddin told Anadolu Agency Sunday via telephone from
Mozambique's capital Maputo.

Sheikh Ali Bulle, a Muslim leader in southwestern Somalia, said the al-Qaeda
linked al-Shabaab militant group in the country would now get more recruits.

Iqbal Jassat, an executive of the Johannesburg-based Muslim advocacy group Media
Review Network, said they had been deeply troubled by Trump's ban and condemned
it in the strongest terms.

"Donald Trump seems to be in a race to crown himself as a bigot and defining his
administration as a world leader of xenophobia and islampophobia,'' Jassat said
in an interview with Anadolu Agency Sunday.

He said although they were encouraged by the wave of protests and judicial
orders condemning the ban, he said the Trump administration would remain adamant
in pursuing its Islamophobic policies.

"Refugees who are homeless and displaced as a direct result of America's wars of
aggression in their homelands such as Somalia, Syria, Iraq and Libya will feel
more aggrieved," he said.

The activist said they also believe that resistance to America's military
presence in the wider Muslim world would intensify as a result of its
anti-Muslim policies.

"We call on South Africa, the African Union and international community to
urgently reassess its alliance with America's 'war on terror'," he said.

Faisal Suleiman of the South Africa Muslim Network (SAMNET) said he believes
with time Trump would realize that Muslims are not a threat to the U.S.

Suleiman said it is wrong to classify all Muslims as a threat yet reports have
found that most Muslims who migrate and integrate with their new countries have
higher rates of education and low crime levels.

In Somalia, residents expressed fear that if some of their relatives whom they
depend on for monthly remittances are deported back home they would have no
means of survival. Tens of thousands of Somali refugees live in the U.S., with
some still struggling to formalize their stay. Hundreds of thousands of families
in Somalia depend on remittances sent from the United States and other western
countries.

* Mohammed Dhaysane contributed to this story from Mogadishu in Somalia

http://imgs.syndigate.info/148/400/1/148572765489.jpg?v=193745

Trump's 'Muslim ban' angers African Muslims

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 400


                          Copyright 2017 Andolu Ajansi
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            January 29, 2017 Sunday

Can Trump legally block new refugees?;
President Trump suspended the U.S. refugee program for 120 days, banned
immigrants from seven Muslim nations for 90 days and ordered his administration
to develop "extreme vetting" measures for immigrants from those countries to
keep "radical Islamic terrorists" out of the U.S. The order, signed Friday, bars
all Syrians from entering the U.S., and gives preference in admission to
Christians.

BYLINE: Oren Dorell and Alan Gomez l USA TODAY

SECTION: ; Pg. Z2

LENGTH: 728 words


Syrian Saturday children . President play Trump in the snow has issued in the a
Deir temporary Zeinoun ban refugee on all camp immigrants in eastern from
Lebanon Syria. on

QWhat's the difference between immigrants and refugees?

Immigrants come from other countries to the U.S. for a variety of personal
reasons, such as seeking a better life. Refugees are a special class of
immigrants who seek asylum from war, persecution and other risks to their
safety. They have protected status under international law.

QWho are the refugees admitted to the U.S. in 2016?

Most of the 85,000 refugees admitted in 2016 came from countries that are at war
or under the control of repressive governments. Top admissions from Africa came
from the war-torn Democratic Republic of Congo (16,370) and Somalia (9,020).
From East Asia, most came from Myanmar, formerly known as Burma, (12,347). The
greatest number of Europeans came from Ukraine (2,543), which is at war with
Russian-backed irregular troops in the east. Colombians

(529) fleeing an insurgency topped the list from South America, and Syrians
(12,587) and Iraqis (9,880) fleeing civil war and terrorist groups topped the
list from the Near East and South Asia.

QHow many refugees has the U.S. admitted in the past?

Total U.S. refugee admissions have dropped steadily from 146,158 in 1975, when
135,000 came from Asia, according to the State Department.

QDoes Trump have the legal authority to block refugees and other immigrants?

He might on security grounds. A president has the power to shut down the refugee
program without approval from Congress. Federal law allows the president to bar
entry to any immigrant "or any class" of immigrants if he deems them
"detrimental to the interests of the United States," and to "impose on the entry
of aliens any restrictions he may deem to be appropriate," according to the law.

QHow many immigrants does the U.S. admit, and how many from the seven countries
on Trump's list?

The State Department issued 617,752 immigrant visas and 10,891,745 non-immigrant
(tourist and worker) visas in 2016. One out of 20 immigrant visas - roughly
30,000 - went to people from the seven majority Muslim countries cited by the
president: Iran, Iraq, Syria, Libya, Sudan, Somalia and Yemen.

QWhy did he single out those seven countries?

Three of them - Iran, Sudan and Syria - comprise the State Department's list of
state sponsors of terrorism. The other four - Iraq, Libya, Somalia and Yemen -
are designated "terrorist safe havens" by the State Department.

QHave any refugees from those countries recently committed terrorist acts in the
U.S.?

No. The two major U.S. terrorist attacks that occurred in 2015 and 2016 involved
people with ties to countries not on that list: Omar Mateen, who killed 49
people at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando last June, was a U.S.-born
Afghan-American who'd traveled to Saudi Arabia in recent years. And Syed Rizwan
Farook and Tashfeen Malik, the married couple who killed 14 people in San
Bernardino, Calif., on Dec. 2, 2015, also had no ties to those seven countries.
Farook was born in the U.S. to Pakistani immigrants, and his wife was a recent
arrival from Saudi Arabia, which Farook had visited.

QHow are refugees now vetted?

The State Department says it has the most exhaustive background system in the
world. Refugees are first interviewed in their home countries and their
backgrounds are checked carefully during a process that can take up to two
years. Some refugees worked for the U.S. military in Iraq as translators or in
other jobs and are seeking asylum for fears of being singled out for their
association with the U.S. government.

QWhy a total ban on Syrians?

Syria is a concern because the Islamic State militant group that is behind
terrorist acts around the world still operates in the country. About 11 million
Syrians - half of the population - have been displaced.

QWho are the Syrians admitted to the U.S.?

The State Department says the vast majority of the 12,587 admitted last year are
women and children, and only 2% are single young men who are most likely to
commit terrorist acts.

QCan Trump block or favor refugees based on their religion?

Legal experts say a ban on Muslim immigrants rather than a ban on immigrants
from specific countries that have Muslim majorities would be challenged based on
the First Amendment, which guarantees freedom of religion.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2017 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              210 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                  Edmonton Sun

                            January 29, 2017 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Local Muslim community holding hope on immigration ban

BYLINE: Catherine Griwkowsky, With Files From The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 478  words


A U.S. ban on immigrants and refugees from predominantly Muslim countries is
everyone's problem.

That's the message from Aurangzed Qureshi, spokesman for the Alberta Muslim
Public Affairs Council. He said he has seen support from Edmonton and Alberta
already.

"We can stand up for each other, we can continue to fight for each other," he
said. "It's not just about Muslims, it's about humanity. It's about acting
locally and thinking globally." U.S. President Donald Trump signed an executive
order on Friday that included a 90-day travel ban to the U.S. by citizens of
Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia or Yemen.

There is also a 120-day suspension to the U.S. refugee program. The president
said the ban was necessary to stop "radical Islamic terrorists," the Associated
Press reported.

On Saturday evening, a temporary, partial stay filed by the Americal Civil
Liberties Union was granted by a federal judge in Brooklyn, barring the U.S.
from deporting travelers with valid visas. The stay does not say they need to be
admitted to the country.

Following the executive order, several people were detained in U.S. airports,
including Hameed Khalid Darweesh, a translator and assistant for the U.S.
military in Iraq for 10 years now fleeing death threats over his U.S. ties.

"It's a troubling concept that his can happen in this day and age," Quershi
said. "It's 2017 and people have been banned from entering the United States
based on their faith."

Qureshi called the democratic deficit an attack on the bedrock of what makes
America successful and he predicts blow back from terrorist organizations.

Qureshi said actions like the ban from the president legitimize and justifies
bigotry, racism and Islamaphobia - previously considered universally wrong.

The move will help Daesh recruit fighters against the West, Qureshi said.

"(Terrorists) don't want coexistence," Qureshi said.

The ban on Muslims from North Africa and the Middle East also perpetuates the
narrative that Muslims from North Africa and the Middle East are a monolithic
entity that must be kept at bay.

"It's a sad day in America," Qureshi said.

The fallout from a legal perspective and an activist perspective remains to be
seen, he said, adding the province and Edmonton are tolerant. He said there was
anti-Muslim sentiment and race-baiting in the Canadian federal election, which
was rejected.

"We've had a lot of messages of support sent to us, churches writing to us," he
said.

Each time a similar incident has happened including turning away of Sikhs on the
Komagata Maru ship in 1914, the denial of Jewish refugees during the holocaust,
or Japanese internment camps, Canadians have looked back with regret, but it
continues to happen.

"We've seen what's happened throughout history to a number of groups, faiths in
the past," Quershi said. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2017 Sun Media Corporation. All rights
reserved.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2017 Edmonton Sun
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                The Jordan Times

                            January 29, 2017 Sunday

End of 'American Dream' for Muslim Syrian refugees

BYLINE: Mohammad Ghazal , Khetam Malkawi

LENGTH: 675  words


By Mohammad Ghazal , Khetam Malkawi - Jan 29,2017 - Last updated at Jan 29,2017

AMMAN -- For Mustafa and his family, who are Syrian refugees in Jordan, a better
life in the United States seemed within reach.

He was contacted by the US-established temporary offsite processing centre in
July 2016, and he and his family underwent several interviews to determine their
eligibility for resettlement in the US.

They were subsequently told that they qualified and that they were in line to be
resettled in the US sometime in 2017.

On Sunday, however, their dreams of a good life in the US were shattered,
perhaps irreparably, by the new US administration.

Mustafa said he was "shocked and deeply saddened" by US President Donald Trump's
executive order, which bans the entry of Syrian refugees and stops the admission
of all refugees to the United States for four months.

"I hereby proclaim that the entry of nationals of Syria as refugees is
detrimental to the interests of the United States and thus suspend any such
entry," Trump declared in his Friday's executive order. The executive order bars
all nationals from Iraq, Syria, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen from
entering the US.

Mustafa, who preferred to be called Abu Mohammad, fled with his family of six to
Jordan from Syria's Homs in 2012, seeking a safe haven amidst intensified
fighting between Syrian regime forces and rebel groups.

"My family and I had high hopes of a better life in the US...We were actually
very enthusiastic when we were contacted by the Resettlement Support Centre for
the Middle East and North Africa (RSC MENA) and started the process and were
informed that we qualified," Abu Mohammad said.

"But after Trump's decision we feel betrayed and isolated," he added.

"Many of my friends and relatives have already been resettled in the US and
other countries such as Canada...I think that Trump's decision is racist and we
did not expect it," Abu Mohammad, who works in household maintenance, said
Sunday.

Last September, former US president Barack Obama issued a directive ordering the
admission of 10,000 Syrian refugees to the US by September 30, 2016.

Abu Mohammad said he read in several media outlets about the suspension of the
entry of Syrian refugees to the US and said it was "frustrating".

"I feel that Syrians are being targeted. What did we do? We fled our homes and
everything we had back home seeking a better future. The US has been always a
key defender of human rights and stood with the vulnerable, but why the
discrimination?" he said.

"Why are Muslim Syrians banned, while Christian Syrians are not? This is a
religious decision I think," Abu Mohammad said.

Another Syrian refugee, who preferred to be called Abu Rami, said he has also
been interviewed by the RSC MENA, which is operated by the International
Organisation for Migration (IOM) and funded by the US State Department .

"My family and I went for several interviews in 2016 and we were told that we
had been shortlisted... this decision is killing our hopes... we've already
given up hope of going back home," he said.

"This is not the America we have always been hearing about," Abu Rami said.

According to RSC MENA's facts concerning the project of processing Syrian cases
for resettlement in 11 countries throughout the region, the majority of the
process is taking place in Jordan, Iraq, Egypt and the UAE.

As of January 26, 2017, 11,822 Syrians have submitted applications to the United
States Refugee Admission Programme from the MENA region, with RSC MENA
processing 67 per cent of the applications of Syrians already resettled in the
US.

In documents seen by The Jordan Times, there are 11,289 Syrians pending IOM
prescreening, 10,192 Syrians pending United States Citizenship and Immigration
Services interview and 6,114 Syrians pending travel.

In terms of breakdown of Syrian applicants to the programme by age, 56 per cent
are aged below18 years and 43 per cent are aged between 18-65 years.

In terms of breakdown by country of asylum, 79 per cent are seeking asylum from
Jordan and 13 per cent from Egypt.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 62


                        Copyright 2017 The Jordan Times.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                            January 29, 2017 Sunday
                                 METRO EDITION

DATA DROP

BYLINE: ANDY MANNIX; C.J. SINNER; STAFF WRITERS, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 623 words



HIGHLIGHT: Trump's immigration orders will be felt in Minnesota


It was a busy first week on the job for Donald Trump.

On Wednesday, the freshly inaugurated president took the first steps on his
"extreme vetting" promises to gridlock immigration into the United States and
signed an executive order to construct a border wall with Mexico. He's also
poised to punish sanctuary cities like Minneapolis and St. Paul that have
promised to buck federal laws in order to protect immigrant communities. That
could potentially halt millions of dollars in federal funding to the two cities.

On Friday, Trump signed an order to suspend admission of refugees for 120 days,
including those wishing to find asylum in Minnesota, and increase vetting of
potential refugees from the predominantly Muslim, war-battered nations of
Somalia, Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya and Yemen.

It's yet to be seen how these tough-on-immigration policies will play out
nationally, but they're almost certain to have dramatic implications for
Minnesota's increasingly diverse population.

Over the past 15 years, Minnesota has seen more than 40,000 people move here as
refugees, meaning the state is offering humanitarian protection to people
fleeing unsafe areas of the world, according to U.S. Refugee Admissions Program
data.

A majority - more than 16,000 - came from Somalia, contributing to Minnesota
becoming home to the largest population of immigrants from the Eastern African
country in North America. Last year, about 3,000 refugees moved to Minnesota,
nearly half of whom came from Somalia.

Beyond refugees, it's much harder to count how many people come directly from
other countries to Minnesota through other immigration channels. Many people end
up here after first arriving in other parts of the U.S.

But we can measure what share of Minnesota's population is made up of people who
were born in foreign countries and now reside here. As of 2015, about 8 percent
of the state's 5.4 million residents were born in foreign countries, according
to the U.S. Census American Community Survey data.

Among the foreign-born residents counted in 2015, more than 67,000 came from
Mexico. Nearly 54,000 were born in Eastern African nations, such as Somalia,
according to the survey data.

In the meantime, cities like Minneapolis and St. Paul are bracing for how Trump
could cut their budgets. The president's order will strip federal grant funding
from going to the estimated 300-plus sanctuary cities in the United States.

Federal dollars only account for about 2 to 3 percent of the Minneapolis and St.
Paul budgets - $27.7 million and $14.6 million, respectively, according to a
Star Tribune story published last week by Adam Belz and Jessie Van Berkel.

"It'll be a problem to solve in the budget, and I don't look forward to having
to do that, but a bigger problem is when we jeopardize and undermine the
foundations of our democracy," Minneapolis Mayor Betsy Hodges said.

Andy Mannix · 612-673-4036 andy.mannix@startribune.com

CJ Sinner · 612-673-4387 cj.sinner@startribune.com

TOP COUNTRIES OF ORIGIN FOR REFUGEES

The top four countries of origin for Minnesota refugees 2002-2016.

2016

Somalia: 1,405

Myanmar: 658

Ethiopia: 277

Laos: 0

(See the page PDF or microfilm for the complete chart.)

Source: Refugee Processing Center

MINNESOTA' S GROWING FOREIGN-BORN POPULATION

The number of foreign-born residents in Minnesota has grown steadily, rising
from 2 percent of the population in 1980 to 8 percent in 2015.

2015: 457,185

(See the page PDF or microfilm for the complete chart.)

Source: U.S. Census Bureau

ORIGIN OF FOREIGN-BORN MINNESOTANS

Countries from which the Trump administration would limit further immigration.

Mexico 67,407

Somalia 25,027

Sudan 2,281

Iran 1,705

Iraq 1,554

Syria 450

Yemen 136

Source:American Community Survey MARK BOSWELL · Star Tribune

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2017 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     January 28, 2017 Saturday 12:45 AM GMT

US refugee ban: Trump decried for 'stomping on' American values;
UN agencies, rights groups and political leaders challenge legality of executive
order which appears to target Muslims Trump signs 'extreme vetting' executive
order for people entering the US

BYLINE: Paul Owen, Sabrina Siddiqui, Heather Stewart, staff and agencies

SECTION: US NEWS

LENGTH: 1133 words


Donald Trump is facing mounting criticism from world leaders and aid
organisations after ending his first week as president with a ban on all Syrian
refugees entering the US and a halt on arrivals from a string of predominantly
Muslim countries.

The president signed an executive order to stop all refugee arrivals for four
months - and Syrian arrivals indefinitely - on Friday, hours after meeting the
British prime minister Theresa May and reportedly reaffirming his commitment to
Nato.

Related:  Trump signs 'extreme vetting' executive order for people entering the
US

The move, which he described as "extreme vetting" measures intended to "keep
terrorists out", was even more severe than expected. It will amount to a de
facto ban on Muslims traveling to the US from parts of the Middle East and north
Africa by prioritising refugee claims "on the basis of religious-based
persecution".

The order, named Protection of the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry into the
United States, places a 90-day block on entry to the US from citizens from Iran,
Iraq, Syria, Yemen, Sudan, Libya and Somalia. It is unclear whether the measure
would apply to citizens of those countries on trips abroad who already have
permission to live and work in the US.

The order also caps the total number of refugees entering the US in 2017 to
50,000, less than half the previous year's figure of 117,000.

The United Nations refugee agency (UNHCR) and International Organization for
Migration (IOM) called on the Trump administration to continue offering asylum
to people fleeing war and persecution, saying its resettlement programme was
vital.

"The needs of refugees and migrants worldwide have never been greater and the US
resettlement programme is one of the most important in the world," the
Geneva-based agencies said in a joint statement.

They said the US's acceptance of refugees had offered a double benefit, "first
by rescuing some of the most vulnerable people in the world and second by
enabling them to enrich their new societies".

Chuck Schumer, Democratic leader in the Senate, said: "Tears are running down
the cheeks of the Statue of Liberty tonight as a grand tradition of America,
welcoming immigrants, that has existed since America was founded, has been
stomped upon.

"Taking in immigrants and refugees is not only humanitarian but has also boosted
our economy and created jobs decade after decade. This is one of the most
backward and nasty executive orders that the president has issued."

The Council on American-Islamic Relations announced it would be filing a federal
lawsuit challenging the constitutionality of the order "because its apparent
purpose and underlying motive is to ban people of the Islamic faith from
Muslim-majority countries from entering the United States".

"There is no evidence that refugees - the most thoroughly vetted of all people
entering our nation - are a threat to national security," said Lena F Masri, the
council's litigation director. "This is an order that is based on bigotry, not
reality."

Malala Yousafzai, the Pakistani campaigner for girls' education who survived an
attempted murder by the Taliban when she was 15, said she was "heartbroken" that
America was "turning its back on a proud history of welcoming refugees and
immigrants - the people who helped build your country, ready to work hard in
exchange for a fair chance at a new life".

She added: "I am heartbroken that Syrian refugee children, who have suffered
through six years of war by no fault of their own, are singled out for
discrimination."

Madeline Albright, the former US secretary of state, said: "There is no fine
print on the Statue of Liberty. America must remain open to people of all faiths
and backgrounds."

She was referring the inscription of the iconic New York landmark: "Give me your
tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, the wretched
refuse of your teeming shore. Send these, the homeless, tempest-tossed to me, I
lift my lamp beside the golden door."

Facebook's chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, said in a statement he was
concerned about the impact of Trump's executive orders.

Zuckerberg, who is Jewish, said his great-grandparents came to the US from
Germany, Austria and Poland and his wife's parents were refugees from China and
Vietnam. "The United States is a nation of immigrants, and we should be proud of
that," he said.

"Expanding the focus of law enforcement beyond people who are real threats would
make all Americans less safe by diverting resources, while millions of
undocumented folks who don't pose a threat will live in fear of deportation."

As well as halting Syrian arrivals indefinitely, the president's order suspends
the admittance of all refugees to the US for 120 days. In Syria alone, the
nearly six-year war under Bashar al-Assad's regime has led to more than 500,000
civilian deaths and displaced an estimated 11 million Syrians.

Although Trump administration officials continue to insist the president's
actions are not targeted at any one faith, the text of the order made explicit
that, when the 120-day suspension ended, the US government would prioritize
religious minorities in Muslim-majority countries.

It states: "Upon the resumption of USRAP [US Refugee Admissions Program]
admissions, the secretary of state, in consultation with the secretary of
homeland security, is further directed to make changes, to the extent permitted
by law, to prioritize refugee claims made by individuals on the basis of
religious-based persecution, provided that the religion of the individual is a
minority religion in the individual's country of nationality."

The order was published hours after Trump met May, the first meeting with an
international head of state since his inauguration last week.

In a White House press conference on Friday, the British prime minister said:
"On defence and security cooperation, we're united in our recognition of Nato as
the bulwark of our collective defence and we reaffirmed our unshakeable
commitment to this alliance. We're 100% behind Nato."

Downing Street has sought to toe a difficult line, between Britain's need to
maintain a close relationship with the US as it leaves the EU, and Trump's
unpredictability, as well as the fact that many British voters are sceptical
about him.

Sources said the two leaders felt they had gained something from their
discussion. May flew from Washington to Turkey overnight for bilateral talks
with President Raycep Erdogan.

Trump will spend Saturday calling world leaders, including Angela Merkel of
Germany, François Hollande of France and Russia's Vladamir Putin. The
president's links to the latter have been the subject of huge press and public
interest, and their call is expected to include discussion of the US dropping
trade embargoes against Russia.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2017 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     January 28, 2017 Saturday 12:45 AM GMT

US refugee ban: Trump decried for 'stomping on' American values;
UN agencies, rights groups and political leaders challenge legality of executive
order which appears to target Muslims Trump signs 'extreme vetting' executive
order for people entering the US

BYLINE: Paul Owen, Sabrina Siddiqui, Heather Stewart, staff and agencies

SECTION: US NEWS

LENGTH: 1239 words


Donald Trump is facing mounting criticism from world leaders and aid
organisations after ending his first week as president with a ban on all Syrian
refugees entering the US and a halt on arrivals from a string of predominantly
Muslim countries.

The president signed an executive order to stop all refugee arrivals for four
months - and Syrian arrivals indefinitely - on Friday, hours after meeting the
British prime minister Theresa May and reportedly reaffirming his commitment to
Nato.

Related:  Trump signs 'extreme vetting' executive order for people entering the
US

The move, which he described as "extreme vetting" measures intended to "keep
terrorists out", was even more severe than expected. It will amount to a de
facto ban on Muslims traveling to the US from parts of the Middle East and north
Africa by prioritising refugee claims "on the basis of religious-based
persecution".

The order has already reportedly blocked people from flying into US airports, or
clearing customs after arriving in the country. The Arab-American
Anti-Discrimination Committee said people who had landed after the order was
enacted at 4.30pm had been blocked and told they had to return to their point of
origin.

Named the Protection of the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry into the United
States, the order places a 90-day block on entry to the US from citizens from
Iran, Iraq, Syria, Yemen, Sudan, Libya and Somalia. It is unclear whether the
measure would apply to citizens of those countries on trips abroad who already
have permission to live and work in the US.

The order also caps the total number of refugees entering the US in 2017 to
50,000, less than half the previous year's figure of 117,000.

The United Nations refugee agency (UNHCR) and International Organization for
Migration (IOM) called on the Trump administration to continue offering asylum
to people fleeing war and persecution, saying its resettlement programme was
vital.

"The needs of refugees and migrants worldwide have never been greater and the US
resettlement programme is one of the most important in the world," the
Geneva-based agencies said in a joint statement.

They said the US's acceptance of refugees had offered a double benefit, "first
by rescuing some of the most vulnerable people in the world and second by
enabling them to enrich their new societies".

Chuck Schumer, Democratic leader in the Senate, said: "Tears are running down
the cheeks of the Statue of Liberty tonight as a grand tradition of America,
welcoming immigrants, that has existed since America was founded, has been
stomped upon.

"Taking in immigrants and refugees is not only humanitarian but has also boosted
our economy and created jobs decade after decade. This is one of the most
backward and nasty executive orders that the president has issued."

The Council on American-Islamic Relations announced it would be filing a federal
lawsuit challenging the constitutionality of the order "because its apparent
purpose and underlying motive is to ban people of the Islamic faith from
Muslim-majority countries from entering the United States".

"There is no evidence that refugees - the most thoroughly vetted of all people
entering our nation - are a threat to national security," said Lena F Masri, the
council's litigation director. "This is an order that is based on bigotry, not
reality."

Malala Yousafzai, the Pakistani campaigner for girls' education who survived an
attempted murder by the Taliban when she was 15, said she was "heartbroken" that
America was "turning its back on a proud history of welcoming refugees and
immigrants - the people who helped build your country, ready to work hard in
exchange for a fair chance at a new life".

She added: "I am heartbroken that Syrian refugee children, who have suffered
through six years of war by no fault of their own, are singled out for
discrimination."

Madeline Albright, the former US secretary of state, said: "There is no fine
print on the Statue of Liberty. America must remain open to people of all faiths
and backgrounds."

She was referring the inscription of the iconic New York landmark: "Give me your
tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, the wretched
refuse of your teeming shore. Send these, the homeless, tempest-tossed to me, I
lift my lamp beside the golden door."

Facebook's chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, said in a statement he was
concerned about the impact of Trump's executive orders.

Zuckerberg, who is Jewish, said his great-grandparents came to the US from
Germany, Austria and Poland and his wife's parents were refugees from China and
Vietnam. "The United States is a nation of immigrants, and we should be proud of
that," he said.

"Expanding the focus of law enforcement beyond people who are real threats would
make all Americans less safe by diverting resources, while millions of
undocumented folks who don't pose a threat will live in fear of deportation."

Google issued a statement saying it was "concerned about the impact of this
order and any proposals that could impose restrictions on Googlers and their
families, or that could create barriers to bringing great talent to the US.
We'll continue to make our views on these issues known to leaders in Washington
and elsewhere."

As well as halting Syrian arrivals indefinitely, the president's order suspends
the admittance of all refugees to the US for 120 days. In Syria alone, the
nearly six-year war under Bashar al-Assad's regime has led to more than 500,000
civilian deaths and displaced an estimated 11 million Syrians.

Although Trump administration officials continue to insist the president's
actions are not targeted at any one faith, the text of the order made explicit
that, when the 120-day suspension ended, the US government would prioritize
religious minorities in Muslim-majority countries.

It states: "Upon the resumption of USRAP [US Refugee Admissions Program]
admissions, the secretary of state, in consultation with the secretary of
homeland security, is further directed to make changes, to the extent permitted
by law, to prioritize refugee claims made by individuals on the basis of
religious-based persecution, provided that the religion of the individual is a
minority religion in the individual's country of nationality."

The order was published hours after Trump met May, the first meeting with an
international head of state since his inauguration last week.

In a White House press conference on Friday, the British prime minister said:
"On defence and security cooperation, we're united in our recognition of Nato as
the bulwark of our collective defence and we reaffirmed our unshakeable
commitment to this alliance. We're 100% behind Nato."

Downing Street has sought to toe a difficult line, between Britain's need to
maintain a close relationship with the US as it leaves the EU, and Trump's
unpredictability, as well as the fact that many British voters are sceptical
about him.

Sources said the two leaders felt they had gained something from their
discussion. May flew from Washington to Turkey overnight for bilateral talks
with President Raycep Erdogan.

Trump will spend Saturday calling world leaders, including Angela Merkel of
Germany, François Hollande of France and Russia's Vladamir Putin. The
president's links to the latter have been the subject of huge press and public
interest, and their call is expected to include discussion of the US dropping
trade embargoes against Russia.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2017 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                           January 28, 2017 Saturday

Utah refugees feel the sting of Trump's executive order;
Executive order  Ibrahim Abdalla, a Sudanese emigrant who became a U.S. citizen,
is among many in Utah who fear they won't see loved ones.

BYLINE: By Mariah Noble The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: UTAH NEWS; Politics

LENGTH: 1329 words


It's been a year and three months since Ibrahim Abdalla has seen his wife, and
after an executive order Friday, he's not sure when they'll meet again.

Abdalla, 54, of West Valley City, fled from his genocide-plagued homeland of
Sudan in 1998, and after living for years in a Jordanian refugee camp, he was
admitted to the United States in 2004. He worked to become a U.S. citizen and
establish a life here, opening an ethnic grocery store in Salt Lake City with
his cousin. In October 2015, he took a trip overseas to get married.

After returning to America, he's spent time working to bring his wife here and
start their new life together.

Then, on Friday, President Donald Trump signed the order suspending refugee
admissions for 120 days, placing an indefinite ban on immigrants from Syria and
a 90-day ban on people from Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen.

"This is hard for me, [not knowing] how she will come," Abdalla said Saturday.
"I'm wondering how can we get my wife. ... I don't see how she can come."

Things had seemed to be moving along for Abdalla's wife, he said. She had her
interview at the U.S. Embassy and submitted her passport to U.S. officials in
November -- generally the last step in the process before a visa is granted.

For three months, she's waited to get her passport back and heard nothing,
Abdalla said.

Even if she is granted a visa, he said, the executive order could stand in the
way of her journey.

Abdalla has a meeting this week with attorney Brian Tanner, who says he has
several clients in a similar situation.

One woman from Somalia -- now a U.S. citizen -- has been separated from her son
for 12 years, after he was mistakenly listed as a nephew or stepson instead of a
biological son on papers and denied admittance to the U.S., Tanner said.

The son was born after his mother fled Somalia, Tanner said, but because of the
lack of birthright citizenship in East African countries, he's a citizen of a
Somalia -- a country in which he's never stepped foot.

Tanner submitted papers last week for the son to come to the United States, he
said, but under Trump's executive order, the son's citizenship disqualifies him
from joining his mother, forcing him to continue living in and out of refugee
camps -- as he has for the past decade.

"We're really worried that they won't be able to see each other again," Tanner
said.

Aden Batar, the refugee-resettlement and immigration director for Catholic
Community Services of Utah, feels disheartened as he watches the United States
close its doors on refugees.

Batar came to the U.S. from Somalia 23 years ago.

"Refugees from those countries, they cannot go back," he said. "I'm originally
from Somalia, [but] Utah is my home because I still can't go back."

The refugee-resettlement program "saves lives," he added, and it doesn't put
national security at risk. Asha Parekh, director for Utah Refugee Services in
the Department of Workforce Services, said the office has already heard
"increased concerns" from refugees over what might happen as a result of the
executive order.

"We cannot turn our backs on those refugees who are already here," Parekh said.
"Part of our state's heritage is to accept people who have been persecuted and
driven out of their home. That is Utah."

There's a sense of uneasiness among refugees, Parekh said, as reports of
bullying and persecution have grown over the last year.


Refugees have been arriving in Utah every week, Batar said, but the ban will
change that. While immigrants were detained at airports elsewhere in the
country, there was no indication that had occurred in Salt Lake City. The U.S.
Department of Homeland Security, which was fielding calls from reporters, did
not answer several phone calls Saturday from The Salt Lake Tribune.

Since resettlement programs began in the 1970s, Utah has accepted 60,000
refugees from 50 countries, Batar said. The new executive order is "devastating"
for them.

The Trump administration should look at the situation in a "humane way," Batar
said, adding that Congress has a responsibility to fulfill past commitments to
accept refugees.

"Our president needs to get the right information," he said. "He needs to go
visit the refugee camps and see how they live."

Refugees have been victims themselves, he said, experiencing torture, bombings
and loss of loved ones firsthand. Refugees are already carefully vetted, he
said, and become contributing members of U.S. society.

"Different consular officers and the refugee-resettlement people do the best job
possibly can to verify that people are truly fearing for their lives," Tanner
said.

Refugee visas aren't easy to come by, he added, and if people truly were intent
on causing problems for the United States, they could find an easier way to do
it.

"The idea of going and trying to sneak into a refugee camp and essentially
languishing there under really terrible conditions for months and months and
months, and then doing it under the pretense of 'I'm going to trick people into
thinking I'm a refugee when really I'm just wanting to hurt people' -- it's
ludicrous," Tanner said. "People have way better things to with their time than
just hang out in really substandard living conditions."

Keeping refugees out "is not American. That is not who we are," Batar said. "
Refugees need our help. We're a nation of immigrants and refugees, and we can't
turn our backs on them."

Coming to the United States "saved" Batar and his family, he said. "Now I'm
member of community. I'm a law-abiding citizen."

He says he's also frustrated that the United States is detaining people who have
worked as interpreters for the military overseas, and he's concerned how it will
affect the world's view of the nation.

"If we send them back, what message would that send? Who's going to work with
our forces?" Batar said. "It's not making America safe."

Utah will continue to provide support and services to refugees who are already
here, Parekh said, and will try to "quell fears" by making sure they know their
rights and where to report harassment.

"There is a lot still unknown about how President Trump's executive order is
going to affect refugees in the long term," she said. "We want to get all of the
details and information before we act."

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on Saturday issued a statement
expressing "special concern for those who are fleeing physical violence, war and
religious persecution."

"The Church," the statement went on to say, "urges all people and governments to
cooperate fully in seeking the best solutions to meet human needs and relieve
suffering."

But the unknowns have refugees worried.

Abdalla spoke to his wife three days ago, but he's worried things will be
different now. He tried calling today, but no one picked up.

He's "just waiting."

mnoble@sltrib.com

Twitter: @mnoblenews --

Protesters rally at SLC International Airport

Hundreds of Utahns protested President Donald Trump's executive order at Salt
Lake City International Airport. There were similar protests at other airports
across the country in response to how some immigrants entering the country were
detained at airports hours after Trump signed the order.

While there were no reports of detentions in Salt Lake City before the order was
temporarily halted, several in the crowd said they came to show their opposition
to the executive order.

"We go to war to defend the freedom of all people," said Bart Tippetts, 71, who
fought in Vietnam in 1966 and 1967.

Ella Mendoza, an undocumented immigrant from Peru, said she walked through the
same airport halls when she came to Utah 14 years ago. "My message is here,"
Mendoza said. "No wall. No ban."

The youngest in a stream of people to tell stories through a megaphone at the
center of a circle of supporters was Millie Kraatz, 8, of Salt Lake City, who
told the crowd she was scared. "I don't think it's fair to not let them in just
because they're different," Kraatz said while standing next to her 10-year-old
sister.

Taylor Anderson

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           January 28, 2017 Saturday

Washington: Trump's Ban of Refugees Weakens Democracy and Threatens America's
Global Leadership Role

LENGTH: 240  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: Public Citizen has issued the following news release:



  Shame on Donald Trump. And shame on any member of Congress who does not speak
up and take immediate action to overturn Trump's outrageous executive order
reportedly limiting entry of immigrants from a number of Muslim and African
countries into the United States.





 Donald Trump - whose mother was born in Scotland, whose father's parents were
born in Germany and whose wife was born in Slovenia - today betrays our nation's
shared history and shared values. There would be no America without immigration,
and there would be no recognizable America without freedom of religion. Yet
today, Donald Trump enacts one of the harshest anti-immigrant actions in our
nation's history and not-so-covertly enacts a religious test for entry into the
United States.



 This measure serves no security interest of the United States, and in fact will
only serve to fuel anger against the United States. Worse, it bars entry of
refugees from countries undergoing humanitarian crises. The United States should
be expanding, not prohibiting, permitted immigration from these nations.



 The fact that Donald Trump is delivering on a campaign promise should not
lessen anyone's shock and outrage at this action. It is a stain on our nation,
and will remain so until reversed.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Times

                            January 27, 2017 Friday

Trump's wall

SECTION: Vol. 15 No. 27

LENGTH: 596  words


While many had written off US President Donald Trump's pre-election promises as
political gimmicks, Trump seems to be sticking to them. During his first week in
the office, President Trump has signed a number of executive orders, most
notable of which include withdrawing from the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP),
building a wall along the US border with Mexico, and a crackdown on US cities
that shield illegal immigrant, proceeding quickly on sweeping and divisive plans
to curb immigration and boost national security. The Republican president is
also expected to take steps in the coming days to limit legal immigration,
including executive orders restricting refugees and blocking the issuing of
visas to people from several Muslim-majority Middle Eastern and North African
countries including Syria, Sudan, Somalia, Iraq, Iran, Libya and Yemen.

Stemming illegal immigration and a temporary ban on Muslims to curb terrorism
was the central plank of Trump's election campaign. His signature policy
prescription was to build a wall across the 2,000-mile border between the United
States and Mexico. Some of the borderis already fenced, but Trump says a wall is
needed to stop illegal immigrants entering from Latin America. Experts have
voiced doubts about whether a wall would actually stem illegal immigration, or
if it is worth the billions it would be expected to cost. Along with signing the
executive order, Trump has again promised '100 percent' to make Mexico pay for
the wall, which the Mexican government has out rightly rejected. Moreover, the
executive order to slash the number of refugees allowed to resettle in the
United States, particularly from Syria and other Muslim-majority countries is
expected this week. An estimated 18,000 Syrians have come to the United States
since the refugee crisis. The orders are expected to restrict immigration and
access to the United States for refugees and visa holders from Iraq, Iran,
Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen. Trump is defying the opinions of all the
analysts and sticking to the campaign promises. Moreover, a Republicans
dominated Congress is also unlikely to move against the Presidential orders as a
number of Republicans were already against the illegal immigration as well as
the threat of 'radical Islam'. Analysts have pointed out that a majority of the
illegal immigrants are those who got into the US legally but overstayed after
their visas had expired. Although this doesn't mean that the illegal border
crossing does not happen, the number as estimated by experts are small as
compared to the people who refused to return to the country of their origin.
Similarly, the refugee issue is highly unlikely to yield results as the refugees
already go through a 21-step screening process that takes 18-24 months.
Moreover, the head of the US Citizenship and Immigration Services told Congress
in September 2016 that the refugees have not committed a single act of terrorist
violence since 9/11. A conservative estimate suggests that the wall on the
US-Mexican border could cost $25 billion, and will further required maintenance
charges soaring into billions of dollars. Although the steps might look
promising to the Trump supporters, they can cause a further divide in the US
society - resulting in grand protests against the President whose approval
ratings at a record low. Among the Muslim countries being banned by the US, it
is bombing four of them. Such a step will add no value to fight the terrorism as
the ones travelling to the United States already go through a rigorous visa
process. *

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2017 Daily Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Times

                            January 27, 2017 Friday

Trump's wall

SECTION: Vol. 15 No. 27

LENGTH: 596  words


While many had written off US President Donald Trump's pre-election promises as
political gimmicks, Trump seems to be sticking to them. During his first week in
the office, President Trump has signed a number of executive orders, most
notable of which include withdrawing from the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP),
building a wall along the US border with Mexico, and a crackdown on US cities
that shield illegal immigrant, proceeding quickly on sweeping and divisive plans
to curb immigration and boost national security. The Republican president is
also expected to take steps in the coming days to limit legal immigration,
including executive orders restricting refugees and blocking the issuing of
visas to people from several Muslim-majority Middle Eastern and North African
countries including Syria, Sudan, Somalia, Iraq, Iran, Libya and Yemen.

Stemming illegal immigration and a temporary ban on Muslims to curb terrorism
was the central plank of Trump's election campaign. His signature policy
prescription was to build a wall across the 2,000-mile border between the United
States and Mexico. Some of the borderis already fenced, but Trump says a wall is
needed to stop illegal immigrants entering from Latin America. Experts have
voiced doubts about whether a wall would actually stem illegal immigration, or
if it is worth the billions it would be expected to cost. Along with signing the
executive order, Trump has again promised '100 percent' to make Mexico pay for
the wall, which the Mexican government has out rightly rejected. Moreover, the
executive order to slash the number of refugees allowed to resettle in the
United States, particularly from Syria and other Muslim-majority countries is
expected this week. An estimated 18,000 Syrians have come to the United States
since the refugee crisis. The orders are expected to restrict immigration and
access to the United States for refugees and visa holders from Iraq, Iran,
Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen. Trump is defying the opinions of all the
analysts and sticking to the campaign promises. Moreover, a Republicans
dominated Congress is also unlikely to move against the Presidential orders as a
number of Republicans were already against the illegal immigration as well as
the threat of 'radical Islam'. Analysts have pointed out that a majority of the
illegal immigrants are those who got into the US legally but overstayed after
their visas had expired. Although this doesn't mean that the illegal border
crossing does not happen, the number as estimated by experts are small as
compared to the people who refused to return to the country of their origin.
Similarly, the refugee issue is highly unlikely to yield results as the refugees
already go through a 21-step screening process that takes 18-24 months.
Moreover, the head of the US Citizenship and Immigration Services told Congress
in September 2016 that the refugees have not committed a single act of terrorist
violence since 9/11. A conservative estimate suggests that the wall on the
US-Mexican border could cost $25 billion, and will further required maintenance
charges soaring into billions of dollars. Although the steps might look
promising to the Trump supporters, they can cause a further divide in the US
society - resulting in grand protests against the President whose approval
ratings at a record low. Among the Muslim countries being banned by the US, it
is bombing four of them. Such a step will add no value to fight the terrorism as
the ones travelling to the United States already go through a rigorous visa
process. *

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2017 Daily Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       January 27, 2017 Friday 00:00 EST

The Closing of Trump's America;
Op-Ed Columnist

BYLINE: ROGER COHEN

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 841 words



HIGHLIGHT: A rough translation of "America First" is Muslims last.


Donald Trump is an ahistorical man. He knows nothing of European history and
cares less, as his cavalier trashing of the alliance and union that ushered the
Continent from its darkest hours demonstrates.

He knows little enough of American history to have chosen as his rallying cry "
America First," a slogan with a past clouded by allies-be-damned isolationism at
the start of World War II. (Or perhaps that's why he embraced it.)

The president does not even know the history of the C.I.A., as his
self-regarding speech before the hallowed Memorial Wall showed. This was
desecration of patriotic sacrifice through advanced narcissistic disorder.

He called the speech a "home run."

Great. Terrific. Phenomenal. Tremendous. Fabulous. Beautiful. How Trump has
hollowed out these words. How arid, even nauseating, he has made them. They mean
nothing. They are space-fillers issuing with a thudding regularity from his
uncurious mind, and in the end of course they are all about him. Emptying words
of meaning is an essential step on the road to autocratic rule. People need to
lose their bearings before they prostrate themselves.

From Trump's White House there now seeps a kind of ignorance mixed with
vulgarity and topped with meanness that I find impossible to wash from my skin.
I wake up to its oleaginous texture.

This is worse than had seemed possible: Trump's inexhaustible obsession with the
crowd size at the inauguration; his constant untruths; his perverse inability to
accept that he won the election, to the point that he wants to investigate the
popular vote that he lost; his startling lust for torture, walls, banishment and
carnage.

"The world is a total mess," he told David Muir of ABC. Funny, I travel the
world and that was not my impression a week ago.

The president does not like Muslims. That, too, is clear. It was obvious when he
called during the campaign for a temporary ban on Muslims entering the United
States. It was obvious when he showed contempt for the parents of a fallen
Muslim American soldier killed in Iraq. It is obvious now as he attempts to
justify a planned suspension of visas for Syrians, Iranians, Iraqis and citizens
of four other majority Muslim Middle Eastern and African countries, as well as a
temporary ban on almost all refugees.

A rough translation of "America First" is Muslims last. "It's not the Muslim
ban," Trump insisted to Muir. No. It's just a ban on lots of Muslims.

Trump said, in the ABC interview, that the people to be barred "are going to
come in and cause us tremendous problems." He declared: "They're ISIS."

There is no credible evidence for this wild claim, a smear on entire
populations. (Saudi Arabia, the source of most 9/11 terrorists, is
unsurprisingly not on the list.)

In their overwhelming majority refugees are fleeing violence in their homelands,
not plotting it against the United States. They do not put their little children
in dinghies on the high seas because they have a choice but because they have no
choice.

Screening to get into the United States is already rigorous, one reason only a
tiny fraction of some 5 million Syrian refugees have come here.

A Cato Institute study of refugees admitted to the United States between 1975
and 2015 found that the chance of an American being killed in a terrorist attack
committed by a refugee is 1 in 3.64 billion.

This is policy fed by anger and prejudice, not reason. The wall announcement has
already provoked a damaging clash with Mexico. The proposed visa and refugee
measures are not about keeping America safe. They are conceived to nurture an
atmosphere of nationalist xenophobia.

Trump has been right to call jihadi Islamist terrorism by its name. But
conflating a religion of 1.6 billion people with it is no way to fight it. As
for his promise of safe areas within Syria, we will see.

I am lucky enough to live in Brooklyn Heights with a view out over the East
River to lower Manhattan and the Statue of Liberty. So while watching President
Donald Trump's dark inaugural speech a week ago I was able at the same time to
glance out at the torch that symbolizes American openness and generosity of
spirit.

As Trump's "AMERICA FIRST," "AMERICA FIRST" echoed across my living room I
thought of Emma Lazarus' words inscribed on the pedestal of the statue:

"Give me your tired, your poor,

Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free,

The wretched refuse of your teeming shore."

Friedrich Trump, a penniless German immigrant, was one of those "huddled masses"
back in 1885. Lucky he did not attempt to enter the America taking shape under
his grandson.

Over time, but not without struggle, I believe the ideals represented by the
torch will prove stronger than Trump's fear-filled jingoistic darkness. America
cannot be itself without these ideals, and Americans will fight to preserve
them. It is, after all, how they became who they are.

You can follow me on Twitter (@NYTimesCohen) or join me on Facebook.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2017 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              220 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 27, 2017 Friday

Save the Children Statement on Potential U.S. Executive Order on Suspension of
Refugee Resettlement

LENGTH: 511  words

DATELINE: New York



 California: The Department of Children Federation Organization has issued the
following news release:



 In response to reports of a potential executive action by the United States
Government regarding refugee resettlement, Carolyn Miles, President & CEO of
Save the Children, released the following statement:





 "The United States has long been a beacon of hope for the millions of children
and families trying to escape war and persecution. The world is facing its
largest crisis of displaced people since World War II, with more than 65 million
people forced to flee their homes. More than half of all refugees are children,
whose only chance for survival and a better future relies on access to safety.
We all have a moral obligation to help. Refugee children have been terrorized;
they are not terrorists.



 "I have met with hundreds of refugee families--in the U.S., Germany, and
throughout the Middle East and Africa. I have heard firsthand their stories of
unrelenting war, and triumph over incredible hardship that no one should have to
endure. Nearly every family I've met has told me that their main reason for
fleeing was so their children could have a childhood, an education, and a chance
at a future. Now is not the time to turn our back on these families, or our core
American values, by banning refugees. We can protect our citizens without
putting even more barriers in front of those who have lost everything and want
to build a better future in America.



 "The reality is that the U.S. refugee resettlement program saves lives--namely
of women and children under 12, who make up 67 percent of the Syrian refugees in
the U.S.--while helping to ensure the safety of our country. Refugees already go
through extensive vetting: a refugee's identity is checked against law
enforcement and intelligence databases of at least five federal agencies, a
process that takes nearly two years. If there is any doubt about who a refugee
is, he or she is not admitted to the United States. Save the Children takes no
issue with proposals to further perfect the vetting process to protect our
nation's safety, but we must remember that resettling refugees reinforces our
security by supporting key allies that are disproportionately affected by forced
displacement.



 "The United States should continue to show leadership and share in our global
responsibility to provide refuge to the most vulnerable, regardless of religion
or nationality. Welcoming refugees sends a strong message to groups that want to
do us harm: the United States remains a leading pillar for stability and liberty
in the world.



 "Since its founding in 1919, Save the Children has worked tirelessly to help
millions of refugee children and families--providing lifesaving assistance,
improving access to education and quality healthcare, and protecting children
from exploitation. We are committed to continuing this vital work, regardless of
ethnicity, religion or any other factor."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolution.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 27, 2017 Friday

Trump's Executive Order Will Amount to a Ban on Muslims from the U.S.

LENGTH: 304  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: Institute for Policy Studies has issued the following news release:




 Today the White House is expected to issue an executive order calling for
drastic changes to U.S. refugee, immigration, and visa policies.





 This is the response from Institute for Policy Studies Middle East expert
Phyllis Bennis, who has been analyzing U.S. Middle East and foreign policy for
more than 40 years:



 "This will amount to an executive order to ban Muslims from the United States,
demonizing people from Muslim-majority countries across the Middle East/North
Africa. It is no accident that of the seven countries identified, the U.S.



     is at war in five (Iraq, Syria, Yemen, Libya and Somalia),

     has troops deployed and military bases in another (Sudan), and

     imposes harsh sanctions and frequent threats against the last (Iran).



 These are all policies that fuel refugee flows in the first place. We are
banning refugees from wars that we started.



 If we are serious about taking care of refugees and ending the conditions that
give rise to their plight, we must protect and welcome far more of the 65
million people currently displaced in the world. Simultaneously, we must work to
end the wars that create refugees.



 The order will also call for the Pentagon to create a "safe zone in Syria and
in the region." Almost inevitably, that means launching more airstrikes on the
country -- a recipe for more war and inevitably more refugees.



 The order also violates international law requiring countries to provide refuge
to those in desperate need, and completely reverses the long history of America
's claim -- however often the claim was denied -- to be a country that welcomes
refugees and immigrants."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              222 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 27, 2017 Friday

Save the Children Statement on Potential U.S. Executive Order on Suspension of
Refugee Resettlement

LENGTH: 511  words

DATELINE: New York



 California: The Department of Children Federation Organization has issued the
following news release:



 In response to reports of a potential executive action by the United States
Government regarding refugee resettlement, Carolyn Miles, President & CEO of
Save the Children, released the following statement:





 "The United States has long been a beacon of hope for the millions of children
and families trying to escape war and persecution. The world is facing its
largest crisis of displaced people since World War II, with more than 65 million
people forced to flee their homes. More than half of all refugees are children,
whose only chance for survival and a better future relies on access to safety.
We all have a moral obligation to help. Refugee children have been terrorized;
they are not terrorists.



 "I have met with hundreds of refugee families--in the U.S., Germany, and
throughout the Middle East and Africa. I have heard firsthand their stories of
unrelenting war, and triumph over incredible hardship that no one should have to
endure. Nearly every family I've met has told me that their main reason for
fleeing was so their children could have a childhood, an education, and a chance
at a future. Now is not the time to turn our back on these families, or our core
American values, by banning refugees. We can protect our citizens without
putting even more barriers in front of those who have lost everything and want
to build a better future in America.



 "The reality is that the U.S. refugee resettlement program saves lives--namely
of women and children under 12, who make up 67 percent of the Syrian refugees in
the U.S.--while helping to ensure the safety of our country. Refugees already go
through extensive vetting: a refugee's identity is checked against law
enforcement and intelligence databases of at least five federal agencies, a
process that takes nearly two years. If there is any doubt about who a refugee
is, he or she is not admitted to the United States. Save the Children takes no
issue with proposals to further perfect the vetting process to protect our
nation's safety, but we must remember that resettling refugees reinforces our
security by supporting key allies that are disproportionately affected by forced
displacement.



 "The United States should continue to show leadership and share in our global
responsibility to provide refuge to the most vulnerable, regardless of religion
or nationality. Welcoming refugees sends a strong message to groups that want to
do us harm: the United States remains a leading pillar for stability and liberty
in the world.



 "Since its founding in 1919, Save the Children has worked tirelessly to help
millions of refugee children and families--providing lifesaving assistance,
improving access to education and quality healthcare, and protecting children
from exploitation. We are committed to continuing this vital work, regardless of
ethnicity, religion or any other factor."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolution.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 27, 2017 Friday

Trump's Executive Order Will Amount to a Ban on Muslims from the U.S.

LENGTH: 304  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: Institute for Policy Studies has issued the following news release:




 Today the White House is expected to issue an executive order calling for
drastic changes to U.S. refugee, immigration, and visa policies.





 This is the response from Institute for Policy Studies Middle East expert
Phyllis Bennis, who has been analyzing U.S. Middle East and foreign policy for
more than 40 years:



 "This will amount to an executive order to ban Muslims from the United States,
demonizing people from Muslim-majority countries across the Middle East/North
Africa. It is no accident that of the seven countries identified, the U.S.



     is at war in five (Iraq, Syria, Yemen, Libya and Somalia),

     has troops deployed and military bases in another (Sudan), and

     imposes harsh sanctions and frequent threats against the last (Iran).



 These are all policies that fuel refugee flows in the first place. We are
banning refugees from wars that we started.



 If we are serious about taking care of refugees and ending the conditions that
give rise to their plight, we must protect and welcome far more of the 65
million people currently displaced in the world. Simultaneously, we must work to
end the wars that create refugees.



 The order will also call for the Pentagon to create a "safe zone in Syria and
in the region." Almost inevitably, that means launching more airstrikes on the
country -- a recipe for more war and inevitably more refugees.



 The order also violates international law requiring countries to provide refuge
to those in desperate need, and completely reverses the long history of America
's claim -- however often the claim was denied -- to be a country that welcomes
refugees and immigrants."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           January 26, 2017 Thursday
                                Ontario Edition

IMMIGRATION;
Advocates urge Canada to keep borders open

BYLINE: MICHELLE ZILIO, Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 658 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


Refugee advocates are urging Canada to keep its borders open to the world's most
vulnerable people as U.S. President Donald Trump orders the construction of a
wall with Mexico and cracks down on illegal immigration.

As promised during the election campaign, Mr. Trump signed executive orders
Wednesday to build a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border and strip federal grant
money from "sanctuary" states and cities that shield illegal immigrants.
Canadian refugee advocates say it's critical that Canada continue to welcome
newcomers, especially amid an unprecedented global refugee crisis that has
displaced more than 65 million people.

"It's absolutely devastating news for refugees around the world," said Janet
Dench, executive director of the Canadian Council for Refugees. "What is
happening in the U.S. makes even more important Canada's openness to refugees
because the options are significantly smaller when the U.S. closes its doors."

Without mentioning Mr. Trump or his policies, Immigration Minister Ahmed
Hussen's office said Wednesday that Canada has "always been welcoming of
newcomers and will continue to do so."

Experts say Canada could see an increase in the number of Mexican immigrants and
refugees as a result of Mr. Trump's anti-immigration sentiments and a recent
Canadian policy change.

Mexicans who feel unwelcome in the United States may now be looking a little
farther north to Canada, where the Liberal government lifted a visa requirement
for Mexican travellers just last month. The visa requirement had been in place
since 2009 when the Conservatives imposed it after a rise in invalid refugee
claims from Mexico.

"The spike in Mexican immigration in general, but particularly refugee claims,
is definitely going to happen in Canada," said Toronto-based immigration lawyer
Chantal Desloges. "You couldn't imagine worse timing.

We just lifted the visa requirement and now to have things shut down in the
U.S., that's going to be a definite driver."

The government is prepared to reinstate the visa requirement if the number of
Mexican asylum seekers surpasses 3,500 within any 12-month period.

Conservative immigration critic Michelle Rempel said the Mexican visa issue
could backfire on the Liberals, especially given the fact that they were warned
against it. Immigration department officials opposed the decision last year,
arguing that Mexico's poor human-rights record, high crime rates and low
standard of living would drive Mexican refugee claimants to Canada.

"When the government lifted this visa requirement against the advice of
bureaucrats and public servants without a formal review, I think Canadians
started thinking, 'Why are they doing that?' " Ms. Rempel said.

Chris Friesen, director of settlement services at Immigrant Services Society of
B.C., said his organization is developing contingency plans for a possible
influx of Mexican arrivals, including the preparation of housing and legal
services.

However, Mexican refugee claimants hoping to flee Mr. Trump's America and claim
status in Canada won't be able to do so, because of a special arrangement
between Canada and the United States. Under the Safe Third Country Agreement,
refugee claimants are required to request protection in the first safe country
they arrive in and since the United States is considered a safe country by
Ottawa, they are not allowed to make a claim in Canada after doing so in the
United States. A few exceptions are made for some refugee claimants, such as
unaccompanied minors.

Mexicans aren't Mr. Trump's only target. The President is expected to sign
executive orders in the coming days blocking the issuing of visas to people from
seven Muslim-majority countries in the Middle East and North Africa: Syria,
Sudan, Somalia, Iraq, Iran, Libya and Yemen.

NDP immigration critic Jenny Kwan called on Mr. Hussen to present a plan to
Canadians outlining how the government will address the implications of Mr.
Trump's immigration policies.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2017 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     January 26, 2017 Thursday 1:20 PM GMT

Protesters gather in New York as fear grows over Trump's immigration plans;
Thousands gathered after news broke that Trump intended to sign executive order
to temporarily halt US entry for citizens of Muslim-majority countries

BYLINE: Mazin Sidahmed in New York

SECTION: US NEWS

LENGTH: 777 words


Thousands of New Yorkers gathered in the city's Washington Square Park on
Wednesday night to protest the expected enforcement of a ban on people from
several Muslim-majority countries entering the United States.

Related:  'Sanctuary cities' endangered by Trump order threatening to cut
federal funds

Chants of "No ban, no wall, New Yorkers for all" and "Lock him up!" rang out
through the packed crowd, waving signs that read "I pledge to protect Immigrant
NY," and "Defend Muslim Immigrants."

The march was organized by the New York chapter of the Council of
American-Islamic Relations and featured multiple speakers including local
politicians and activists.

"Mr President, you will not divide us," Congresswoman Nydia Velazquez said to
loud cheers. "You will not divide New York and you will not divide the United
States of America."

"We are here to say no to the politics of fear and we reject policies that turn
our back on those that have already suffered so much."

Protesters at Washington Square Park rally against Trump's Muslim immigration
ban. pic.twitter.com/elEi9NQm5J - Justin Michael (@JstnMchl) January 25, 2017

The protest was organized shortly after news emerged on Tuesday that Donald
Trump intended to sign an executive order that would suspend the resettlement of
Syrian refugees and temporarily halt entry into the country for citizens of
certain Muslim-majority countries in the Middle East and Africa, including
Syria, Iraq and Iran.

The move was widely seen as a fulfillment of Trump's previous pledge to
implement a ban on Muslims entering the country.

The executive order is expected to be signed later this week. The Guardian has
obtained a draft copy of the order which has been circulating among immigration
lawyers.

The draft - which may yet be amended before it is signed by the president - is
titled, "Protecting the Nation from Terrorist Attacks by Foreign Nationals." It
includes a 120-day ban on refugees being resettled in the US and an indefinite
ban on the resettlement of Syrian refugees. It would also cap the total number
of refugees entering the US in 2017 to 50,000 - more than half the previous
year's figure of 117,000. The US has traditionally been the global leader in
refugee resettlement and historically, the program has received bipartisan
support and is an element of US foreign policy. The United Nations' refugee
agency estimates that there are currently 4.81 million Syrian refugees in
Syria's neighboring countries.

According to the draft, visas will be suspended to people from Iraq, Libya,
Somalia, Sudan, Syria, Yemen and Iran for the next 30 days. The countries were
selected from Division O, Title II, Section 203 of the 2016 Consolidated
Appropriations Act, which was passed in the aftermath of San Bernardino and
Paris Attacks and removed visa waivers for EU citizens who were dual nationals
of the listed countries.

The draft order states that 60 days after it will be signed, the Department of
Homeland Security and state department will issue a list of countries to be
included in a more permanent ban.

Trump pledged in December 2015 to ban all muslims from entering the country. He
later amended this promise, and instead called repeatedly for the " extreme
vetting " of immigrants from certain countries.

"The ban itself is a Muslim ban," said Abed Ayoub, legal and policy director of
the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee (ADC). "If you take a look at
the countries it's clearly a muslim ban."

Related:  Trump signs order to begin Mexico border wall in immigration crackdown

Trump signed an executive order on Wednesday to begin construction on his
controversial wall on the US-Mexico border. The order also included a pledge to
cut federal funding from so-called "sanctuary cities" a term which refers to
cities where local law authorities do not cooperate with federal requests that
could lead to deportation.

New York considers itself a sanctuary city, and local leaders, including Mayor
Bill de Blasio, have repeatedly pledged to remain that way. New York City
councilwoman Helen Rosenthal repeated that pledge on Wednesday: "We are prepared
to run this city without a single federal dollar," she said to loud cheers.

Back in New York's Washington Square Park, people lit the park up with their
cell phones and others held candles and speakers, standing under the famous arch
chanting and cheering while helicopters swirled above.

"I am here because I feel like I have a responsibility to give back to my
community, give back to my Muslim brothers and sisters," high school senior
Hebah Jamal said. "To be able to be part of a movement against hate, against
fear, and against discrimination."

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2017 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           Cape Argus (South Africa)

                           January 18, 2017 Wednesday
                                   E1 Edition

'No one does the journey twice';
African refugees brave Latin American jungles to reach US

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 422 words


AS EUROPE tightens its immigration regulations, many refugees fleeing conflicts
in African countries deemed "safe" by the EU, are now attempting to make it to
the US through dangerous jungle routes.

Ahmed Ali Hassan was one of 100 refugees, many African, being smuggled in a
truck through Nicaragua last month. He said he had used a rock to make a hole in
the container to breathe as the overcrowded truck drove through the jungle.

"We all thought we were going to die," Hassan, a 24-year-old university student
from Somalia who used a fake name, recalled. "We were not treated with dignity."

Hassan paid a human smuggler $1000 (R13586) to guide him through Central America
to reach Mexico in the hope of crossing into the US. He is lucky. In October,
immigration officials in Mexico's Veracruz state found four refugees dead in a
truck that smugglers had abandoned. Most of those refugees said the worst part
of the journey was the six-day-long trip across the Darien Gap, a mountainous
rainforest that straddles Colombia and Panama.

Another African refugee, Chofong Betrand and two friends from Cameroon,
survived. Betrand, one of Cameroon's minority English-speaking people, said he
had been jailed by state security forces. "We want independence. French
Cameroons take everything," the 21-year-old university student said. "There's
fighting. They don't want to give us our independence," he said, as he queued
for three hours outside a Mexican migration office hoping to get a temporary
20-day permit.

The hardest bit of the journey is yet to come. Migrants still have to reach the
US border, and then cross it without getting stopped by border agents.

"A mighty hand is guiding us," Betrand said. "No one does the journey twice."

The routes to Europe have become more difficult, said Claudette Walls, head of
the field office for the International Organisation for Migration in Tapachula,
Mexico.

"What's happening in the Mediterranean is that it's becoming more and more
hazardous and difficult to take that route," she said. "Through Latin America,
coming all the way up to Mexico and then on to the US has become another route."

Many refugees from Africa fly to Ecuador and Brazil where few visa restrictions
allow an easy point of entry into the Americas. Last year, Mexico recorded a
500+percent increase in African migrants and refugees crossing to the US border.
Between January and August 2015, Mexico registered 1[0/00]513 citizens from
African countries, but last year - for the same period - 7[0/00]366 were
registered. - Reuters

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CA


                Copyright 2017 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           Cape Times (South Africa)

                           January 18, 2017 Wednesday
                                   E1 Edition

Africans brave jungles to get to US

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 457 words


AS EUROPE tightens its immigration regulations, many refugees fleeing conflicts
in African countries which are deemed "safe countries" by the EU, are now
attempting to make it to the US through dangerous jungle routes.

Ahmed Ali Hassan was one of 100 refugees, many from Africa, who were being
smuggled in a truck through rural Nicaragua last month.

He said he used a rock to make a small hole in the side of the container truck
in order to breathe as the overcrowded truck drove through the jungle.

"We all thought we were going to die," Hassan, a 24-year-old university student
from Somalia, who used a fake name, recalled. "We were not treated with
dignity."

Hassan had paid a human smuggler $1â[#x20ac][0/00]000 (R13â[#x20ac][0/00]460) to
guide him overland through Central America to reach Mexico in the hope of
crossing into the US. He is lucky not to have suffocated. In October,
immigration officials in Mexico's Veracruz state found four refugees dead in a
truck that smugglers had abandoned. Most of the refugees in that truck said the
worst part of the journey was the six-day-long trip across the Darien Gap, a
mountainous rainforest that straddles Colombia and Panama.

Another African refugee, Chofong Betrand and two friends from Cameroon, also
survived the jungle odyssey. Betrand, who belongs to Cameroon's minority
English-speaking people, said he was briefly jailed by state security forces.

"We want independence. French Cameroons take everything for themselves," the
21-year-old university student said. "There's fighting. They don't want to give
us our independence," Betrand said, as he queued for three hours outside a
Mexican migration office hoping to get a temporary 20-day permit.

The hardest bit of the journey is yet to come. Migrants still have to reach the
US border, and then cross it without getting stopped by border agents.

"A mighty hand is guiding us," Betrand said. "No one does this journey twice."

The routes to Europe have become more difficult, said Claudette Walls, head of
the field office for the International Organisation for Migration in the Mexican
city of Tapachula.

"What's happening in the Mediterranean is that it's becoming more and more
hazardous and difficult to take that route," she said. "Through Latin America,
coming all the way up to Mexico and then on to the US has become another route."

Many refugees from Africa fly to Ecuador and Brazil where few visa restrictions
allow an easy point of entry into the Americas. Last year, Mexico recorded a
500â[#x20ac]+percent increase in African migrants and refugees crossing the
country toward the US border. Between January and August 2015, Mexico registered
1â[#x20ac][0/00]513 citizens from African countries, but last year - for the
same period - 7â[#x20ac][0/00]366 people were registered. - Reuters

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


                Copyright 2017 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           The Mercury (South Africa)

                           January 18, 2017 Wednesday
                                   E1 Edition

Africans brave jungles to get to US

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 457 words


AS EUROPE tightens its immigration regulations, many refugees fleeing conflicts
in African countries which are deemed "safe countries" by the EU, are now
attempting to make it to the US through dangerous jungle routes.

Ahmed Ali Hassan was one of 100 refugees, many from Africa, who were being
smuggled in a truck through rural Nicaragua last month.

He said he used a rock to make a small hole in the side of the container truck
in order to breathe as the overcrowded truck drove through the jungle.

"We all thought we were going to die," Hassan, a 24-year-old university student
from Somalia, who used a fake name, recalled. "We were not treated with
dignity."

Hassan had paid a human smuggler $1â[#x20ac][0/00]000 (R13â[#x20ac][0/00]460) to
guide him overland through Central America to reach Mexico in the hope of
crossing into the US. He is lucky not to have suffocated. In October,
immigration officials in Mexico's Veracruz state found four refugees dead in a
truck that smugglers had abandoned. Most of the refugees in that truck said the
worst part of the journey was the six-day-long trip across the Darien Gap, a
mountainous rainforest that straddles Colombia and Panama.

Another African refugee, Chofong Betrand and two friends from Cameroon, also
survived the jungle odyssey. Betrand, who belongs to Cameroon's minority
English-speaking people, said he was briefly jailed by state security forces.

"We want independence. French Cameroons take everything for themselves," the
21-year-old university student said. "There's fighting. They don't want to give
us our independence," Betrand said, as he queued for three hours outside a
Mexican migration office hoping to get a temporary 20-day permit.

The hardest bit of the journey is yet to come. Migrants still have to reach the
US border, and then cross it without getting stopped by border agents.

"A mighty hand is guiding us," Betrand said. "No one does this journey twice."

The routes to Europe have become more difficult, said Claudette Walls, head of
the field office for the International Organisation for Migration in the Mexican
city of Tapachula.

"What's happening in the Mediterranean is that it's becoming more and more
hazardous and difficult to take that route," she said. "Through Latin America,
coming all the way up to Mexico and then on to the US has become another route."

Many refugees from Africa fly to Ecuador and Brazil where few visa restrictions
allow an easy point of entry into the Americas. Last year, Mexico recorded a
500â[#x20ac]+percent increase in African migrants and refugees crossing the
country toward the US border. Between January and August 2015, Mexico registered
1â[#x20ac][0/00]513 citizens from African countries, but last year - for the
same period - 7â[#x20ac][0/00]366 people were registered. - Reuters

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NM


                Copyright 2017 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           The Mercury (South Africa)

                           January 18, 2017 Wednesday
                                   E1 Edition

Africans brave jungles to get to US

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 457 words


AS EUROPE tightens its immigration regulations, many refugees fleeing conflicts
in African countries which are deemed "safe countries" by the EU, are now
attempting to make it to the US through dangerous jungle routes.

Ahmed Ali Hassan was one of 100 refugees, many from Africa, who were being
smuggled in a truck through rural Nicaragua last month.

He said he used a rock to make a small hole in the side of the container truck
in order to breathe as the overcrowded truck drove through the jungle.

"We all thought we were going to die," Hassan, a 24-year-old university student
from Somalia, who used a fake name, recalled. "We were not treated with
dignity."

Hassan had paid a human smuggler $1â[#x20ac][0/00]000 (R13â[#x20ac][0/00]460) to
guide him overland through Central America to reach Mexico in the hope of
crossing into the US. He is lucky not to have suffocated. In October,
immigration officials in Mexico's Veracruz state found four refugees dead in a
truck that smugglers had abandoned. Most of the refugees in that truck said the
worst part of the journey was the six-day-long trip across the Darien Gap, a
mountainous rainforest that straddles Colombia and Panama.

Another African refugee, Chofong Betrand and two friends from Cameroon, also
survived the jungle odyssey. Betrand, who belongs to Cameroon's minority
English-speaking people, said he was briefly jailed by state security forces.

"We want independence. French Cameroons take everything for themselves," the
21-year-old university student said. "There's fighting. They don't want to give
us our independence," Betrand said, as he queued for three hours outside a
Mexican migration office hoping to get a temporary 20-day permit.

The hardest bit of the journey is yet to come. Migrants still have to reach the
US border, and then cross it without getting stopped by border agents.

"A mighty hand is guiding us," Betrand said. "No one does this journey twice."

The routes to Europe have become more difficult, said Claudette Walls, head of
the field office for the International Organisation for Migration in the Mexican
city of Tapachula.

"What's happening in the Mediterranean is that it's becoming more and more
hazardous and difficult to take that route," she said. "Through Latin America,
coming all the way up to Mexico and then on to the US has become another route."

Many refugees from Africa fly to Ecuador and Brazil where few visa restrictions
allow an easy point of entry into the Americas. Last year, Mexico recorded a
500â[#x20ac]+percent increase in African migrants and refugees crossing the
country toward the US border. Between January and August 2015, Mexico registered
1â[#x20ac][0/00]513 citizens from African countries, but last year - for the
same period - 7â[#x20ac][0/00]366 people were registered. - Reuters

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NM


                Copyright 2017 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          Pretoria News (South Africa)

                           January 18, 2017 Wednesday
                                   E1 Edition

Africans brave jungles to get to US

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 457 words


AS EUROPE tightens its immigration regulations, many refugees fleeing conflicts
in African countries which are deemed "safe countries" by the EU, are now
attempting to make it to the US through dangerous jungle routes.

Ahmed Ali Hassan was one of 100 refugees, many from Africa, who were being
smuggled in a truck through rural Nicaragua last month.

He said he used a rock to make a small hole in the side of the container truck
in order to breathe as the overcrowded truck drove through the jungle.

"We all thought we were going to die," Hassan, a 24-year-old university student
from Somalia, who used a fake name, recalled. "We were not treated with
dignity."

Hassan had paid a human smuggler $1â[#x20ac][0/00]000 (R13â[#x20ac][0/00]460) to
guide him overland through Central America to reach Mexico in the hope of
crossing into the US. He is lucky not to have suffocated. In October,
immigration officials in Mexico's Veracruz state found four refugees dead in a
truck that smugglers had abandoned. Most of the refugees in that truck said the
worst part of the journey was the six-day-long trip across the Darien Gap, a
mountainous rainforest that straddles Colombia and Panama.

Another African refugee, Chofong Betrand and two friends from Cameroon, also
survived the jungle odyssey. Betrand, who belongs to Cameroon's minority
English-speaking people, said he was briefly jailed by state security forces.

"We want independence. French Cameroons take everything for themselves," the
21-year-old university student said. "There's fighting. They don't want to give
us our independence," Betrand said, as he queued for three hours outside a
Mexican migration office hoping to get a temporary 20-day permit.

The hardest bit of the journey is yet to come. Migrants still have to reach the
US border, and then cross it without getting stopped by border agents.

"A mighty hand is guiding us," Betrand said. "No one does this journey twice."

The routes to Europe have become more difficult, said Claudette Walls, head of
the field office for the International Organisation for Migration in the Mexican
city of Tapachula.

"What's happening in the Mediterranean is that it's becoming more and more
hazardous and difficult to take that route," she said. "Through Latin America,
coming all the way up to Mexico and then on to the US has become another route."

Many refugees from Africa fly to Ecuador and Brazil where few visa restrictions
allow an easy point of entry into the Americas. Last year, Mexico recorded a
500â[#x20ac]+percent increase in African migrants and refugees crossing the
country toward the US border. Between January and August 2015, Mexico registered
1â[#x20ac][0/00]513 citizens from African countries, but last year - for the
same period - 7â[#x20ac][0/00]366 people were registered. - Reuters

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PN


                Copyright 2017 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              231 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                            The Star (South Africa)

                           January 18, 2017 Wednesday
                                   E1 Edition

Africans brave jungles to get to US

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 457 words


AS EUROPE tightens its immigration regulations, many refugees fleeing conflicts
in African countries which are deemed "safe countries" by the EU, are now
attempting to make it to the US through dangerous jungle routes.

Ahmed Ali Hassan was one of 100 refugees, many from Africa, who were being
smuggled in a truck through rural Nicaragua last month.

He said he used a rock to make a small hole in the side of the container truck
in order to breathe as the overcrowded truck drove through the jungle.

"We all thought we were going to die," Hassan, a 24-year-old university student
from Somalia, who used a fake name, recalled. "We were not treated with
dignity."

Hassan had paid a human smuggler $1â[#x20ac][0/00]000 (R13â[#x20ac][0/00]460) to
guide him overland through Central America to reach Mexico in the hope of
crossing into the US. He is lucky not to have suffocated. In October,
immigration officials in Mexico's Veracruz state found four refugees dead in a
truck that smugglers had abandoned. Most of the refugees in that truck said the
worst part of the journey was the six-day-long trip across the Darien Gap, a
mountainous rainforest that straddles Colombia and Panama.

Another African refugee, Chofong Betrand and two friends from Cameroon, also
survived the jungle odyssey. Betrand, who belongs to Cameroon's minority
English-speaking people, said he was briefly jailed by state security forces.

"We want independence. French Cameroons take everything for themselves," the
21-year-old university student said. "There's fighting. They don't want to give
us our independence," Betrand said, as he queued for three hours outside a
Mexican migration office hoping to get a temporary 20-day permit.

The hardest bit of the journey is yet to come. Migrants still have to reach the
US border, and then cross it without getting stopped by border agents.

"A mighty hand is guiding us," Betrand said. "No one does this journey twice."

The routes to Europe have become more difficult, said Claudette Walls, head of
the field office for the International Organisation for Migration in the Mexican
city of Tapachula.

"What's happening in the Mediterranean is that it's becoming more and more
hazardous and difficult to take that route," she said. "Through Latin America,
coming all the way up to Mexico and then on to the US has become another route."

Many refugees from Africa fly to Ecuador and Brazil where few visa restrictions
allow an easy point of entry into the Americas. Last year, Mexico recorded a
500â[#x20ac]+percent increase in African migrants and refugees crossing the
country toward the US border. Between January and August 2015, Mexico registered
1â[#x20ac][0/00]513 citizens from African countries, but last year - for the
same period - 7â[#x20ac][0/00]366 people were registered. - Reuters

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SW


                Copyright 2017 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                             January 2, 2017 Monday
                              MON REGIONAL Edition

Refugees find safe haven in Boy Scouts

BYLINE: Thomas Peipert

SECTION: ASECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 770 words


EVERGREEN Boy Scouts Jean Tuyishime and Moise Tuyikunde sit around a crackling
campfire under a canopy of stars, joking and teasing each other as adolescent
brothers tend to do. Only 2 1/2 years ago, they were a world away, living at the
crowded Gihembe refugee camp, built on a sprawling and dusty expanse of northern
Rwanda.

The brothers were born in the camp after their parents fled violence in 1996 in
what was then known as Zaire. They relocated with their family to the Denver
area in 2014, and they gradually assimilated into their new surroundings,
learning to speak enough English to get by and signing up for a quintessential
American experience Boy Scouts.

But the troop Jean, 15, and Moise, 12, joined is not like many others in the
United States. Troop 1532 is composed almost entirely of refugees who hail from
far flung places such as Burma, Rwanda and Nepal.

At campouts, traditional American food such as hot dogs and trail burgers is
replaced by fish head stew, fire roasted corn and Chatpate, a popular Nepalese
street snack. S'mores are still a staple.

While the troop deals with challenges and problems unique to the refugee
population, its leaders say it also helps kids adjust to American culture while
providing an additional refuge.

"It's somewhere where they can be totally unafraid to be their authentic self,"
said Justin Wilson, one of the troop's leaders and the executive director of the
nonprofit group Scouts for Equality.

The political climate seems stacked against refugees and immigrants in general,
he said at the recent campout, where multiple languages filled the air and
Scouts kicked a soccer ball between several well worn A frame tents.

"I think it's really important for them to see that people care about them, that
people are going out of their way to provide a service for refugees," Wilson
said.

Troop 1532, formed in 2014, also provides a blueprint for other Boy Scout groups
to attract some of the tens of thousands of refugees who could make the United
States home in the coming years.

It's unclear how many of the nation's 2.3 million Scouts are refugees, but "few
programs are as equipped to help children learn and embrace American culture,"
Effie Delimarkos, a Boy Scouts of America spokeswoman, said.

"Scouting also helps build resiliency in children that have lived through more
than any child should have to bear," she said, noting the organization
emphasizes "duty to country and proactive citizenship."

But Wilson and Dr. P.J. Parmar, a physician who started the troop in conjunction
with a refugee clinic he runs in the Denver area, say the kids' varied
backgrounds present unique challenges that more homogenous troops don't face.

Difficulties keeping adult leaders and maintaining membership make it hard to
focus on earning merit badges and advancing in rank.

"Almost none of these guys know what an Eagle Scout is. Their parents certainly
don't," Wilson said.

Compounding that, many of those parents moved to the U.S. with very little
money. They work long, odd hours, which makes it hard to plan meetings. Parmar,
who recruits kids through his clinic, said many of the Scouts have no reliable
way to get to the meetings, so he decided to gather only for camping trips.

Then there's instilling discipline and respect in the Scouts, some of whom are
still adjusting to a new culture.

On the late summer camping trip, several Scouts were caught smoking cigarettes
and marijuana, and at summer camp near Colorado Springs, some were accused of
theft.

"I think a lot of it, especially at summer camp, is they're under a microscope,"
Wilson said. "They're not a white, suburban troop. So if they do anything, it's
going to get noticed, where if another kid does it, it might slip under the
radar."

Parmar says he tries to connect with the boys by speaking on their level.

"I have an advantage because I'm from a minority background," he said. He often
tells the boys, "The bar is a little bit higher for you guys because you don't
get the benefit of the doubt in this society."

Jean's father, Jean Batacoka, a 37 year old housekeeper with five children, says
the efforts of Wilson and Parmar have had a meaningful effect on his kids.

"What they do down there is not just leadership, because they learn discipline,
how to behave, how to respect people who are older than them," he said through a
Kinyarwanda translator. "I think it's a really good thing for them, and I can
see something is happening."

For his son Jean, that quality seems to have taken root and could serve a
generation to come.

"I want to grow up and be a leader like P.J. and Justin so I can help other
kids," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 05, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Justin Mbelechi, 13, and Bidesh Magar, 14, far right, roast corn at
their campsite in Evergreen. The two belong to a Boy Scout troop in Colorado
that is made up almost entirely of refugees. Thomas Peipert, The Associated
Press
Justin Mbelechi, a 13-year-old refugee from Africa, jumps through the frigid
water of Echo Lake, south of Idaho Springs. He is a member of Colorado Boy Scout
Troop 1532, which is made up almost entirely of refugees. Photos by Thomas
Peipert, The Associated Press
Scouts and leaders from Troop 1532 pose for a group photo in Evergreen after a
camping trip.
Jean Tuyishime, 15, center, and brother Moise Tuyikunde, 12, right, relax in a
hammock at their campsite in Evergreen. The brothers were born in a refugee camp
in Rwanda after their parents fled violence in 1996 in what was then known as
Zaire. They relocated with their family to the Denver area in 2014.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2017 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              233 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The New Nation (Bangladesh)

                            December 18, 2016 Sunday

Migrant deaths worldwide top 7,100 - over half in the Med

LENGTH: 940 words

DATELINE: Dhaka


Dhaka, Dec. 18 -- Switzerland - IOM is reporting today (16/12) 7,189 migrants
and refugees have died or remain missing on world migratory routes. This is the
highest yearly number IOM has ever recorded, and represents an average of 20
deaths per day, suggesting the deaths of another

200-300 men, women and children well may be recorded worldwide before 2016 comes
to an end.

This week's number of migrant deaths recorded globally in 2016 was compiled by
IOM's Missing Migrants Project and Global Migration Data Analysis Centre. By
comparison, total fatalities compiled by IOM in 2014 (5,267) and 2015 (5,740)
both fell hundreds of victims short of the 6,000 mark, a figure that was
surpassed this year before the end of November.

As in the previous two years, the number of deaths on the three principal
Mediterranean routes linking North Africa and the Middle East with Europe
accounted for over 60 percent of all deaths worldwide.

IOM reports the number of migrants recorded as dead or missing and presumed dead
- appears to be rising across all regions, including the Mediterranean, Northern
and Southern Africa, as well as in Central America and in the United States
-Mexico border region. Each already has surpassed those recorded in these
regions through all of 2015, according to recent IOM data.

For Eastern and Northern Africa, the Missing Migrants Project relies on the work
of the Regional Mixed Migration Secretariat's ("RMMS") Mixed Migration
Monitoring Mechanism Initiative ("4Mi"), which surveys migrants from Eritrea,
Ethiopia, Djibouti and Somalia. Data collection monitors in migration hubs in 13
countries across Europe and Africa ask migrants in transit a variety of
questions to do with their journey, including whether they have witnessed the
deaths of other migrants along the way.

The findings of 4Mi's survey indicates that over 700 migrants from Eritrea,
Ethiopia, Djibouti and Somalia have died during migration in 2016.

These deaths are due to vehicle accidents, violent attacks and other harm
associated with a lack of access to medicines, shelter, food and water during
their journey. The majority of these deaths occurred in Sudan, Egypt and Libya.

It is likely that many more deaths go unrecorded by any official government or
humanitarian aid agency. But they often are recorded by migrants themselves.

Among IOM's most important sources of information are testimonies of other
migrants, who are videotaping these daily tragedies on cell phones, or alerting
family members and friends of the deceased via Facebook posts and other social
media. Mining these veins of information IOM's Missing Migrants team this year
discovered hundreds of victims in Latin America, off the coast of Yemen or on
lonely highways across Africa.

In Latin America, there have been 90 more deaths recorded by the Missing
Migrants Project than by the same time in 2015. News emerged this week that so
far in 2016, at least six people drowned off the coast of Mazatlan, in Chiapas,
Mexico, where migrants board smuggling boats and head north towards the United
States. The Darien Gap, between Colombia and Panama, has also seen at least 30
people die while migrating so far in 2016, many of whom were Cuban.

In Texas, where a record 176 bodies have been recovered along the Mexican border
in 2016, there is a new effort to try to help identify those who have died in
the desert, with the project by the Texas Observer, called "I have a name/Yo
tengo un nombre". Belongings and pieces of clothing left with the deceased have
been photographed and added to the project's database in the hope that some of
them may be recognized.

Although increasing attention brought to the issue of the migrant deaths is
helping to improve information gathering, the data in themselves indicate the
high risks that people can face in their journey to find a better life, and that
there are significant challenges to the UN's call for "safe migration".

Meanwhile IOM reports that 357,249 migrants and refugees entered Europe by sea
in 2016 through 14 December, arriving mostly in Greece and Italy, compared with
883,393 through the end of November 2015.

Some 178,802 people have arrived by sea in Italy in 2016 - more than in either
2014 or 2015. Some 172,813 migrants and refugees arrived by sea in Greece during
the same period, far fewer than in 2015.

IOM Rome's Flavio Di Giacomo reported Thursday that 2,124 migrants have been
rescued since IOM's last report earlier this week. He added that on Wednesday
Italian authorities reported another shipwreck, which claimed at least 20
victims. Survivors were brought to the port of Augusta.

The total number of migrant and refugee fatalities in the Mediterranean since
the beginning of 2016 as of late Thursday was 4,812. IOM Libya reports this
includes the deaths since 5 December of some 51 people whose bodies were
retrieved from six different incidents in three separate locations, mostly near
Tajoura, outside Tripoli, Libya.

Information received by IOM Friday morning indicates an additional 87 victims
are feared missing after a boat carrying 114 was reported sank off the coast of
Zawiya, Libya. The Libyan Coast Guard reportedly rescued 27 from that incident.

An additional single body was found Thursday in Zawiya. If confirmed, the
addition of these 88 victims would bring the total number of people lost in the
Mediterranean to at least 4,900 through the first 50 weeks of 2016 - just under
100 victims per week.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The New Nation. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 The New Nation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              234 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                   Iran Daily

                            December 16, 2016 Friday

IOM says refugee death toll nears 7,200 in 2016

LENGTH: 306  words


The number of refugees feared to have died this year has approached the figure
of 7,200, showing more than a 20-percent increase compared to 2015, says the
International Organization for Migration (IOM).

The organization said on Friday that 7,189 refugees had either died or remained
missing on the routes taken by asylum-seekers around the world.

The IOM said on average 20 refugees die each day.

Another 200 to 300 people could perish by the end of the year if the trend
continues, the Geneva-based IOM warned.

The perilous sea routes across the Mediterranean remain by far the world's
deadliest, the IOM said, adding that half of those deaths are related to the
routes across the Mediterranean.

As of late Thursday, the IOM said 4,812 people had lost their lives in the
Mediterranean Sea trying to reach the European countries of Italy, Greece,
Cyprus and Spain since the beginning of 2016.

The IOM said this number was likely already outdated, pointing to information it
had received on Friday indicating that another 88 people were feared missing
after a boat carrying 114 was reported sunk off the coast of Zawiya in Libya.

In 2015, 3,567 people had died trying to cross the Mediterranean.

The surge this year in the refugees' death toll comes amid a drop by more than
half in the number of refugees who arrived on the European continent, falling
from 883,393 in 2015 to only 357,249 this year, the IOM said.

There has been a surge in the number of refugees dying along the routes in
northern and southern Africa, Central and Latin America and at the United States
-Mexico border, the IOM said.

The refugees' deaths are due to unworthy sea vessels, accidents and attacks, in
addition to the lack of medicine, shelter, food and water during their journey.

The IOM said the death toll is most probably much higher as many incidents go
unrecorded.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1056


                 Copyright 2016 Iran Cultural & Press Institute
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


                              235 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                            December 11, 2016 Sunday
                              SUN PERSPECT Edition

No room at the inn?

BYLINE: Bruce Finley

SECTION: PERSPECT; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 1424 words


When Syrian high school English teacher Ishan Moazzen, one of the world's 65
million uprooted people, faced conscription into President Bashar Assad's army,
he fled his home in the battered city of Aleppo and reached Turkey.

"I could be dead now. Or I could be captured and held in a Free Syria prison,"
Moazzen, 30, said in an Istanbul backstreet where he was tending shop, selling
saffron and candies to veiled Saudi Arabian tourists.

If he stayed in Syria, as a soldier, he could have been ordered to fire on
fellow Syrians in the war, he said. "I would have to shoot or be shot."

But his morality based move has proved punishing.

A migration crisis is shaking governments. And a backlash against refugees
(Central Americans fleeing for U.S. cities such as Denver, Syrians and others
aiming for Europe and North America) increasingly impedes their search for
safety.

Once receptive nations such as Sweden, fearing overwhelming masses in cities,
hold asylum seekers in isolated rural camps. Australia detains asylum seekers
for years on a South Pacific island, Nauru shrugging off human rights criticism.

The U.S. Department of Homeland Security imprisons Honduran, Guatemalan and El
Salvadoran women and children who fled persecution by gangs. U.S. officials now
hold some asylum seekers in a third country, Costa Rica, while backlogged
applications are processed.

President elect Donald Trump has vowed he will build more walls, register
Muslims, and bar resettlement of more refugees in the United States, unless
security vetting, to weed out terrorists, is increased, even though multiple
federal agencies already investigate refugees before they board planes to
assigned cities.

United Nations officials bristle at the backlash.

"Access to safety for persons in need of international protection in the region
(Turkey) and beyond is crucial," UN High Commission for Refugees spokesman Selin
Unal said. "We need all countries to keep their borders open for purposes of
protection and asylum and to provide much needed opportunities for those Syrians
in need of humanitarian admissions beyond the immediate region."

This fall, UN leaders held a first global refugee summit. They proposed to bring
countries together to hash out a coordinated approach that shares burdens, but
member states, including the United States, balked at taking any action.

No matter how this plays out, the pressures uprooting people probably won't go
away. Environmental change may churn out more refugees.

In our world, people have been migrating since before nations were formed. So
what does it mean now if the world's neediest people can't find safe space to
resettle?

Moazzen lamented that, after two years scrambling to survive in Istanbul with
Europe and the United States looking inhospitable, he was considering crossing
back into Syria. Bombing in Aleppo was intensifying last summer as we spoke.

"It feels really bad," he said, comparing himself to the fisherman in his
favorite book, Ernest Hemingway's "Old Man and the Sea."

Turkey stands out. It is struggling to absorb 3 million refugees from
neighboring Syria. Thousands sleep on streets. Thousands more cram into
abandoned buildings, squatting. Many need health care. Few speak the language.
Children toil in sweatshops so their families can eat. Turkey issues few work
permits and grants "temporary protection" rather than recognize legal refugee
status.

Turkish officials are tracking Syrians, requiring credit card sized paper ID
cards for access to limited health care and schools. They've registered 400,000
in Istanbul (population 14 million) and International Organization of Migration
officials say many more likely reside in the city. The situation is comparable
to a surge of 80,000 non English speakers into metro Denver more than all annual
refugee admissions into the United States.

European Union officials have been pressing Turkey to act as a buffer,
preventing mass uncontrolled migration into Europe. After 2015, when more than 1
million Syrians and Africans entered Europe at a time when terrorism linked to
immigrants was rising, the EU negotiated to pay Turkey $6 billion if it accepted
refugees turned back from Greece.

Being Europe's buffer against migrants presents one more challenge for Turkey, a
nation already teetering on the cusp of so much: tradition vs. modernity,
secular vs. religion, democracy vs. dictatorial rule.

When I was in Turkey, during the purges the week after the bloody failed coup in
July, Turkish officials indicated they might reject the deal unless Europe paid
the $6 billion as promised and granted Turks benefits including visa free travel
in Europe.

The surge in migration looms so large at UN headquarters that the replacement
for retiring Secretary General Ban Ki moon will be the former UN High
Commissioner for Refugees Antonio Guterres who has focused on migration since
2005.

Here are the key trends:

*More uprooted people Beyond the wars in Syria and Iraq and unrest in Africa
that are churning out record numbers of refugees, UN agencies predict climate
change will uproot millions more. The UN estimates 22.5 million people a year
were displaced since 2008 due, in part, to natural disasters and climate related
factors. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the UN's global science
advisory board, projects an accelerating increase. "People are twice as likely
to be displaced now than they were in the 1970s," the IPCC said in a recent
report. "Unless strong climate mitigation and adaptation measures are
implemented worldwide, alongside disaster preparedness and disaster risk
reduction measures, this trend is expected to increase."

*Burden shifts to cities Migrants increasingly shun borderland tent camps and
move into cities because of perceived better opportunities to meet basic needs
and move on. In Turkey, fewer than than 10 percent of the Syrian refugees have
stayed in refugee camps.

*Closing doors in the U.S., Australia and Europe Countries that traditionally
absorbed the most migrants increasingly restrict access. Nationalist backlash
movements in Sweden, Norway, Germany and France are forcing leaders to close
doors. British Prime Minister Theresa May, after the "Brexit" driven in part by
anti migrant sentiments, said migrants ought to be kept in countries they flee
into first such as Turkey.

*Rising security worries The terrorist bombing at Istanbul's airport, after the
attacks in Paris linked to Islamic State militants, has piqued security
concerns. UN officials have agreed to cooperate with national authorities to
conduct more careful screening of migrants who claim to be refugees. "It's
always possible that people that enter countries as refugees commit crimes and,
when somebody does that, the person has to be pursued according to the principle
of criminal law," UNHCR spokesman Unal said. "The fact that they are refugees
does not exempt them at all from national law. But it would be dangerous to
generalize and to say that because one refugee, or a few, have done something
wrong that all refugees are criminals. It's important to remember refugees are
fleeing for their lives."

For Moazzen, frustration sets in as tourists come and go and he feels his life
slipping away. The land of the free that produced Hemingway no longer appears to
be an option, he reckoned, saying he's heard that an application for asylum in
the United States would require evidence he'd be killed within hours if returned
to Syria.

He shook his head. The claim that Syrians fleeing war may be dangerous Islamic
State sympathizers "is pretext" for rejecting refugees, he said. Islamic State
fighters in Syria and Iraq often are disaffected immigrants from Europe or North
America, not Syrians, he said.

Another Syrian stuck here Samer Alkadri, 42, who fled Damascus via Jordan with
his wife and children said he now views Europeans who want Turkey to be their
buffer and Americans who reject refugees as morally bankrupt.

He's given up trying to move on. Instead, he said he'll make the best of being
marooned in a crowded Fatih neighborhood in Istanbul next to ruins of a
Byzantine church. Alkadri founded the Pages Bookstore Cafe, catering to the
growing numbers of Arabic speaking refugees, with a play area for kids and
aspirations of becoming an oasis for cultural mixing. The idea is to be second
home that gives intellectual sustenance to refugees who increasingly are left in
limbo.

Pages reflects a spirit of humanity at a time when too many people turn their
backs, Alkadri said.

"We need a new system," he said. "for humanity."

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A boy plays in a puddle at a makeshift camp occupied by migrants and
refugees at the Greek-Macedonian border near the village of Idomeni on March 24.
Andrej Isakovic, AFP/Getty Images file

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           Cameroon Tribune (Yaoundé)

                               November 30, 2016

US Offers 54 million FCFA To Urban Refugee Students

BYLINE: Kimeng Hilton Ndukong

LENGTH: 299 words


It is to pay school registration, registration for State examinations, textbooks
and stationery for students in Yaounde and Douala.

The United States of America on November 29, 2016, in Yaounde handed over a
cheque of 54 million FCFA to the United Nations High Commission for Refugees,
UNHCR. Ambassador Michael S. Hoza handed over the gift to UNHCR's Country
Representative for Cameroon, Khassim Diagne, in the presence of Bayaola
Boniface, the Secretary of State for Teacher Education in the Ministry of
Secondary Education.

Khassim Diagne said over the years, the UN agency together with government has
registered about 1,400 refugee children in primary school, 305 in secondary
school and 71 in university. The 54 million FCFA support is meant for this
year's school registration, registration for State examinations, textbooks and
stationery for 270 urban refugees in secondary school in Yaounde and about 150
others in Douala. He commended Cameroon and the US for ensuring that the 420
children go to school. Gifts of textbooks and stationery were later handed over
to all urban refugee students registered in secondary school this year.

Ambassador Hoza said no one knew who amongst the refugee students would become a
great inventor in future; thus the wish of President Barack Obama to see all
refugee children receive education. He commended Khassim Diagne for "the
miraculous work" carried out in Cameroon to assist refugees. The leader of urban
refugees in Yaounde, Azaid Khamis, spoke of their challenges that oblige the men
to do menial jobs, school-age children to carry out work in construction sites
to eke a living and women to resort to prostitution. Azaid Khamis urged refugees
to continue to strive to better their conditions instead of waiting for others
to do everything for them.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                            November 21, 2016 Monday
                              MON REGIONAL Edition

Colo. Rhodes scholar to study mass migrations

BYLINE: Steven K. Paulson

SECTION: ASECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 340 words


A former Colorado high school student is headed to the University of Oxford
after winning a prestigious Rhodes scholarship to study mass migrations caused
by world turmoil.

Hannah Carrese said the current definition of a refugee is outdated in the 21st
century because international agreements apply to individuals fleeing violence
or persecution, and not mass migrations from places such as Syria, Honduras, El
Salvador and North Africa.

She worked with refugees from Bhutan while she was in high school in Colorado
Springs then went to Mexico to work with refugees fleeing violence in Central
America.

Carrese said that when she gets to Oxford next year, she plans to look for ways
to provide aid so people won't have to flee their homes and find new policies
for countries to deal with mass influxes of refugees.

"These people don't fit the international definition of a refugee, but they're
still fleeing violence," said Carrese, who graduated from Yale University in
May.

She said under current rules, individuals must show they need refuge in another
country because of persecution for race, religion, ethnicity or political
affiliation or that they are a member of a persecuted social group.

"Now people are fleeing entire states in masses," she said, and countries around
the globe have limited resources to deal with their problems.

Carrese said people often criticize the United States about its immigration
policies and deportation of undocumented immigrants, mostly Latinos. But she
said the United States is better than other countries because it provides paths
to citizenship for people who qualify.

She said people often are not aware of violence and discrimination in places
such as Bhutan, where Hindus are fleeing the Buddhist government, and places
such as Israel, where the government is struggling to cope with large numbers of
people from Ethiopia and Eritrea.

She said countries have dealt with immigrants for centuries, but the pace has
escalated during the past decade, requiring new standards and policies to deal
with them.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Hannah Carrese is a Yale grad from Colo-rado Springs.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              238 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               November 14, 2016
                                 First Edition

Obama agrees to resettle Australia's asylum-seekers;
AUSTRALIA

BYLINE: Rod McGuirk IN CANBERRA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 198 words


America has agreed to resettle an unspecified number of refugees from
Australia's Pacific island camps. The Obama administration will resettle
refugees from among the almost 1,300 asylum-seekers held - at Australia's
expense - in the island nations of Nauru and Papua New Guinea. Another 370 who
came to Australia for medical treatment but then refused to return to the
islands would also be eligible.

Australian premier Malcolm Turnbull (inset) would not say whether he had
discussed the deal with President-elect Donald Trump during their telephone
conversation on Thursday. "We deal with one administration at a time and there
is only one President of the United States at a time," he said.

Mr Trump has called for a moratorium or tight restrictions on Muslim
immigration. Most of the asylum-seekers are Muslims from the Middle East, Africa
and Asia.

Since 2013, Australia has refused to resettle any refugee who has arrived by
boat, but pays to house them on the islands while officials seek states that
will take them. Any refugee who refuses to go to the US would be given a 20-year
visa to stay on Nauru, an atoll with a population of 10,000, the Immigration
Minister, Peter Dutton, said.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2016 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              239 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                           November 12, 2016 Saturday

US and Australia close to refugee deal

BYLINE: Associated Press in Canberra

LENGTH: 418  words


The United States and Australia are close to announcing a deal in which the US
would resettle hundreds of asylum seekers banished by Australia to Pacific
island camps, a newspaper reported on Friday.

The US had agreed to accept up to 1,800 refugees held for up to three years at
Australia's expense in camps on the impoverished island nations of Nauru and
Papua New Guinea, The Australian newspaper reported.

Such an agreement struck with the Obama administration could be opposed by
President-elect Donald Trump, who has called for a moratorium or tight
restrictions on Muslim immigration. Most of the asylum seekers are Muslims from
the Middle East, Africa and Asia.

The agreement could empty the camps that have been condemned by human rights
groups as a cruel abrogation of Australia's responsibilities as a signatory to
the United Nations Refugee Convention.

Prime Minster Malcolm Turnbull declined to comment on the negotiations with the
United States.

Rebecca Gardner, spokeswoman for the US Embassy in Australia, also denied
comment on the newspaper report, saying the State Department did not "comment on
or discuss diplomatic negotiations".

Senior government minister Christopher Pyne praised the prospect of such an
agreement being finalized before the Obama administration ends.

"There certainly is time, two and a half months is plenty of time and if that's
the case, it will be a great achievement for the Turnbull government," Pyne told
Nine Network television.

Senior opposition lawmaker Anthony Albanese said "if this occurs, that will be a
good thing".

The opposition center-left Labor Party criticized a previous deal struck between
Australia and the United States in 2007 to swap refugees, arguing that the
prospect of US resettlement would attract more asylum seekers to Australian
shores.

Under that deal, up to 200 refugees a year held on Nauru could have been swapped
for Cubans and Haitians intercepted at sea while trying to get to the US and
held at the US Navy base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. But no refugee was ever traded
under that deal.

Turnbull announced at Obama's Leaders' Summit on Refugees in September that
Australia would participate in the US-led program to resettle Central American
refugees from a camp in Costa Rica. Australia would also increase its refugee
intake by 5,000 to 18,750 a year.

Turnbull said at the time that the agreement to resettle Central Americans was
"not linked to any other resettlement discussions" involving Australia's
refugees.

(China Daily 11/12/2016 page8)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              240 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       The Financial Express (Bangladesh)

                           November 10, 2016 Thursday

Protecting displaced, migrant children

LENGTH: 1245 words

DATELINE: Bangladesh


Bangladesh, Nov. 10 -- We must not forget that refugee and migrant children do
not bear any responsibility for the bombs and bullets, the gang violence,
persecution, the shrivelled crops and low family wages driving them from their
homes. It is high time we took initiatives for protecting these most vulnerable
children, writes S. M. Rayhanul Islam reviewing the book

Uprooted: The Growing Crisis for Refugee and Migrant Children

Published by UNICEF, September, 2016

Pages: 140, ISBN: 978-92-806-4847-8

In recent years, child migration - both forced and voluntary - has become a
global phenomenon. Around the world today, 50 million children have migrated
across borders or been forcibly displaced within their own countries. More than
half - a shocking 28 million - have been uprooted by horrific conflicts in their
own countries. These migrating and displaced children are at risk of some of the
worst forms of abuse and harm. Often dependent on human smuggling, they usually
fall victim to traffickers and other criminals. Many are subjected to extreme
forms of abuse and deprivation during their journeys. When, and if, these
children reach destination countries, the threats they face do not disappear.
Despite extraordinary and generous actions to help them in many places and by
many people and organisations, children and their families struggle to gain a
foothold. Moreover, refugee and migrant children disproportionately face poverty
and exclusion at a time when they are in desperate need of essential services
and protection.

The UNICEF publication, Uprooted: The Growing Crisis for Refugee and Migrant
Children presents comprehensive global data about these children - where they
are born, where they move, and some of the dangers they face along the way. The
report sheds light on the truly global nature of childhood migration and
displacement, highlighting the major challenges faced by child migrants and
refugees in every region. The report is divided into three main parts.

Part one focuses on the global perspective of childhood migration. Today, nearly
1 in every 200 children in the world is a child refugee. Between 2005 and 2015,
the number of child refugees under the UNHCR's mandate more than doubled. During
the same period, the total number of all child migrants rose by 21 per cent. The
10 countries hosting the largest numbers of refugees are all in Asia and Africa,
with Turkey hosting by far the largest total number of refugees under UNHCR's
mandate. By the end of 2015, some 41 million people were displaced by violence
and conflict within their own countries; an estimated 17 million of them were
children. Globally, three out of every five international child migrants live in
Asia or Africa. Half of all the world's child migrants live in just 15
countries, led by the United States of America, which is home to 3.7 million
child migrants.

Part two discusses the regional perspective of childhood migration and
displacement. More than half of all international migration is composed of
movements within regions, and the three largest migration movements in the world
are all intraregional. Refugee movements are even more concentrated within
regions than they are with general migration. Africa has one of the world's
lowest rates of child migration, with just 1 in 90 African children living
outside their country of birth. While the total rates of migration are low, the
share of children among Africa's migrants is the largest for any region. Nearly
one in three African migrants is a child, more than twice the global average.
The Americas are home to 6.3 million child migrants - 21 per cent of the global
total. Four out of five child migrants in the Americas live in just three
countries: the United States, Mexico and Canada. There is a high and increasing
number of vulnerable children moving on their own within the Americas - often
fleeing violence in their homes and communities. Nearly 12 million of the
world's international child migrants live in Asia. This represents 39 per cent
of all international child migrants, well below Asia's 56 per cent share of the
global child population. Saudi Arabia hosts the largest number of child migrants
in Asia and the second highest number of child migrants in the world. Other
Asian countries hosting large numbers of child migrants are Jordan, Lebanon,
Pakistan and Turkey. This reflects the continuing toll of conflict rather than a
trend of voluntary child movement. At the end of 2015, Europe hosted
approximately one in nine of all refugees under UNHCR's mandate, a total of 1.8
million people. An additional 1 million asylum-seekers in Europe were also
awaiting the outcome of their asylum applications. Approximately one in six of
the world's child migrants lives in Europe. Child migrants constitute a high
proportion of all children in Oceania. Six in every 100 children in the region
are migrants. The 670,000 child migrants living in Oceania represent 2 per cent
of child migrants in the world.

The report concludes with the chapter 'The Policy Perspective'. Based on the
findings of the report and its work in the field, UNICEF has developed six goals
and practical suggestions to protect child migrants and refugees and provide
them with hope for a better future: 1) Protecting child refugees and migrants,
particularly unaccompanied children, from exploitation and violence. 2)
Introducing practical alternatives to detention wherever children (or their
families) are involved, given the negative impact of detention on a child's
development. 3) Developing clear policy guidance to keep children from being
separated from their parents during border control processing and any migrant
legal processes. States should speed up procedures and make it easier for
children to reunite with their families, including with their extended families
in destination countries. 4) Keeping all refugee and migrant children learning
and give them access to health and other quality services. An increased
collective effort by governments, communities and the private sector is needed
to provide education, health, shelter, nutrition, water and sanitation, and
access to legal and psychosocial support to these children. 5) Addressing the
root causes of conflict, violence and extreme poverty in countries of origin.
This should include increasing access to education and social protection;
expanding opportunities for family income and youth employment; and fostering
more accountable and transparent governance. 6) Promoting measures to combat
xenophobia, discrimination and marginalisation in countries of transit and
destination. Coalitions of NGOs, communities, private sector, religious groups
and political leaders should take responsibility for influencing public opinion
to prevent the rise of xenophobia and discrimination towards refugees.

We must not forget that refugee and migrant children do not bear any
responsibility for the bombs and bullets, the gang violence, persecution, the
shrivelled crops and low family wages driving them from their homes. It is high
time we took initiatives for protecting these most vulnerable children as they
are our next generation as well as the future of the world.

The writer is an independent researcher.

smrayhanulislam@hotmail.com

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Financial Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Financial Express
                              All Rights Reserved


                              241 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                           November 9, 2016 Wednesday

Australia expects to resettle refugees

BYLINE: ROD McGUIRK Associated Press

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 288 words


CANBERRA, Australia - Australia will find another country to resettle hundreds
of asylum seekers now held on poor Pacific islands, a minister said Tuesday as
his government planned to banish for life refugees who arrive by boat.

Immigration Minister Peter Dutton declined to identify countries with which
Australia is negotiating to accept almost 1,300 asylum seekers from Africa, the
Middle East and Asia who are kept at Australia's expense in camps at Nauru and
Papua New Guinea.

The Australian newspaper reported last week that the United States and Canada
could be among the countries that will accept Australia's asylum seekers.

Few refugees have accepted offers to resettle in Papua New Guinea and Cambodia
because most hope that Australia will eventually take them in.

Australia refuses to resettle any refugee who has arrived by boat since the date
the tough policy was announced, July 19, 2013.

The government also introduced to Parliament legislation that would ban such
refugees from ever visiting Australia as a tourist, to do business or as an
Australian's spouse.

But the center-left opposition Labor Party said it will not support the
legislation. Without Labor's backing in the Senate, the conservative government
will need to persuade independent and minor-party senators to make the bill law.

Australia has rejected a New Zealand offer to resettle 150 refugees. One of
Australia's reasons is that those refugees could then become New Zealand
citizens and be entitled to live in Australia without a visa under the rules of
the close bilateral relationship.

New Zealand Prime Minister John Key last week talked down the prospect of a deal
that would ban refugees accepted by New Zealand from ever traveling to
Australia.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2016 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                              242 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                          November 9, 2016, Wednesday

Australia expects to resettle hundreds of refugees

BYLINE: Rod Mcguirk, The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P7A

LENGTH: 496 words


CANBERRA, Australia - Australia will find another country to resettle hundreds
of asylum seekers now held on poor Pacific islands, a minister said Tuesday as
his government planned to banish for life refugees who arrive by boat.

Immigration Minister Peter Dutton declined to identify countries with which
Australia is negotiating to accept almost 1,300 asylum seekers from Africa, the
Middle East and Asia who are kept at Australia's expense in camps at Nauru and
Papua New Guinea.

"We have been in negotiation with third countries for a long period of time and
we are going to land a deal, Dutton told reporters, referring to countries that
are neither the asylum seekers' homelands nor the country where they are
currently kept.

The Australian newspaper reported last week that the United States and Canada
could be among the countries that will accept Australia's asylum seekers.

Few refugees have accepted offers to resettle in Papua New Guinea and Cambodia
because most hope that Australia will eventually take them in.

Australia refuses to resettle any refugee who has arrived by boat since the date
the tough policy was announced, July 19, 2013.

The government also introduced to Parliament legislation that would ban such
refugees from ever visiting Australia as a tourist, to do business or as an
Australian's spouse.

"This legislation sends a strong message to people smugglers and those
considering traveling illegally to Australia by boat that Australia's borders
are now stronger than ever, Dutton told Parliament.

But the center-left opposition Labor Party said it will not support the
legislation. Without Labor's backing in the Senate, the conservative government
will need to persuade independent and minor-party senators to make the bill law.

"The idea that a citizen of the United States or Canada or New Zealand faces a
lifetime ban preventing them from visiting Australia in 30 or 40 years' time is
simply unacceptable, Labor leader Bill Shorten said.

Amnesty International, a London-based human rights group, welcomed Labor's
stance against "this callous and cruel legislation.

Australia has rejected a New Zealand offer to resettle 150 refugees. One of
Australia's reasons is that those refugees could then become New Zealand
citizens and be entitled to live in Australia without a visa under the rules of
the close bilateral relationship.

New Zealand Prime Minister John Key last week talked down the prospect of a deal
that would ban refugees accepted by New Zealand from ever traveling to
Australia.

"We're not going to be in the process of creating different classes of New
Zealand citizens, Key said.

Sydney's The Daily Telegraph newspaper reported that up to 10 male asylum
seekers from Iran and Iraq kept at Papua New Guinea and married Australian women
who worked at the immigration camp and had gained Australian spousal visas since
2012.

Dutton said described such marriages as "sham arrangements and said his
government "won't tolerate the law being subverted.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers


                              243 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                           November 9, 2016 Wednesday
                              WED REGIONAL Edition

Australia seeks home for rejected refugees

BYLINE: Rod McGuirk

SECTION: ASECTION; Pg. 24A

LENGTH: 495 words


CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA Australia will find another country to resettle hundreds of
asylum seekers now held on poor Pacific islands, a minister said Tuesday as his
government planned to banish for life refugees who arrive by boat.

Immigration Minister Peter Dutton declined to identify countries with which
Australia is negotiating to accept almost 1,300 asylum seekers from Africa, the
Middle East and Asia who are kept at Australia's expense in camps at Nauru and
Papua New Guinea.

"We have been in negotiation with third countries for a long period of time and
we are going to land a deal," Dutton told reporters, referring to countries that
are neither the asylum seekers' homelands nor the country where they are
currently kept.

The Australian newspaper reported last week that the United States and Canada
could be among the countries that will accept Australia's asylum seekers.

Few refugees have accepted offers to resettle in Papua New Guinea and Cambodia
because most hope that Australia will eventually take them in.

Australia refuses to resettle any refugee who has arrived by boat since the date
the tough policy was announced, July 19, 2013.

The government also introduced to Parliament legislation that would ban such
refugees from ever visiting Australia as a tourist, to do business or as an
Australian's spouse.

"This legislation sends a strong message to people smugglers and those
considering traveling illegally to Australia by boat that Australia's borders
are now stronger than ever," Dutton told Parliament.

But the center left opposition Labor Party said it will not support the
legislation. Without Labor's backing in the Senate, the conservative government
will need to persuade independent and minor party senators to make the bill law.

"The idea that a citizen of the United States or Canada or New Zealand faces a
lifetime ban preventing them from visiting Australia in 30 or 40 years' time is
simply unacceptable," Labor leader Bill Shorten said.

Amnesty International, a London based human rights group, welcomed Labor's
stance against "this callous and cruel legislation."

Australia has rejected a New Zealand offer to resettle 150 refugees. One of
Australia's reasons is that those refugees could then become New Zealand
citizens and be entitled to live in Australia without a visa under the rules of
the close bilateral relationship.

New Zealand Prime Minister John Key last week talked down the prospect of a deal
that would ban refugees accepted by New Zealand from ever traveling to
Australia.

"We're not going to be in the process of creating different classes of New
Zealand citizens," Key said.

Sydney's Daily Telegraph newspaper reported that up to 10 male asylum seekers
from Iran and Iraq kept at Papua New Guinea married Australian women who worked
at the immigration camp and had gained Australian spousal visas since 2012.

Dutton described such marriages as "sham arrangements" and said his government
"won't tolerate the law being subverted."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Demonstrators march last week in an event in Sydney organized by
Doctors for Refugees to demand humane treatment of asylum seekers and refugees,
who are being held in camps in Nauru and Papua New Guinea. Peter Parks,
AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              244 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 11, 2016 Tuesday

FEDERAL REGISTER: Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal
Year 2017 Pages 70315 - 70316 [FR DOC # 2016-24736]

LENGTH: 625  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: Office of the Federal Register has issued the following notice:



 Presidential Documents Federal Register / Vol. 81 , No. 196 / Tuesday, October
11, 2016 / Presidential Documents [[Page 70315]] Presidential Determination No.
2016-13 of September 28, 2016 Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions
for Fiscal Year 2017 Memorandum for the Secretary of State In accordance with
section 207 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (the ``Act'') (8 U.S.C.
1157), and after appropriate consultations with the Congress, I hereby make the
following determinations and authorize the following actions: The admission of
up to 110,000 refugees to the United States during Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 is
justified by humanitarian concerns or is otherwise in the national interest;
provided that this number shall be understood as including persons admitted to
the United States during FY 2017 with Federal refugee resettlement assistance
under the Amerasian immigrant admissions program, as provided below.

The admissions numbers shall be allocated among refugees of special humanitarian
concern to the United States in accordance with the following regional
allocations; provided that the number of admissions allocated to the East Asia
region shall include persons admitted to the United States during FY 2017 with
Federal refugee resettlement assistance under section 584 of the Foreign
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act of 1988,
as contained in section 101(e) of Public Law 100-202 (Amerasian immigrants and
their family members): Africa......................... 35,000 East
Asia...................... 12,000 Europe and Central Asia........ 4,000 Latin
America and the Caribbean 5,000 Near East and South Asia....... 40,000
Unallocated Reserve............ 14,000 The 14,000 unallocated refugee numbers
shall be allocated to regional ceilings, as needed. Upon providing notification
to the Judiciary Committees of the Congress, you are hereby authorized to use
unallocated admissions in regions where the need for additional admissions
arises. Additionally, upon notification to the Judiciary Committees of the
Congress, you are further authorized to transfer unused admissions allocated to
a particular region to one or more other regions, if there is a need for greater
admissions for the region or regions to which the admissions are being
transferred. Consistent with section 2(b)(2) of the Migration and Refugee
Assistance Act of 1962, I hereby determine that assistance to or on behalf of
persons applying for admission to the United States as part of the overseas
refugee admissions program will contribute to the foreign policy interests of
the United States and designate such persons for this purpose. Consistent with
section 101(a)(42) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(42)), and after appropriate
consultation with the Congress, I also specify that, for FY 2017, the following
persons may, if otherwise qualified, be considered refugees for the purpose of
admission to the United States within their countries of nationality or habitual
residence: a. Persons in Cuba b. Persons in Eurasia and the Baltics c. Persons
in Iraq [[Page 70316]] d. Persons in Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador e. In
exceptional circumstances, persons identified by a United States Embassy in any
location You are authorized and directed to publish this determination in the
Federal Register.



                     (Presidential Sig.)



                 THE WHITE HOUSE,



                     Washington, September 28, 2016



 [FR Doc. 2016-24736

 Filed 10-7-16; 11:15 am]

 Billing code 4710-10-P



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              245 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 11, 2016 Tuesday

FEDERAL REGISTER: Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal
Year 2017 Pages 70315 - 70316 [FR DOC # 2016-24736]

LENGTH: 625  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: Office of the Federal Register has issued the following notice:



 Presidential Documents Federal Register / Vol. 81 , No. 196 / Tuesday, October
11, 2016 / Presidential Documents [[Page 70315]] Presidential Determination No.
2016-13 of September 28, 2016 Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions
for Fiscal Year 2017 Memorandum for the Secretary of State In accordance with
section 207 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (the ``Act'') (8 U.S.C.
1157), and after appropriate consultations with the Congress, I hereby make the
following determinations and authorize the following actions: The admission of
up to 110,000 refugees to the United States during Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 is
justified by humanitarian concerns or is otherwise in the national interest;
provided that this number shall be understood as including persons admitted to
the United States during FY 2017 with Federal refugee resettlement assistance
under the Amerasian immigrant admissions program, as provided below.

The admissions numbers shall be allocated among refugees of special humanitarian
concern to the United States in accordance with the following regional
allocations; provided that the number of admissions allocated to the East Asia
region shall include persons admitted to the United States during FY 2017 with
Federal refugee resettlement assistance under section 584 of the Foreign
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act of 1988,
as contained in section 101(e) of Public Law 100-202 (Amerasian immigrants and
their family members): Africa......................... 35,000 East
Asia...................... 12,000 Europe and Central Asia........ 4,000 Latin
America and the Caribbean 5,000 Near East and South Asia....... 40,000
Unallocated Reserve............ 14,000 The 14,000 unallocated refugee numbers
shall be allocated to regional ceilings, as needed. Upon providing notification
to the Judiciary Committees of the Congress, you are hereby authorized to use
unallocated admissions in regions where the need for additional admissions
arises. Additionally, upon notification to the Judiciary Committees of the
Congress, you are further authorized to transfer unused admissions allocated to
a particular region to one or more other regions, if there is a need for greater
admissions for the region or regions to which the admissions are being
transferred. Consistent with section 2(b)(2) of the Migration and Refugee
Assistance Act of 1962, I hereby determine that assistance to or on behalf of
persons applying for admission to the United States as part of the overseas
refugee admissions program will contribute to the foreign policy interests of
the United States and designate such persons for this purpose. Consistent with
section 101(a)(42) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(42)), and after appropriate
consultation with the Congress, I also specify that, for FY 2017, the following
persons may, if otherwise qualified, be considered refugees for the purpose of
admission to the United States within their countries of nationality or habitual
residence: a. Persons in Cuba b. Persons in Eurasia and the Baltics c. Persons
in Iraq [[Page 70316]] d. Persons in Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador e. In
exceptional circumstances, persons identified by a United States Embassy in any
location You are authorized and directed to publish this determination in the
Federal Register.



                     (Presidential Sig.)



                 THE WHITE HOUSE,



                     Washington, September 28, 2016



 [FR Doc. 2016-24736

 Filed 10-7-16; 11:15 am]

 Billing code 4710-10-P



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                New Delhi Times

                            October 1, 2016 Saturday

Initiative Looks Beyond Usual Destinations for Middle East Refugees

LENGTH: 863  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, Oct. 1 -- A popular refugee destination it is not, but South America
may soon host a fresh wave of refugees under a U.S.-sponsored plan aimed at
getting more countries to share in sheltering the world's growing migrant
population.

In recent years, Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia and Uruguay have all
received refugees from Syria, but the numbers have been limited - a few dozen in
the case of Uruguay to a couple thousand in Brazil - and the refugees have been
admitted on an ad hoc basis, not through an established resettlement program.

Now, with Western nations struggling to find homes for millions of refugees, the
U.S., Britain and Sweden have funded the Emergency Resettlement Country Joint
Support Mechanism, with the aim of encouraging countries in South America and
elsewhere to take in larger numbers of asylum seekers from the Middle East,
Africa and Asia.

"I think this is a very good innovation here, something brand-new, and it could
play a major role [in resettling refugees]," said William Lacy Swing, director
general of the International Organization for Migration (IOM).

The Geneva-based IOM and the U.N. refugee agency will jointly run the program,
which has an initial goal of resettling 30,000 refugees over the next three
years.

Enough money to get started

In addition to $11 million provided by the U.S., the program has received $3.5
million from Britain. But the largest contribution, $17.5 million, came from
Sweden, which last year accepted more than 160,000 refugees, roughly 2 percent
of its population.

Luca Dall'Oglio, IOM's chief of mission in Washington, said other wealthy
nations also might also contribute to the fund, but with $32 million on hand,
the program has enough money to get started and resettle 10,000 refugees over
the next year.

The goal of resettling 30,000 refugees over the three years "is a planning
figure," Dall'Oglio said in an interview. "It could go higher or lower depending
on the response from both the donor countries as well as the countries that
receive refugees."

Dall'Oglio would not say what countries have joined the program. "At this time,
all we can say is that certain countries in South America have expressed
interest in the program, most notably Chile. Others in the region may also
benefit from it once it is up and running."

Chile last year announced plans to take in 100 Syrian refugee families, while
Argentina has offered to admit 3,000 asylum seekers.

"We're certainly looking at South America, but not only South America,"
Dall'Oglio said.

Noting that several hundred Syrian refugees have in recent years fled to
Senegal, where "they're doing reasonably well," he added that the West African
nation could be a candidate for the program, though it has yet to express an
interest in signing on.

Helping countries help refugees

Countries joining the program need financial and technical assistance, said Anne
Richard, U.S. assistant secretary of state for population, refugees and
migration.

"And so this fund was set up to help cover the cost of screening refugees, and
the transportation to get the refugees to these new resettlement countries,"
Richard said.

The U.N. puts the number of refugees in the world at 21.3 million, a record
brought about by the five-year-old conflict in Syria.

With the refugee crisis crying out for more resources and creative problem
solving, the new program represents an innovative way of helping asylum seekers,
said Robert McKenzie of the Brookings Institution, a Washington policy research
group.

"The idea of trying to focus international attention on this crisis, to try to
galvanize international support, makes sense," McKenzie said.

Taking a chance on S. America

The overwhelming majority of the world's refugees live in countries bordering
their native lands, with nearly 5 million Syrian refugees encamped in Turkey,
Lebanon and Jordan.

With options for legal migration to Europe and the U.S. limited, and the voyage
across the Mediterranean increasingly perilous, the prospect of receiving asylum
in South America might appeal to refugees with no hopes of integrating or
returning home.

"What is the alternative?" McKenzie said. "To leave a refugee in grinding
poverty in Lebanon or Jordan or to try to resettle that individual and his or
her family to a country in South America?"

Dall'Oglio said countries taking refugees will be expected to make "a very
important contribution in facilitating local integration." But there are
challenges to integration. Both Argentina and Brazil are in the midst of severe
economic downturns.

Last September, five families of Syrian refugees granted asylum in Uruguay
demanded to leave the country, disappointed by what they said was the Uruguayan
government's failed promises to provide jobs.

Still, McKenzie said most refugees can adapt if given the opportunity.

"They don't need a handout," McKenzie said. "They just need an opportunity to be
able to stand on their two feet."

Credit : Voice of America (VOA) | Photo Credit: AP

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Delhi Times. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 New Delhi Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              247 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 24, 2016 Saturday

Washington: Remarks at Leaders Summit on Refugees

LENGTH: 2326  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: U.S. Mission to the United Nations has issued the following news
release:



 Thank you. (Applause.) Yusra, we could not be prouder of you -- not just for
the great introduction, but more importantly, for your courage and your
resilience and the great example that you're setting for children everywhere,
including your eight-year-old sister, who I know must look up to you.
(Applause.)





 Good afternoon. Mr. Secretary General; Your Excellencies, we are here because,
right now, in crowded camps and cities around the world, there are families --
from Darfur in Chad, Palestinians in Lebanon, Afghans in Pakistan, Colombians in
Ecuador -- who've endured years -- in some cases, decades -- as refugees,
surviving on rations and aid, and who dream of someday, somehow, having a home
of their own.



 We're here because, right now, there are young girls -- like Yusra, like my
daughters -- who are just as precious and just as gifted -- like the 16-year-old
refugee from Myanmar that I met in Malaysia -- who've suffered unspeakable abuse
at the hands of traffickers, modern day slavery, girls who pray at night that
someone might rescue them from their torment. There are boys, fleeing the
fighting in South Sudan, violence in Central America, wars in North Africa and
the Middle East -- who are at the mercy of criminals who pack them into trucks
or makeshift rafts, and who die on treacherous seas -- like little Alan Kurdi
from Syria, lifeless, face down on a Turkish beach, in his red shirt and blue
pants.



 We are here because, right now, there are mothers separated from their children
-- like the woman in a camp in Greece, who held on to her family photographs,
heard her children cry on the phone, and who said "my breath is my
children&hellip;every day I am dying 10, 20, 30 times." We're here because there
are fathers who simply want to build a new life and provide for their families
-- like Refaai Hamo, from Syria, who lost his wife and daughter in the war, who
we welcomed to America, and who says, "I still think I have a chance to make a
difference in the world."



 Mr. Secretary General; heads of state and heads of government; distinguished
guests; ladies and gentlemen: As you saw in the video, we are facing a crisis of
epic proportions. More than 65 million people have been driven from their homes
-- which is more than any time since the Second World War. Among them are more
than 21 million refugees who have fled their countries -- everything and
everyone they've ever known, fleeing with a suitcase or the clothes on their
back.



 And I'm here today -- I called this summit -- because this crisis is one of the
most urgent tests of our time -- our capacity for collective action. To test,
first and foremost, our ability to end conflicts, because so many of the world's
refugees come from just three countries ravaged by war -- Syria, Afghanistan and
Somalia.



 And I said today to the General Assembly, the mentality that allows for
violence with impunity is something we cannot excuse. And collectively, we
continue to make excuses. It's not the subject of this summit, but we all know
that what is happening in Syria, for example, is unacceptable. And we are not as
unified as we should be in pushing to make it stop.



 It's a test of our international system where all nations ought to share in our
collective responsibilities, because the vast majority of refugees are hosted by
just 10 countries who are bearing a very heavy burden -- among them Turkey,
Pakistan, Lebanon, Iran, Ethiopia. Countries that often have fewer resources
than many of those who are doing little or nothing.



 It is a crisis of our shared security. Not because refugees are a threat.
Refugees, most of whom are women and children, are often fleeing war and
terrorism. They are victims. They're families who want to be safe and to work,
be good citizens and contribute to their country -- I was talking to Yusra --
she's now in Germany. She already speaks some English. Now she's trying to learn
German -- who are interested in assimilating and contributing to the society in
which they find themselves.



 In recent years, in the United States, we've worked to put in intensive
screening and security checks, so we can welcome refugees and ensure our
security -- in fact, refugees are subject to more rigorous screening than the
average tourist. We've seen in America, hardworking, patriotic refugees serve in
our military, and start new businesses and help revitalize communities. I
believe refugees can make us stronger.



 So the challenge to our security is because when desperate refugees pay
cold-hearted traffickers for passage, it funds the same criminals who are
smuggling arms and drugs and children. When nations with their own internal
difficulties find themselves hosting massive refugee populations for years on
end, it can risk more instability. It oftentimes surfaces tensions in our
society when we have disorderly and disproportionate migration into some
countries that skews our politics and is subject to demagoguery.



 And if we were to turn refugees away simply because of their background or
religion, or, for example, because they are Muslim, then we would be reinforcing
terrorist propaganda that nations like my own are somehow opposed to Islam,
which is an ugly lie that must be rejected in all of our countries by upholding
the values of pluralism and diversity.



 And finally, this crisis is a test of our common humanity -- whether we give in
to suspicion and fear and build walls, or whether we see ourselves in another.
Those girls being trafficked and tortured, they could be our daughters. That
little boy on the beach could be our son or our grandson. We cannot avert our
eyes or turn our backs. To slam the door in the face of these families would
betray our deepest values. It would deny our own heritage as nations, including
the United States of America, that have been built by immigrants and refugees.
And it would be to ignore a teaching at the heart of so many faiths that we do
unto others as we would have them do unto us; that we welcome the stranger in
our midst. And just as failure to act in the past -- for example, by turning
away Jews fleeing Nazi Germany -- is a stain on our collective conscience, I
believe history will judge us harshly if we do not rise to this moment.



 First and foremost, we must recognize that refugees are a symptom of larger
failures -- be it war, ethnic tensions, or persecution. If we truly want to
address the crisis, wars like the savagery in Syria must be brought to an end --
and it will be brought to an end through political settlement and diplomacy, and
not simply by bombing.



 We have to insist on greater investments in development and education and
democratic institutions -- the lack of which fuels so much of the instability we
see in the world. And we need to continue to speak up for justice and equality,
and insist that the universal human rights of every person are upheld,
everywhere.



 In the face of this crisis, with what often seems grim news, we are grateful
for the heroic work of so many around the world. Leaders who, often in the face
of difficult politics at home, welcome refugees as new neighbors. Businesses,
such as those I met with right before I came here, which had made commitments
worth more than $650 million to empower refugees. International institutions and
faith groups and NGOs, including InterAction -- the alliance of American NGOs --
whose members will invest more than $1.2 billion over the next three years to
assist the world's displaced people and refugees.



 As Americans, we're determined to do our part. The [United States] is the
largest single donor of humanitarian aid around the world, including to refugees
and to the people of Syria. We resettle more refugees than any other nation. As
President, I've increased the number of refugees we are resettling to 85,000
this year, which includes 10,000 Syrian refugees -- a goal we've exceeded even
as we've upheld our rigorous screening. And I called for this summit because we
all have to do more.



 I want to thank our co-hosts, Secretary General Ban, and Jordan. Obviously,
Jordan is carrying an enormous burden as a consequence of the conflict, and we
are grateful for His Majesty and the work that they've done. Mexico, which is
absorbing a great number of refugees from Central America. Sweden, which has
made enormous humanitarian contributions in addition to taking on refugees.
Germany and Canada -- two countries that have gone above and beyond in providing
support for refugees. And I want to personally thank Chancellor Merkel and Prime
Minister Trudeau, and the people of both those countries -- because the politics
sometimes can be hard, but it's the right thing to do. And Ethiopia, which as
was noted in the video, bears an enormous burden.



 I also want to thank the more than 50 nations and organizations participating
in this summit for making tangible, concrete commitments. Collectively, our
nations have increased our contributions to humanitarian organizations and U.N.
appeals this year by some $4.5 billion, and that includes a $1 billion increase
this year from the United States. This will translate concretely into lifesaving
food, and medicine, and clothing, and shelter.



 But since we can't just keep on doing the same thing the same way -- allowing
refugees to languish in camps, disconnected from society -- we've also been
working with the World Bank to create new financing facilities to assist
countries hosting refugees build schools and economic opportunities. As part of
these efforts, the United States will contribute at least $50 million to help
middle-income countries, and we'll do more to help low-income countries so that
refugees and their host communities can flourish and grow stronger together. The
refugees in places like Ecuador or Kenya don't always get as much attention as
some of the recent migrations, but they need help too. And that's part of our
goal here.



 Collectively, our nations are roughly doubling the number of refugees that we
admit to our countries to more than 360,000 this year. Again, I want to
especially commend Germany, Canada, Austria, the Netherlands and Australia for
their continued leadership, as well countries like Argentina and Portugal for
their new commitments. And today, I'm proud to announce that the United States
will continue our leadership role. In the coming fiscal year, starting next
week, the United States will welcome and resettle 110,000 refugees from around
the world -- which is a nearly 60 percent increase over 2015. We intend to do it
right, and we will do it safely.



 Collectively, the major commitments by Turkey, Thailand, Chad and Jordan will
help more than one million children who are refugees get an education; will help
one million refugees get training, new skills or find a job. And in all of this
work, we cannot forget those who are often the most vulnerable to abuse -- young
girls and women. So a key part of our efforts must be a renewed commitment to
stopping sexual violence and forced marriage. And we need to do more to truly
empower women and girls -- because every girl deserves the chance to grow and be
safe, and every woman should have her human rights and dignity upheld.



 So I'm heartened by the commitments that have been made here today. They will
help save lives. But we're going to have to be honest -- it's still not enough;
not sufficient for a crisis of this magnitude. And that's why I believe this
summit must be the beginning of a new global movement where everybody does more:
More nations donating more assistance and accepting more refugees. More
institutions and NGOs finding new ways to deliver aid. More businesses
contributing their expertise. More faith groups making this work their own. More
young people demanding action. More states and cities and towns coming forward
and saying, yes, we will open our communities to our fellow human beings in
need. And more pressure on those countries that are willing to perpetrate
violence on their own citizens in pursuit of power that carries such a heavy
human toll.



 We can learn from a young boy named Alex, who lives not far from here in
Scarsdale, New York. Last month, like all of us, Alex saw that heartbreaking
image -- five-year-old Omran Daqneesh in Aleppo, Syria, sitting in that
ambulance, silent and in shock, trying to wipe the blood from his hands.



 And here in New York, Alex, who is just six years old, sat down and wrote me a
letter. And he said, he wanted Omran to come live with him and his family.
"Since he won't bring toys," Alex wrote, "I will share my bike and I will teach
him how to ride it. I will teach him addition and subtraction. My little sister
will be collecting butterflies and fireflies for him&hellip;We can all play
together. We will give him a family and he will be our brother."



 Those are the words of a six-year-old boy. He teaches us a lot. (Applause.)



 The humanity that a young child can display, who hasn't learned to be cynical,
or suspicious, or fearful of other people because of where they're from, or how
they look, or how they pray, and who just understands the notion of treating
somebody that is like him with compassion, with kindness -- we can all learn
from Alex. Imagine the suffering we could ease, and the lives we could save, and
what our world would look like if, seeing a child who's hurting anywhere in the
world, we say, "We will give him a family and he will be our brother."



 We spend, so many of us in politics and in leadership, so much time devoted to
ascending the ladders of power. We spend time maintaining it; we spend time
trying to win over public opinion. And maybe sometimes we forget that the only
rationale for doing it is to help that little boy. I hope and pray that we
remember.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              248 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      September 23, 2016 Friday 00:00 EST

America's Duty to Take In Refugees;
Op-Ed Contributor

BYLINE: SCOTT ARBEITER

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 807 words



HIGHLIGHT: With 65 million displaced people, we must become a new Ellis Island.


This year the United States will take in 85,000 of the world's most vulnerable
so they can begin new lives in America, the highest number since 2001. But at a
time when 65 million people have been displaced by violence, and 20 million of
them are classified as refugees -- more than half of them children -- it is not
enough.

Recently, the Obama administration took a small step forward, raising the number
of refugees the country will let in to 110,000 for the next fiscal year. The
next step is for Congress to allocate resources for resettlement -- something it
has always done, in a bipartisan fashion, since the refugee crisis after World
War II.

Unfortunately, this time, a vocal minority in Congress, the states and the
public are arguing that we should respond to this humanitarian crisis by pulling
up the welcome mat, even for families fleeing the civil war in Syria and the
brutality of the Islamic State. Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama,
called the administration's increase "reckless and extreme."

Fear of refugees is not new. In 1939, the United States turned awaymore than 900
Jewsfleeing Hitler's Germany because of worries that some might be Nazi
conspirators or Communists. More than a quarter of those refugees died in the
Holocaust.

Some say we should be as fearful of refugees today, especially in an era of
terrorist attacks. Yet since 2001, more than 800,000 refugees have been
resettled in the United States, and none have been convicted of an act of
domestic terrorism. Compassion and security can coexist.

My organization, World Relief, has settled more than a quarter of a million
refugees in this country over the past 40 years, working with thousands of
congregations to welcome others who have no place to call home, creating a place
not just to live, but a place to belong. We're an evangelical charity, and our
motivations for this work come from what we believe about Jesus, who was himself
a refugee who fled with his mother and father to Egypt, and told us to "do for
others as we would want done for us."

We are joined in this work by many other agencies, religious and secular. They
act out of their own traditions and conviction, but all see the need to take
bold action to end human suffering.

My group's resettlement efforts began in 1979, when a couple who had returned
from two decades of ministry in Vietnam searched for a local church to welcome a
refugee family. Over the next decade, the federal government, resettlement
agencies and thousands of local churches resettled more than 700,000 refugees
from Asia, most from Vietnam. Today, Vietnamese-Americans are a resounding
success story: Compared with the country as a whole, they are more likely to be
employed and less likely to live in poverty, and they earn slightly higher
wages.

Some have argued that countries in the Middle East accept too few refugees, and
should take more. But two of Syria's neighbors, Jordan and Lebanon, host more
refugees per capita than any European country.

Even comparing the United States with other Western countries, our contributions
are modest. Canada resettled more than double the number of Syrian refugees
America received, even though their population is roughly a tenth of the United
States population. The United States takes in less than half of 1 percent of the
world's refugees.

Refugee resettlement has always received bipartisan support because the quest
for freedom and safety embodied in refugees' stories represents the values that
make America great, and because our national security is actually strengthened
when we respond with wisdom and compassion. Jihadists hate our compassion for
refugees, because it disproves the claims about Americans they use to sow hatred
and violence. Acting according to the best angels of our nature may produce our
greatest long-term strength and security.

The president has called for greater commitments from all nations, and this
higher quota is meant to lead by example. Congress must now do its part. It can
offer -- and I pray will offer -- a response that combines the best of our
wisdom, compassion and courage. Organizations like mine stand ready to work with
our political leaders to keep the welcome mat out.

Virtually every day, in quiet corners of airports across the country, refugees
are being welcomed and cared for by teams from churches and community groups. It
is in scenes like these, unseen by most, where we recapture the spirit of which
we as American citizens have been justifiably proud for most of our nation's
history.

This is our new Ellis Island. It is the expression of our faith and our
humanity, and it is a worthy response to the legacy we have inherited.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

Scott Arbeiter is the president of World Relief.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              249 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           Cameroon Tribune (Yaoundé)

                               September 21, 2016

Global Challenges Focus Attention in New-York

BYLINE: Richard Kwang Kometa

LENGTH: 582 words


As world leaders gather at the United Nations (UN) Headquarters in New York from
yesterday 19-23 September 2016 to brainstorm on the various issues that continue
to hold back humanity from achieving development goals, Cameroon, through the
presence of President Paul Biya is taking an active part in the debates.
Discussions at the General Assembly which take place annually are this year
tackling some of the most urgent challenges facing today's world. With the
contribution that Cameroon has been making to harbour over 300,000 refugees and
thousands of Internally Displaced Persons, the Minister of Territorial
Administration and Decentralisation, Rene Emmanuel Sadi who has been handling
files related to the refugee situation in the country, represented the Head of
State at the high-level meeting in New York yesterday. Minister Sadi was
accompanied by the Minister of External Relations, Lejeune Mbella Mbella, and
the Permanent Representative of Cameroon to the United Nations, Michel Tommo
Monthe.

While attention yesterday was on the situation of the massive movement of
migrants and refugees, deliberations will today delve into the Sustainable a
Development Goals (SDGs) adopted last year. One year after the UN came out with
17 SDGs, the first anniversary of the launch is taking place today in New York
and prior to the event, 17 youths were presented yesterday at the UN
Headquarters who would work with the Secretariat of the UN Secretary-General to
foster the objectives of the SDGs. They have been selected from a list of 18,000
nominations based on their outstanding leadership in efforts to achieve the
SDGs.

The UN General Assembly discussions today, which will centre on the SDGs are
therefore expected to see governments, the private sector and the civil society
underline how they intend to quickly take actions that will be vital to end
poverty, address inequalities and tackle climate change. Observers will be
watching and wondering how feasible such promises could come to fruition given
the difficulties witnessed in the Millennium Development Goals that were
expected to have transformed the living conditions of most people by 2015.
Agenda 2030 that the SDGs are targeting this time should therefore not just be a
pipe-dream in the alleviation of suffering, but a palpable benchmark through
which politicians should be able to present concrete results to the numerous
global hurdles.

Another key concern that this year's General Assembly debate at the UN has put
on the table is the idea of Social Good. It is intended to bring together
high-profile speakers to interact with hundreds of bloggers and digital media
practitioners to create innovative solutions and advice on some of the setbacks
in meeting earmarked goals. It is holding at the behest of the UN Foundation and
the UNDP.

The same hope-raising concern will be demonstrated by Cameroonians and other
world leaders who will have to listen to President Paul Biya here in New York
when he addresses the General Assembly to say in concrete terms what the country
has been doing to contribute to better living conditions both at home and
abroad. In the past, Mr Biya has provided several genuine ideas to help shape
the course of discussions at the United Nations. The resolution of conflicts by
the world body has equally seen the Cameroon Head of State taking centre stage
and having the country present citizens who have been seen as vital in enabling
the UN play its role of stabilising conflict zones.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              250 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                              The Herald (Harare)

                               September 21, 2016

U.S. Showers Govt, Zim With Praises - Harare Meets International Commitments

BYLINE: Lloyd Gumbo

LENGTH: 717 words


AT a time when sponsored activists are trying to present Zimbabwe as an
international pariah in the United States, the US has come out gushing about
Zimbabwe, hailing the Government for honouring its international commitments and
offering a safe haven for thousands of refugees from the world's hotspots.

This is despite the fact that US sanctions are estimated to have cost Zimbabwe
over $42 billion in revenue since the turn of the millennium in addition to
contracting the economy by a factor of over 40 percent.

In a video posted on the US Embassy in Harare Facebook page on Monday, US
Ambassador to Zimbabwe, Harry K. Thomas Jr said: "To date, Zimbabwe has welcomed
more than 9 000 refugees and we thank the Government of Zimbabwe for honouring
its international commitments by providing a safe place for refugees."

He made the remarks while announcing that US President Barack Obama was expected
to host a summit on the refugee crisis on the sidelines of the United Nations
General Assembly meeting yesterday.

President Mugabe attended the United Nations Summit for Refugees and Migrants on
Monday where leaders adopted a New York declaration that calls on countries to
protect the human rights of the world's more than 65 million refugees, increase
humanitarian aid, help with resettlement, standardise responses and provide
better education and employment opportunities for displaced people.

Ambassador Thomas Jr said the goal of the summit was to expand a humanitarian
safety net and create more long-term opportunities for refugees.

"Displaced from their homes, families and communities, these are people who have
experienced terrible loss, face uncertain futures and look to the rest of the
world, to us for support and hope," he said.

Addressing world leaders at the UN meeting on Monday, President Mugabe said the
selfish interests of a few nations were the root cause of the large-scale
displacement of people the world over.

He said the adoption of the New York Declaration on Refugees and Migrants was a
step in the right direction in ensuring dignity for all.

President Mugabe said, "Over the past year, we have witnessed harrowing images
of refugees risking their lives to flee the dire realities in their countries of
origin. We have been equally shocked at the hostile reception refugees have
often been subjected to.

"Against this background, we are pleased at the convening of this important
meeting that allows us to explore a collective blueprint for dealing with large
movements of refugees and migrants. We are also pleased that the New York
Declaration for Refugees and Migrants, highlights the importance of addressing
the root cause of the large movements.

"We have noted that a large portion of refugees that have landed on European
shores originated from countries in armed conflict such as Afghanistan, Iraq,
Libya and Syria.

"We therefore are convinced that a return to the UN Charter ideals of saving
succeeding generations from the scourge of war and refraining from using armed
force is critical in addressing the root cause of large movements of refugees."

He said the predilection to military force by some countries had needlessly
created a refugee crisis.

"More often than not, Member States have been too keen to resort to force
without exhausting peaceful means. This hegemonic military doctrine and
adventurism, fuelled by a desire to achieve the narrow national interests of a
powerful few, is the root of the proliferation of armed conflicts which have
spawned so many refugees today."

"We have a collective responsibility to change the narrative on migrants and
migration in our countries. Many countries owe their success in business and
scientific prowess to the invaluable contributions of migrants and refugees.

"We commend those states that have, despite their own limitations, opened their
borders to migrant communities. We in Zimbabwe have hosted many refugees from
conflict-affected countries. We call for a balanced focus on the humanitarian
plight of migrants and refugees world over," said President Mugabe who is in New
York for the 71st UN General Assembly.

He is accompanied by First Lady Amai Grace Mugabe, Foreign Affairs Minister
Simbarashe Mumbengegwi and, Tourism and Hospitality Industry Minister Dr Walter
Mzembi and other senior Government officials.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              251 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 21, 2016 Wednesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Brazil's New President, Michel Temer, Defends Impeachment of Dilma Rousseff

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 600 words


In his first speech before the United Nations General Assembly, Brazil's new
president, Michel Temer, defended on Tuesday the contentious impeachment
proceedings that ousted his predecessor, Dilma Rousseff, and placed him in
power.

''Everything happened with absolute respect for the constitutional order,'' said
Mr. Temer, 75, a career politician who recently emerged victorious from a power
struggle that consumed the country's political establishment. He called the
impeachment process, which Ms. Rousseff claimed was an illegitimate usurpation
of power, ''an example for the world.''

Mr. Temer also praised Brazil's diversity in the speech, without touching on the
criticism he received for naming an all-white cabinet in a country where more
than half the population defines itself as black or mixed-race. He spoke
positively about recent political shifts in Latin America, including the thawing
of ties between the United States and Cuba and the deal between Colombia's
government and the country's largest rebel group to end the longest-running war
in the Americas.

''Temer's main objective is to put the impeachment issue behind him and start
with a clean slate in the international arena,'' said Geraldo Zahran, a
professor of international relations at the Pontifical Catholic University of
São Paulo.

Turning to Brazil's profile on the global stage, which had grown less prominent
under Ms. Rousseff, Mr. Temer spoke about Brazil's longstanding efforts to
strengthen commercial and diplomatic ties with African countries. He said that
he was looking forward to hosting a summit meeting of Portuguese-speaking
countries, six of which are African.

''Brazil looks to Africa with friendship and respect, with the aim of advancing
projects that bring us even closer together,'' Mr. Temer said.

Mr. Temer also emphasized that Brazil had opened its doors to refugees. His
comments came a day after Brazilian human rights groups blasted him for claiming
that Brazil has received more than 95,000 refugees when official statistics
place the number of refugees in the country at about 8,800.

Government officials explained that Mr. Temer had included in his figures tens
of thousands of Haitians who have made their way to Brazil on humanitarian
visas.

Brazilian analysts noted that Mr. Temer's positions on various international
issues, including his support for a two-state solution for the
Israel-Palestinian conflict, his condemnation of xenophobic policies and his
call to end the United States' trade embargo against Cuba, stand in contrast to
views held by conservative politicians like Donald J. Trump, the Republican
nominee in the United States.

''This might shock some on the left in Brazil who consider Temer to be on the
extreme right,'' said Guga Chacra, a prominent Brazilian journalist and
political commentator based in New York. ''Temer was multicultural and globalist
in his U.N. speech, like Obama.''

Mr. Temer notably did not make anticorruption measures a priority in his speech,
despite the huge graft scandals upending Brazil over the last two years. While
Mr. Temer is in New York this week, his allies in Congress tried to hold a vote
on a bill that would grant amnesty to politicians engulfed in scandals over
illegal campaign financing.

Mr. Temer's administration, which took power in May, has come under fire over
testimony and secret recordings that have revealed ambitions to stifle
corruption inquiries. Mr. Temer himself has been found guilty of violating
campaign finance limits, a conviction that could make him ineligible to run for
office for eight years.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/21/world/americas/
michel-temer-brazil-unga-2016-united-nations.html

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              252 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 21, 2016 Wednesday

Washington: Remarks by President Obama at Leaders Summit on Refugees

LENGTH: 2359  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: White House Administration has issued the following news release:



 Thank you.  (Applause.)  Yusra, we could not be prouder of you -- not just for
the great introduction, but more importantly, for your courage and your
resilience and the great example that you're setting for children everywhere,
including your eight-year-old sister, who I know must look up to you.
(Applause.)





 Good afternoon.  Mr. Secretary General; Your Excellencies, we are here because,
right now, in crowded camps and cities around the world, there are families --
from Darfur in Chad, Palestinians in Lebanon, Afghans in Pakistan, Colombians in
Ecuador -- who've endured years -- in some cases, decades -- as refugees,
surviving on rations and aid, and who dream of someday, somehow, having a home
of their own.



 We're here because, right now, there are young girls -- like Yusra, like my
daughters -- who are just as precious and just as gifted -- like the 16-year-old
refugee from Myanmar that I met in Malaysia -- who've suffered unspeakable abuse
at the hands of traffickers, modern day slavery, girls who pray at night that
someone might rescue them from their torment.  There are boys, fleeing the
fighting in South Sudan, violence in Central America, wars in North Africa and
the Middle East -- who are at the mercy of criminals who pack them into trucks
or makeshift rafts, and who die on treacherous seas -- like little Alan Kurdi
from Syria, lifeless, face down on a Turkish beach, in his red shirt and blue
pants.



 We are here because, right now, there are mothers separated from their children
-- like the woman in a camp in Greece, who held on to her family photographs,
heard her children cry on the phone, and who said "my breath is my
children&hellip;every day I am dying 10, 20, 30 times."  We're here because
there are fathers who simply want to build a new life and provide for their
families -- like Refaai Hamo, from Syria, who lost his wife and daughter in the
war, who we welcomed to America, and who says, "I still think I have a chance to
make a difference in the world."



 Mr. Secretary General; heads of state and heads of government; distinguished
guests; ladies and gentlemen:  As you saw in the video, we are facing a crisis
of epic proportions.  More than 65 million people have been driven from their
homes -- which is more than any time since the Second World War.  Among them are
more than 21 million refugees who have fled their countries -- everything and
everyone they've ever known, fleeing with a suitcase or the clothes on their
back.



 And I'm here today -- I called this summit -- because this crisis is one of the
most urgent tests of our time -- our capacity for collective action.  To test,
first and foremost, our ability to end conflicts, because so many of the world's
refugees come from just three countries ravaged by war -- Syria, Afghanistan and
Somalia.



 And I said today to the General Assembly, the mentality that allows for
violence with impunity is something we cannot excuse.  And collectively, we
continue to make excuses.  It's not the subject of this summit, but we all know
that what is happening in Syria, for example, is unacceptable.  And we are not
as unified as we should be in pushing to make it stop.



 It's a test of our international system where all nations ought to share in our
collective responsibilities, because the vast majority of refugees are hosted by
just 10 countries who are bearing a very heavy burden -- among them Turkey,
Pakistan, Lebanon, Iran, Ethiopia.  Countries that often have fewer resources
than many of those who are doing little or nothing.



 It is a crisis of our shared security.  Not because refugees are a threat.
Refugees, most of whom are women and children, are often fleeing war and
terrorism.  They are victims.  They're families who want to be safe and to work,
be good citizens and contribute to their country -- I was talking to Yusra --
she's now in Germany.  She already speaks some English.  Now she's trying to
learn German -- who are interested in assimilating and contributing to the
society in which they find themselves.



 In recent years, in the United States, we've worked to put in intensive
screening and security checks, so we can welcome refugees and ensure our
security -- in fact, refugees are subject to more rigorous screening than the
average tourist.  We've seen in America, hardworking, patriotic refugees serve
in our military, and start new businesses and help revitalize communities.  I
believe refugees can make us stronger.



 So the challenge to our security is because when desperate refugees pay
cold-hearted traffickers for passage, it funds the same criminals who are
smuggling arms and drugs and children.  When nations with their own internal
difficulties find themselves hosting massive refugee populations for years on
end, it can risk more instability.  It oftentimes surfaces tensions in our
society when we have disorderly and disproportionate migration into some
countries that skews our politics and is subject to demagoguery.



 And if we were to turn refugees away simply because of their background or
religion, or, for example, because they are Muslim, then we would be reinforcing
terrorist propaganda that nations like my own are somehow opposed to Islam,
which is an ugly lie that must be rejected in all of our countries by upholding
the values of pluralism and diversity.



 And finally, this crisis is a test of our common humanity -- whether we give in
to suspicion and fear and build walls, or whether we see ourselves in another.
Those girls being trafficked and tortured, they could be our daughters.  That
little boy on the beach could be our son or our grandson.  We cannot avert our
eyes or turn our backs.  To slam the door in the face of these families would
betray our deepest values.  It would deny our own heritage as nations, including
the United States of America, that have been built by immigrants and refugees.
And it would be to ignore a teaching at the heart of so many faiths that we do
unto others as we would have them do unto us; that we welcome the stranger in
our midst.  And just as failure to act in the past -- for example, by turning
away Jews fleeing Nazi Germany -- is a stain on our collective conscience, I
believe history will judge us harshly if we do not rise to this moment.



 First and foremost, we must recognize that refugees are a symptom of larger
failures -- be it war, ethnic tensions, or persecution.  If we truly want to
address the crisis, wars like the savagery in Syria must be brought to an end --
and it will be brought to an end through political settlement and diplomacy, and
not simply by bombing.



 We have to insist on greater investments in development and education and
democratic institutions -- the lack of which fuels so much of the instability we
see in the world.  And we need to continue to speak up for justice and equality,
and insist that the universal human rights of every person are upheld,
everywhere.



 In the face of this crisis, with what often seems grim news, we are grateful
for the heroic work of so many around the world. Leaders who, often in the face
of difficult politics at home, welcome refugees as new neighbors.  Businesses,
such as those I met with right before I came here, which had made commitments
worth more than $650 million to empower refugees.  International institutions
and faith groups and NGOs, including InterAction -- the alliance of American
NGOs -- whose members will invest more than $1.2 billion over the next three
years to assist the world's displaced people and refugees.



 As Americans, we're determined to do our part.  The United Nations [United
States] is the largest single donor of humanitarian aid around the world,
including to refugees and to the people of Syria.  We resettle more refugees
than any other nation.  As President, I've increased the number of refugees we
are resettling to 85,000 this year, which includes 10,000 Syrian refugees -- a
goal we've exceeded even as we've upheld our rigorous screening.  And I called
for this summit because we all have to do more.



 I want to thank our co-hosts, Secretary General Ban, and Jordan.  Obviously,
Jordan is carrying an enormous burden as a consequence of the conflict, and we
are grateful for His Majesty and the work that they've done.  Mexico, which is
absorbing a great number of refugees from Central America.  Sweden, which has
made enormous humanitarian contributions in addition to taking on refugees.
Germany and Canada -- two countries that have gone above and beyond in providing
support for refugees.  And I want to personally thank Chancellor Merkel and
Prime Minister Trudeau, and the people of both those countries -- because the
politics sometimes can be hard, but it's the right thing to do.  And Ethiopia,
which as was noted in the video, bears an enormous burden.



 I also want to thank the more than 50 nations and organizations participating
in this summit for making tangible, concrete commitments.  Collectively, our
nations have increased our contributions to humanitarian organizations and U.N.
appeals this year by some $4.5 billion, and that includes a $1 billion increase
this year from the United States.  This will translate concretely into
lifesaving food, and medicine, and clothing, and shelter.



 But since we can't just keep on doing the same thing the same way -- allowing
refugees to languish in camps, disconnected from society -- we've also been
working with the World Bank to create new financing facilities to assist
countries hosting refugees build schools and economic opportunities.  As part of
these efforts, the United States will contribute at least $50 million to help
middle-income countries, and we'll do more to help low-income countries so that
refugees and their host communities can flourish and grow stronger together.
The refugees in places like Ecuador or Kenya don't always get as much attention
as some of the recent migrations, but they need help too.  And that's part of
our goal here.



 Collectively, our nations are roughly doubling the number of refugees that we
admit to our countries to more than 360,000 this year.  Again, I want to
especially commend Germany, Canada, Austria, the Netherlands and Australia for
their continued leadership, as well countries like Argentina and Portugal for
their new commitments.  And today, I'm proud to announce that the United States
will continue our leadership role.  In the coming fiscal year, starting next
week, the United States will welcome and resettle 110,000 refugees from around
the world -- which is a nearly 60 percent increase over 2015.  We intend to do
it right, and we will do it safely.



 Collectively, the major commitments by Turkey, Thailand, Chad and Jordan will
help more than one million children who are refugees get an education; will help
one million refugees get training, new skills or find a job.  And in all of this
work, we cannot forget those who are often the most vulnerable to abuse -- young
girls and women.  So a key part of our efforts must be a renewed commitment to
stopping sexual violence and forced marriage.  And we need to do more to truly
empower women and girls -- because every girl deserves the chance to grow and be
safe, and every woman should have her human rights and dignity upheld.



 So I'm heartened by the commitments that have been made here today.  They will
help save lives.  But we're going to have to be honest -- it's still not enough;
not sufficient for a crisis of this magnitude.  And that's why I believe this
summit must be the beginning of a new global movement where everybody does more:
More nations donating more assistance and accepting more refugees.  More
institutions and NGOs finding new ways to deliver aid.  More businesses
contributing their expertise.  More faith groups making this work their own.
More young people demanding action.  More states and cities and towns coming
forward and saying, yes, we will open our communities to our fellow human beings
in need.  And more pressure on those countries that are willing to perpetrate
violence on their own citizens in pursuit of power that carries such a heavy
human toll.



 We can learn from a young boy named Alex, who lives not far from here in
Scarsdale, New York.  Last month, like all of us, Alex saw that heartbreaking
image -- five-year-old Omran Daqneesh in Aleppo, Syria, sitting in that
ambulance, silent and in shock, trying to wipe the blood from his hands.



 And here in New York, Alex, who is just six years old, sat down and wrote me a
letter.  And he said, he wanted Omran to come live with him and his family.
"Since he won't bring toys," Alex wrote, "I will share my bike and I will teach
him how to ride it.  I will teach him addition and subtraction.  My little
sister will be collecting butterflies and fireflies for him&hellip;We can all
play together.  We will give him a family and he will be our brother."



 Those are the words of a six-year-old boy.  He teaches us a lot.  (Applause.)




 The humanity that a young child can display, who hasn't learned to be cynical,
or suspicious, or fearful of other people because of where they're from, or how
they look, or how they pray, and who just understands the notion of treating
somebody that is like him with compassion, with kindness -- we can all learn
from Alex.  Imagine the suffering we could ease, and the lives we could save,
and what our world would look like if, seeing a child who's hurting anywhere in
the world, we say, "We will give him a family and he will be our brother."



 We spend, so many of us in politics and in leadership, so much time devoted to
ascending the ladders of power.  We spend time maintaining it; we spend time
trying to win over public opinion.  And maybe sometimes we forget that the only
rationale for doing it is to help that little boy.  I hope and pray that we
remember.



 I appreciate all of your support.  Thank you.  (Applause.)



 END





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              253 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           Cameroon Tribune (Yaoundé)

                               September 20, 2016

Obama Invites Biya To U.S.-Africa Business Forum

BYLINE: Lukong Pius Nyuylime

LENGTH: 310 words


The invitation was extended to the Head of State on Friday, September 16, during
an audience at the Unity Palace.

The President's departure to the 71st UN General assembly last Friday, September
16, was preceded by an approximately one-hour audience at the Unity Palace which
he accorded, Michael Hoza, United States Ambassador to Cameroon. In that
audience, the Head of State accepted the invitation to the US-Africa Business
Forum extended to him by his US counterpart, President Barack Obama. "President
Paul Biya has accepted the invitation to the US-Africa Business Forum with
President Obama and also the Refugee Summit.

We think this is a wonderful opportunity for our two countries and for the Heads
of State to have a conversation about the future of bilateral relationship",
Hoza told reporters after the audience. The US-Africa Business Forum which will
be taking place on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly is about US business
investment in Africa, he said, underscoring the fact that companies in his
country have many business investments in Cameroon such as General Electric and
Boeing and that they hope to see more of such investments by American companies
in the days ahead.

President Biya, he said, has equally been invited to the Refugee Summit. "As you
know, Cameroon is host to so many refugees from the conflicts on her borders.
And Cameroon is courageous in supporting these refugees. President Biya's
attendance to this summit will be an opportunity for President Obama to thank
the Cameroonian people for all that they do for refugees", he said. The two
Presidents, he said, will use the occasion to discuss the future of relationship
between the two countries. "The US has been involved in the fight against Boko
Haram and has helped the security forces of Cameroon to ensure the security of
the Cameroonian people", he concluded.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              254 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                              The Herald (Harare)

                               September 20, 2016

President Hails Declaration On Refugees, Migrants

LENGTH: 543 words


Mabasa Sasa at the UNITED NATIONS, New York THE selfish interests of a few
nations are the root cause of the large-scale displacement of people the world
over, and yesterday's adoption of the New York Declaration on Refugees and
Migrants is a step in the right direction in ensuring dignity for all, President
Mugabe has said. He was addressing world leaders at the United Nations
headquarters here yesterday as the organisation adopted a key declaration in the
midst of a growing

refugee crisis whose roots lie in American and European destabilisation of
fragile states.

Though not legally binding, the declaration calls on countries to protect the
human rights of the world's more than 65 million refugees, increase humanitarian
aid, help with resettlement, standardise responses and provide better education
and employment opportunities for displaced people.

President Mugabe said, "Over the past year we have witnessed harrowing images of
refugees risking their lives to flee the dire realities in their countries of
origin. We have been equally shocked at the hostile reception refugees have
often been subjected to.

"Against this background, we are pleased at the convening of this important
meeting that allows us to explore a collective blueprint for dealing with large
movements of refugees and migrants. We are also pleased that the New York
Declaration for Refugees and Migrants highlights the importance of addressing
the root cause of the large movements."

He went on: "We have noted that a large portion of refugees that have landed on
European shores originated from countries in armed conflict such as Afghanistan,
Iraq, Libya and Syria.

"We therefore are convinced that a return to the UN Charter ideals of saving
succeeding generations from the scourge of war and refraining from using armed
force is critical in addressing the root cause of large movements of refugees."

He said the predilection to military force by some countries had needlessly
created a refugee crisis.

"More often than not, member states have been too keen to resort to force
without exhausting peaceful means. This hegemonic military doctrine and
adventurism, fuelled by a desire to achieve the narrow national interests of a
powerful few, is the root of the proliferation of armed conflicts which have
spawned so many refugees today."

President Mugabe also said the responses to an influx of refugees had seen
certain countries, within the context of supposedly combatting terrorism,
treating displaced people and migrants as terrorists.

"We have a collective responsibility to change the narrative on migrants and
migration in our countries. Many countries owe their success in business and
scientific prowess to the invaluable contributions of migrants and refugees.

"We commend those states that have, despite their own limitations, opened their
borders to migrant communities. We in Zimbabwe have hosted many refugees from
conflict-affected countries. We call for a balanced focus on the humanitarian
plight of migrants and refugees world over."

President Mugabe is in New York for the 71st UN General Assembly, and he is
accompanied by First Lady Amai Grace Mugabe, Foreign Affairs Minister Simbarashe
Mumbengegwi and Tourism and Hospitality Industry Minister Dr Walter Mzembi.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              255 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 19, 2016 Monday

Renewing the United States' Global Commitment to Refugee Resettlement

LENGTH: 1656  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: Center for American Progress has issued the following news release:




 The world is currently in the midst of the greatest refugee challenge in modern
history. According to the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees, or UNHCR, more
than 65 million people were displaced across the globe as of the end of 2015--up
from 59.5 million people a year earlier. Of those, more than 21 million are
refugees, outside their home countries and in need of protection.





 The most public face of the crisis has been the civil war in Syria, which,
according to the UNHCR, has created nearly 5 million registered refugees so far.
Beyond Syria, many other conflicts still smolder, pushing millions of people out
of countries ranging from Somalia, Nigeria, and the Central African Republic to
South Sudan, Afghanistan, and Myanmar, as well as the Northern Triangle
countries of Central America--Honduras, El Salvador, and Guatemala--in the
United States' own backyard.



 With this backdrop, the United Nations is hosting a Summit for Refugees and
Migrants today in New York, followed tomorrow by an Obama administration-led
Leaders' Summit on Refugees. Both events seek to galvanize the world community
to do more to protect refugees, with the administration's event specifically
geared toward securing commitments from nations to increase funding for and
resettlement of refugees.



 These two summits represent the international community's increasing
recognition that more needs to be done to help this unprecedented wave of
displaced people. It also illustrates the Obama administration's leadership in
pushing the world to increase support and funding for refugee resettlement. As
the United States enters these two summits, it is time for the nation to
redouble its own commitment to resettling refugees--from those fleeing violence
in nearby nations to those thousands of miles away overseas.

 Raising the overall number of refugees the U.S. admits



 After a slow start in fiscal year 2016--in which, by the end of May, the United
States had only resettled one-quarter of its stated commitment of 10,000 Syrian
refugees--the administration announced on August 29 that it had hit its target.
According to the administration's report to Congress laying out its 2017
resettlement goals--the "Proposed Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2017"--the
administration now believes it will surpass its original goal, bringing in up to
13,000 Syrians by the end of September.



 Most importantly, the report to Congress makes clear that the United States
will surpass even the commitment made by Secretary of State John Kerry in
September 2015 to bring in 100,000 refugees in FY 2017: It raises the target for
resettlement in FY 2017 to 110,000 refugees. This change--representing a roughly
29 percent increase from the FY 2016 admissions--is a welcome one and
illustrates a commitment from the administration to continuously reassess and
expand resettlement to match the needs of the evolving global crisis of
displaced people. Nonetheless, even these numbers represent only a drop in the
bucket. The UNHCR, for example, estimates that at least 10 percent of all Syrian
refugees will need to be resettled, not to mention the millions of other
refugees worldwide.



 Given the scale of the Syrian crisis, expanding the number of refugees taken
into the United States is critical. But while the report to Congress calls for
only a slight increase in regional arrivals from the Near East and South
Asia--the region that encompasses Syrian admissions--and says that it will aim
to admit a "significantly higher number" of Syrians in FY 2017 than in 2016, it
does not set out a target for Syrian admissions to the United States. Human
Rights First, for example, has called for the administration to admit 100,000
Syrians next year in addition to 100,000 refugees from the rest of the world.



 Whatever number of Syrians the administration ultimately decides to admit, it
should view the commitment to resettling 110,000 total refugees in FY 2017 as a
floor, rather than a ceiling, and should do everything in its power to increase
the number of refugees admitted.

 Protecting asylum seekers in the Northern Hemisphere



 While the full agenda and details of the administration's leaders' summit have
not yet been made public, the material that has been released focuses primarily
on the needs of resettling refugees from overseas, with no mention of asylum
seekers the United States' own backyard. U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations
Samantha Power, for example, in her speech in late June introducing the Leaders'
Summit, focused primarily on Syria and parts of Africa--without mentioning the
extreme violence and structural poverty pushing children and families out of the
Northern Triangle of Central America.



 As Ambassador Power stated, "People do not become refugees by choice ... they
flee because their lives are at risk." This is a situation that women and
children in Honduras, El Salvador, and Guatemala know intimately. These
countries are three of the most violent in the world, with particularly high
rates of femicide--the killing of women and girls. Since FY 2014, nearly 157,000
children and 167,000 families have fled to the United States. Over the past few
months, the number of people from the region seeking asylum in the United States
has risen steadily.



 In response to the rising number of asylum seekers, the administration
announced in late July that it would work with the UNHCR to expand in-country
and regional refugee processing in Central America to bolster its capacity to
identify and protect people who are in danger in the Northern Triangle. In
announcing the program, Deputy Homeland Security Adviser Amy Pope made it clear
that "Our current efforts to date have been insufficient to address the number
of people who may have legitimate refugee claims."



 While the July announcement was a welcome shift toward recognizing the
situation in the Northern Triangle as a true refugee crisis, as Pope's quote
underscores, the United States has not done enough in the region. Even with the
new regional processing program, the report to Congress only calls for an
increase in the number of resettlement slots for refugees from all of Latin
America and the Caribbean from 3,000 to 5,000. This represents only a fraction
of the number of people fleeing the region.



 As the Center for American Progress has previously argued, the situation in
Honduras, El Salvador, and Guatemala can be managed in an orderly fashion, but
doing so will require time and a concerted effort to tackle the root causes of
violence and structural poverty in the region. In the meantime, the United
States can and should do more to ensure that all asylum seekers that reach its
borders are afforded full and fair due process to make their claim for
protection. The nation should also build upon its regional resettlement efforts
and explore ways to partner with the UNHCR and other nations in the Western
Hemisphere to resettle a greater number of people from the Northern Triangle.

 Funding is critical, and the ball is in Congress' court



 While the Obama administration has stepped up to raise the numbers of refugees
to be resettled, Congress has not, to date, provided a corresponding increase in
the funds available to ensure that these individuals are able to resettle
smoothly, find livelihoods, and become self-sufficient soon after arrival--a key
goal of the U.S. refugee program.



 The funding Congress appropriated for FY 2016 was based on an estimate of only
75,000 refugees being resettled. When the administration raised its target to
85,000 refugees, Congress did not increase the funding to match. This means that
over the past year, the government has had to resettle more refugees with fewer
funds. To make matters worse, Congress will most likely only fund the government
for the remainder of the calendar year using a continuing resolution--a stopgap,
short-term funding bill rather than a full-year appropriation--likely holding
the amount of funding for resettlement to FY 2016 levels. This will become all
the more difficult to sustain as the number of refugees admitted grows to
110,000.



 Take the Office of Refugee Resettlement, or ORR, as an example. This agency
helps integrate newly arrived refugees into American life and society, providing
financial and medical assistance, social work and case management, and language
and job training programs. It also has primary responsibility for the housing
and care of unaccompanied children who arrive in the United States. In FY 2016,
the ORR received a little less than $1.7 billion to accomplish these tasks. With
an increase in the numbers of both refugees being resettled and unaccompanied
children arriving, however, ORR's budget is stretched thin.



 The administration's FY 2017 budget, based on the original goal of resettling
100,000 refugees, calls for the ORR to receive about $2.2 billion, while Refugee
Council USA--the main umbrella group for organizations working to resettle and
protect refugees--has called for the ORR to receive $2.95 billion. Either way,
Congress must come together to provide more funding to the agency.

 Conclusion



 This week's U.N. and administration summits should galvanize the international
community to do more to protect and resettle refugees around the world. By
shining a spotlight on the issue, the administration is continuing America's
long-standing position as a beacon of safety for--in the words of poet Emma
Lazarus--the "huddled masses yearning to breathe free." By expanding the U.S.
commitment to Syrian refugees, increasing protecting for asylum seekers from the
Northern Triangle, and fully funding the refugee program, Congress and the
administration can continue to provide a much-needed leadership example for the
rest of the world to follow.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolution.com

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              256 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 19, 2016 Monday

Renewing the United States' Global Commitment to Refugee Resettlement

LENGTH: 1656  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: Center for American Progress has issued the following news release:




 The world is currently in the midst of the greatest refugee challenge in modern
history. According to the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees, or UNHCR, more
than 65 million people were displaced across the globe as of the end of 2015--up
from 59.5 million people a year earlier. Of those, more than 21 million are
refugees, outside their home countries and in need of protection.





 The most public face of the crisis has been the civil war in Syria, which,
according to the UNHCR, has created nearly 5 million registered refugees so far.
Beyond Syria, many other conflicts still smolder, pushing millions of people out
of countries ranging from Somalia, Nigeria, and the Central African Republic to
South Sudan, Afghanistan, and Myanmar, as well as the Northern Triangle
countries of Central America--Honduras, El Salvador, and Guatemala--in the
United States' own backyard.



 With this backdrop, the United Nations is hosting a Summit for Refugees and
Migrants today in New York, followed tomorrow by an Obama administration-led
Leaders' Summit on Refugees. Both events seek to galvanize the world community
to do more to protect refugees, with the administration's event specifically
geared toward securing commitments from nations to increase funding for and
resettlement of refugees.



 These two summits represent the international community's increasing
recognition that more needs to be done to help this unprecedented wave of
displaced people. It also illustrates the Obama administration's leadership in
pushing the world to increase support and funding for refugee resettlement. As
the United States enters these two summits, it is time for the nation to
redouble its own commitment to resettling refugees--from those fleeing violence
in nearby nations to those thousands of miles away overseas.

 Raising the overall number of refugees the U.S. admits



 After a slow start in fiscal year 2016--in which, by the end of May, the United
States had only resettled one-quarter of its stated commitment of 10,000 Syrian
refugees--the administration announced on August 29 that it had hit its target.
According to the administration's report to Congress laying out its 2017
resettlement goals--the "Proposed Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2017"--the
administration now believes it will surpass its original goal, bringing in up to
13,000 Syrians by the end of September.



 Most importantly, the report to Congress makes clear that the United States
will surpass even the commitment made by Secretary of State John Kerry in
September 2015 to bring in 100,000 refugees in FY 2017: It raises the target for
resettlement in FY 2017 to 110,000 refugees. This change--representing a roughly
29 percent increase from the FY 2016 admissions--is a welcome one and
illustrates a commitment from the administration to continuously reassess and
expand resettlement to match the needs of the evolving global crisis of
displaced people. Nonetheless, even these numbers represent only a drop in the
bucket. The UNHCR, for example, estimates that at least 10 percent of all Syrian
refugees will need to be resettled, not to mention the millions of other
refugees worldwide.



 Given the scale of the Syrian crisis, expanding the number of refugees taken
into the United States is critical. But while the report to Congress calls for
only a slight increase in regional arrivals from the Near East and South
Asia--the region that encompasses Syrian admissions--and says that it will aim
to admit a "significantly higher number" of Syrians in FY 2017 than in 2016, it
does not set out a target for Syrian admissions to the United States. Human
Rights First, for example, has called for the administration to admit 100,000
Syrians next year in addition to 100,000 refugees from the rest of the world.



 Whatever number of Syrians the administration ultimately decides to admit, it
should view the commitment to resettling 110,000 total refugees in FY 2017 as a
floor, rather than a ceiling, and should do everything in its power to increase
the number of refugees admitted.

 Protecting asylum seekers in the Northern Hemisphere



 While the full agenda and details of the administration's leaders' summit have
not yet been made public, the material that has been released focuses primarily
on the needs of resettling refugees from overseas, with no mention of asylum
seekers the United States' own backyard. U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations
Samantha Power, for example, in her speech in late June introducing the Leaders'
Summit, focused primarily on Syria and parts of Africa--without mentioning the
extreme violence and structural poverty pushing children and families out of the
Northern Triangle of Central America.



 As Ambassador Power stated, "People do not become refugees by choice ... they
flee because their lives are at risk." This is a situation that women and
children in Honduras, El Salvador, and Guatemala know intimately. These
countries are three of the most violent in the world, with particularly high
rates of femicide--the killing of women and girls. Since FY 2014, nearly 157,000
children and 167,000 families have fled to the United States. Over the past few
months, the number of people from the region seeking asylum in the United States
has risen steadily.



 In response to the rising number of asylum seekers, the administration
announced in late July that it would work with the UNHCR to expand in-country
and regional refugee processing in Central America to bolster its capacity to
identify and protect people who are in danger in the Northern Triangle. In
announcing the program, Deputy Homeland Security Adviser Amy Pope made it clear
that "Our current efforts to date have been insufficient to address the number
of people who may have legitimate refugee claims."



 While the July announcement was a welcome shift toward recognizing the
situation in the Northern Triangle as a true refugee crisis, as Pope's quote
underscores, the United States has not done enough in the region. Even with the
new regional processing program, the report to Congress only calls for an
increase in the number of resettlement slots for refugees from all of Latin
America and the Caribbean from 3,000 to 5,000. This represents only a fraction
of the number of people fleeing the region.



 As the Center for American Progress has previously argued, the situation in
Honduras, El Salvador, and Guatemala can be managed in an orderly fashion, but
doing so will require time and a concerted effort to tackle the root causes of
violence and structural poverty in the region. In the meantime, the United
States can and should do more to ensure that all asylum seekers that reach its
borders are afforded full and fair due process to make their claim for
protection. The nation should also build upon its regional resettlement efforts
and explore ways to partner with the UNHCR and other nations in the Western
Hemisphere to resettle a greater number of people from the Northern Triangle.

 Funding is critical, and the ball is in Congress' court



 While the Obama administration has stepped up to raise the numbers of refugees
to be resettled, Congress has not, to date, provided a corresponding increase in
the funds available to ensure that these individuals are able to resettle
smoothly, find livelihoods, and become self-sufficient soon after arrival--a key
goal of the U.S. refugee program.



 The funding Congress appropriated for FY 2016 was based on an estimate of only
75,000 refugees being resettled. When the administration raised its target to
85,000 refugees, Congress did not increase the funding to match. This means that
over the past year, the government has had to resettle more refugees with fewer
funds. To make matters worse, Congress will most likely only fund the government
for the remainder of the calendar year using a continuing resolution--a stopgap,
short-term funding bill rather than a full-year appropriation--likely holding
the amount of funding for resettlement to FY 2016 levels. This will become all
the more difficult to sustain as the number of refugees admitted grows to
110,000.



 Take the Office of Refugee Resettlement, or ORR, as an example. This agency
helps integrate newly arrived refugees into American life and society, providing
financial and medical assistance, social work and case management, and language
and job training programs. It also has primary responsibility for the housing
and care of unaccompanied children who arrive in the United States. In FY 2016,
the ORR received a little less than $1.7 billion to accomplish these tasks. With
an increase in the numbers of both refugees being resettled and unaccompanied
children arriving, however, ORR's budget is stretched thin.



 The administration's FY 2017 budget, based on the original goal of resettling
100,000 refugees, calls for the ORR to receive about $2.2 billion, while Refugee
Council USA--the main umbrella group for organizations working to resettle and
protect refugees--has called for the ORR to receive $2.95 billion. Either way,
Congress must come together to provide more funding to the agency.

 Conclusion



 This week's U.N. and administration summits should galvanize the international
community to do more to protect and resettle refugees around the world. By
shining a spotlight on the issue, the administration is continuing America's
long-standing position as a beacon of safety for--in the words of poet Emma
Lazarus--the "huddled masses yearning to breathe free." By expanding the U.S.
commitment to Syrian refugees, increasing protecting for asylum seekers from the
Northern Triangle, and fully funding the refugee program, Congress and the
administration can continue to provide a much-needed leadership example for the
rest of the world to follow.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolution.com

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              257 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 19, 2016 Monday

Washington: Babin Slams Administration's Plan to Recklessly Expand Refugee
Influx

LENGTH: 399  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: Office of the MP Brian Babin has issued the following news release:




 U.S. Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36), who is organizing support for a new effort in
Congress to put a moratorium on refugees coming from terrorist hotbeds of Syria,
the Middle East, and North Africa in the upcoming spending bill, issued the
following statement today in response to President Obama's announcement that he
plans to raise the number of refugees admitted to the U.S. to 110,000 and bring
in a "significantly higher" number of Syrian refugees in the next fiscal year:





 "By doubling down and defying warnings from his own security experts, the
President is further jeopardizing the security and well-being of each and every
person in the United States. As someone who has been working tirelessly to stop
this madness for over a year, I am deeply alarmed and troubled by this latest
announcement and the reckless expansion of America's broken U.N.-led refugee
resettlement program.



 "As the world has changed and our national security threats have grown, it is
commonsense to adjust to these evolving threats. It is past due that we
reevaluate our refugee program.  We can do humanitarian relief for these folks
close to their home and take affirmative steps so that they can return to their
homelands.



 "As elected officials we have a sworn duty to act in the best interests of the
American people - not the United Nations. The upcoming spending bill presents
Congress with a new opportunity to reassert its authority over the refugee
program and fix this gaping hole in our national security. Since this refugee
law was enacted in the 1980s by Senator Ted Kennedy, Congress has gradually
ceded its authority to the President, and with national security and billions of
dollars in deficit spending on the line, it is time for Congress to take back
oversight of this program."



 In July 2015, Rep. Babin introduced the Resettlement Accountability National
Security Act (H.R. 3314), which is now supported by 85 of his colleagues, to
pause the refugee resettlement program until Congress (1) completes a full
national security review to make sure terrorists are not being let into the U.S.
and (2) gets a full accounting of the costs of the refugee program to federal,
state and local taxpayers.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              258 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                          September 15, 2016 Thursday

White House goal: 110,000 refugees

BYLINE: By Josh Lederman Associated Press

SECTION: WASHINGTON_; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 371 words


WASHINGTON -- The United States will strive to take in 110,000 refugees from
around the world in the coming year, the White House said Wednesday, in what
would be a nearly 30 percent increase from the 85,000 allowed in over the
previous year.

The increase reflects continuing concern about the refugee crisis stemming from
Syria's civil war and conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. Yet it's still far
short of what advocacy groups say is needed to address an unprecedented crisis
that saw some 1 million people pour into Europe alone last year.

Of the 110,000, 40,000 will come from the Middle East and South Asia, where the
origins of the crisis have been most pronounced.

An additional 35,000 will come from Africa, 12,000 from East Asia, 4,000 from
Europe and 5,000 from Latin America and the Caribbean, White House spokesman
Josh Earnest said.

The administration did not release a country-specific breakdown. The total
includes 14,000 unallocated slots that can be given to refugees from any region
once Congress is notified.

Secretary of State John Kerry had previously suggested that the U.S. target
would climb to 100,000 in the coming year, but that the figure was a floor, not
a ceiling. He briefed lawmakers on the revised figure on Tuesday.

The 110,000 goal covers a 12-month period that starts next month. In the 12
months ending Sept. 30, the U.S. goal was 85,000, and in the three years before
that, the target was 70,000 per year.

The White House has tried to emphasize that the refugee program is safe and
doesn't pose a major threat to national security. That concern was heightened
last year after terrorist attacks in European cities, including some connected
to people who had spent time in Syria.

Officials said that potential refugees would continue to be subject a rigorous
screening process that typically lasts more than a year and involves both
in-person interviews and examination of biographical and biometric information.

The announcement came two weeks after the U.S. announced it had met President
Barack Obama's goal of admitting 10,000 Syrian refugees despite early skepticism
that it would reach its goal. Millions of Syrians have been displaced by a civil
war that has killed roughly half a million people.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              259 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                          September 15, 2016 Thursday

U.S. goal: Take in 110,000 refugees;
30 percent rise for coming year reflects concern over crisis.;
REFUGEE CRISIS

BYLINE: ByJosh Lederman

SECTION: ; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 494 words


WASHINGTON - The United States will strive to take in 110,000 refugees from
around the world in the coming year, the White House said Wednesday, in what
would be a nearly 30 percent increase from the 85,000 allowed in over the
previous year.

The increase reflects continuing concern about the refugee crisis stemming from
Syria's civil war and conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. Yet it's still far
short of what advocacy groups say is needed to address an unprecedented crisis
that saw some 1 million people pour into Europe alone last year.

Of the 110,000, 40,000 will come from the Middle East and South Asia, where much
of the refugee flow originates. An additional 35,000 will come from Africa,
12,000 from East Asia, 4,000 from Europe and 5,000 from Latin America and the
Caribbean, White House spokesman Josh Earnest said.

The administration did not release a country-specific breakdown. The total
includes 14,000 unallocated slots that can be given to refugees from any region
once Congress is notified.

Secretary of State John Kerry previously suggested that the U.S. target would
climb to 100,000 in the coming year, but that the figure was a floor, not a
ceiling. He briefed lawmakers on the revised figure Tuesday.

The 110,000 goal covers a 12-month period that starts next month. In the 12
months ending Sept. 30, the U.S. goal was 85,000, and in the three years before
that, the target was 70,000 per year.

The White House has tried to emphasize that the refugee program is safe and
doesn't pose a major threat to national security. That concern was heightened
last year after terrorist attacks in European cities, including some connected
to people who had spent time in Syria.

Officials said potential refugees would continue to be subject a rigorous
screening process that typically lasts more than a year and involves both
in-person interviews and examination of biographical and biometric information.

The announcement came two weeks after the U.S. announced it had met President
Barack Obama's goal of admitting 10,000 Syrian refugees despite early skepticism
that it would reach its goal. Millions of Syrians have been displaced by a civil
war that has killed roughly half a million people.

Republicangovernorshave pushed back vehemently, seeking to bar the Syrians from
their states. The administrationmaintainsthatstates can'tlegallybarrefugeeswho
otherwise meet the criteria.

The U.S. has tried to encourage other countries to increase their contribution
to alleviating the refugee crisis. The official said increasing the U.S. target
this year reflected that strategy and Obama's belief that all nations need to do
more to help the neediest.

As part of that effort, Obama plans to host a summit on refugee issues with
world leaders next week during the U.N. General Assembly gathering in New York.
The White House said the summit would spotlight the need to increase money for
aid agencies, resettle more refugees and provide education and job assistance.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              260 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                          September 15, 2016 Thursday

U.S. goal: Take in 110,000 refugees;
30 percent rise for coming year reflects concern over crisis.;
REFUGEE CRISIS

BYLINE: ByJosh Lederman

SECTION: ; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 494 words


WASHINGTON - The United States will strive to take in 110,000 refugees from
around the world in the coming year, the White House said Wednesday, in what
would be a nearly 30 percent increase from the 85,000 allowed in over the
previous year.

The increase reflects continuing concern about the refugee crisis stemming from
Syria's civil war and conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. Yet it's still far
short of what advocacy groups say is needed to address an unprecedented crisis
that saw some 1 million people pour into Europe alone last year.

Of the 110,000, 40,000 will come from the Middle East and South Asia, where much
of the refugee flow originates. An additional 35,000 will come from Africa,
12,000 from East Asia, 4,000 from Europe and 5,000 from Latin America and the
Caribbean, White House spokesman Josh Earnest said.

The administration did not release a country-specific breakdown. The total
includes 14,000 unallocated slots that can be given to refugees from any region
once Congress is notified.

Secretary of State John Kerry previously suggested that the U.S. target would
climb to 100,000 in the coming year, but that the figure was a floor, not a
ceiling. He briefed lawmakers on the revised figure Tuesday.

The 110,000 goal covers a 12-month period that starts next month. In the 12
months ending Sept. 30, the U.S. goal was 85,000, and in the three years before
that, the target was 70,000 per year.

The White House has tried to emphasize that the refugee program is safe and
doesn't pose a major threat to national security. That concern was heightened
last year after terrorist attacks in European cities, including some connected
to people who had spent time in Syria.

Officials said potential refugees would continue to be subject a rigorous
screening process that typically lasts more than a year and involves both
in-person interviews and examination of biographical and biometric information.

The announcement came two weeks after the U.S. announced it had met President
Barack Obama's goal of admitting 10,000 Syrian refugees despite early skepticism
that it would reach its goal. Millions of Syrians have been displaced by a civil
war that has killed roughly half a million people.

Republicangovernorshave pushed back vehemently, seeking to bar the Syrians from
their states. The administrationmaintainsthatstates can'tlegallybarrefugeeswho
otherwise meet the criteria.

The U.S. has tried to encourage other countries to increase their contribution
to alleviating the refugee crisis. The official said increasing the U.S. target
this year reflected that strategy and Obama's belief that all nations need to do
more to help the neediest.

As part of that effort, Obama plans to host a summit on refugee issues with
world leaders next week during the U.N. General Assembly gathering in New York.
The White House said the summit would spotlight the need to increase money for
aid agencies, resettle more refugees and provide education and job assistance.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              261 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                          September 15, 2016 Thursday

U.S. goal: Take in 110,000 refugees next year

BYLINE: JOSH LEDERMAN The Associated Press

SECTION: B; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 323 words


WASHINGTON - The United States will strive to take in 110,000 refugees from
around the world in the coming year, the White House said Wednesday, in what
would be a nearly 30 percent increase from the 85,000 allowed in over the
previous year.

The increase reflects continuing concern about the refugee crisis stemming from
Syria's civil war and conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. Yet it's still far
short of what advocacy groups say is needed to address an unprecedented crisis
that saw some 1 million people pour into Europe alone last year.

Of the 110,000, 40,000 will come from the Middle East and South Asia, where the
origins of the crisis have been most pronounced. An additional 35,000 will come
from Africa, 12,000 from East Asia, 4,000 from Europe and 5,000 from Latin
America and the Caribbean, White House spokesman Josh Earnest said.

The administration did not release a country-specific breakdown. The total
includes 14,000 unallocated slots that can be given to refugees from any region
once Congress is notified.

Secretary of State John Kerry had previously suggested that the U.S. target
would climb to 100,000 in the coming year, but that the figure was a floor, not
a ceiling. He briefed lawmakers on the revised figure on Tuesday.

The 110,000 goal covers a 12-month period that starts next month. In the 12
months ending Sept. 30, the U.S. goal was 85,000, and in the three years before
that, the target was 70,000 per year.

The White House has tried to emphasize that the refugee program is safe and
doesn't pose a major threat to national security. That concern was heightened
last year after terrorist attacks in European cities, including some connected
to people who had spent time in Syria.

Officials said that potential refugees would continue to be subject to a
rigorous screening process that typically lasts more than a year and involves
both in-person interviews and examination of biographical and biometric
information.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              262 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          International New York Times

                          September 7, 2016 Wednesday

Nearly 50 Million Children Are Refugees, Unicef Report Finds

BYLINE: RICK GLADSTONE

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 452 words

ABSTRACT

According to the agency, children make up a third of the world's population but
about half of all refugees.

FULL TEXT

Correction Appended

Nearly 50 million children worldwide have migrated across borders or been
forcibly displaced by conflicts, the United Nations said on Tuesday in a new
report meant to emphasize the trauma children face from war, climate change and
poverty.

Distributed by Unicef, the United Nations Children's agency, the report said
more than half of these children, roughly 28 million, have fled violence and
insecurity.

Children also represent a disproportionate and growing segment of those who have
sought refuge outside their country of birth, the report said. While children
make up about a third of the global population, they account for about half of
all refugees.

An executive summary of the report, titled "Uprooted," described it as the first
comprehensive presentation of global data about the affected children: "where
they are born, where they move and some of the dangers they face along the way."

The report said that last year, two countries - Syria and Afghanistan -
accounted for nearly half of all child refugees as classified by the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. It also showed that the number of child
refugees has more than doubled in the past 10 years.

Unicef issued the report a few weeks before the annual United Nations General
Assembly, when world leaders will converge to meet against a backdrop of the
protracted conflicts in Syria, Yemen, Afghanistan, South Sudan and other parts
of the Middle East and Africa that together are helping to drive the global
refugee and migrant crises.

"Children do not bear any responsibility for the bombs and bullets, the gang
violence, persecution, the shriveled crops and low family wages driving them
from their homes," the report said.

Turkey is host to the largest total number of recent refugees, with more than
three million people fleeing the civil war in Syria. It quite likely has the
largest number of child refugees, too, the report said. But Lebanon, relative to
its population, is host to more refugees than any other country: Roughly one in
five people in Lebanon is a refugee.

The report also showed that among migrant children, three out of every five live
in Asia or Africa. In the Americas, home to roughly 6.3 million child migrants,
four out of five live in just three countries: the United States, Mexico and
Canada.

Correction: September 6, 2016, Tuesday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier
version of this article gave the wrong day for the release of the Unicef report
on refugees and displaced people. It was made public on Tuesday, not Monday.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              263 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 7, 2016 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nearly 50 Million Children Are Refugees, Report Finds

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 389 words


Nearly 50 million children worldwide have migrated across borders or been
forcibly displaced by conflicts, the United Nations said on Tuesday in a new
report meant to emphasize the trauma children face from war, climate change and
poverty.

Distributed by Unicef, the United Nations Children's agency, the report said
more than half of these children, roughly 28 million, have fled violence and
insecurity.

Children also represent a disproportionate and growing segment of those who have
sought refuge outside their country of birth, the report said. While children
make up about a third of the global population, they account for about half of
all refugees.

An executive summary of the report, titled ''Uprooted,'' described it as the
first comprehensive presentation of global data about the affected children:
''where they are born, where they move and some of the dangers they face along
the way.''

The report said that last year, two countries -- Syria and Afghanistan --
accounted for nearly half of all child refugees as classified by the Office of
the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. It also showed that the
number of child refugees has more than doubled in the past 10 years.

Unicef issued the report a few weeks before the annual United Nations General
Assembly, when world leaders will converge to meet against a backdrop of the
protracted conflicts in Syria, Yemen, Afghanistan, South Sudan and other parts
of the Middle East and Africa that together are helping to drive the global
refugee and migrant crises.

''Children do not bear any responsibility for the bombs and bullets, the gang
violence, persecution, the shriveled crops and low family wages driving them
from their homes,'' the report said.

Turkey is host to the largest total number of recent refugees, with more than
three million people fleeing the civil war in Syria. It quite likely has the
largest number of child refugees, too, the report said. But Lebanon, relative to
its population, is host to more refugees than any other country: Roughly one in
five people in Lebanon is a refugee.

The report also showed that among migrant children, three out of every five live
in Asia or Africa. In the Americas, home to roughly 6.3 million child migrants,
four out of five live in just three countries: the United States, Mexico and
Canada.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/07/world/americas/unicef-children-refugees.
html

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                              264 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                    Press TV

                            September 4, 2016 Sunday

Little more room left for refugees in Europe: EU official

LENGTH: 291  words


European Council President Donald Tusk (photo by AFP)

European Council President Donald Tusk says the European Union (EU) is almost
unable to take in more refugees.

"The practical capability of Europe to host new waves of refugees... is close to
limits," he told reporters on Sunday.

Tusk, who was speaking in Hangzhou, China, on the sidelines of the G20 Summit,
urged other countries at the summit to take some responsibility in tackling the
problem.

"The G20 community should scale up its share of responsibility," Tusk said.

The G20 includes the EU, with 28 countries, in addition to 19 individual
countries across the globe, namely, Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China,
France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Mexico, Russia,
Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Turkey, the United Kingdom and the United States.

Tusk told the G20 members that a collective effort is required to resolve the
refugee problem.

"Only global efforts will be able to bear fruits," he said.

Tusk has repeatedly in the past warned refugees and asylum-seekers not to head
to the EU.

Nonetheless, refugees fleeing war and persecution in conflict zones in the
Middle East and North Africa have been flowing into the European continent over
the past several years.

Many blame the West for the militancy and violence that has displaced millions
of people in the Middle East, mainly Syrians, causing the huge refugee influx
into Europe.

In March, the EU and Turkey signed a controversial deal aimed at stemming the
flow of the asylum seekers to Europe. It has not officially been reported how
and if the deal has managed to alleviate the European refugee crisis.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/198/701/59/147299856317.jpg

European Council President Donald Tusk (photo by AFP)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: 701


                            Copyright 2016 Press TV
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              265 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 3, 2016 Saturday

Somali regional authority reverses decision barring return of refugees

LENGTH: 384 words


Text of report by Somali news website Hiiraan on 3 September

Mogadishu (Hiiraan Online) -- The Somali regional administration of Jubbaland
said it would allow refugees being repatriated from Kenya's Dadaab camp to
arrive in the region, reversing its recent decision which prevented returnees
from moving beyond a post on the country's border with Kenya.

As many as 1,200 Somalis who recently left Dadaab are being held at the Dhobley
transition centre, a spokesman for the United Nations refugee agency said on
Thursday.

However, the Kenyan-backed Jubbaland state, which controls large parts of Jubba
regions which is close to the border, announced it would now allow refugees to
enter the region amid concerns by local officials that despite resettlement
promises by aid agencies their resettlement plan for the returning refugees was
not going forward as planned.

"After talks with the UNHCR [United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees], we
have agreed to allow refugees to either enter Jubbaland or proceed to their
respective destinations," General Mohamed Warsame, Jubbaland's interior
minister, told Voice of America's Somali service Friday.

"During the talks, we have also agreed not to repatriate the remaining refugees
until their resettlement plan is being finalized," he said.

Early this year Kenyan government said it decided to close the camp, citing
reasons of "pressing national security" and that the sprawling camp has become a
"safe haven" for terrorist groups like Al-Shabaab.

The decision by the Kenyan government sent shockwaves across the refugee
communities in the camp who have no desire to return to their respective
countries that they fled due to unrest and prosecutions they may again face back
home. The development, decried by rights groups and aid agencies, threatens to
uproot hundreds of thousands of refugees in the semi-arid refugee camp in
northeastern Kenya which hosts over 300,000 people.

Dadaab, the largest refugee camp in the world, found itself in Kenyan security's
crosshairs after deadly attacks by the Somalia-based Al-Qaeda-linked Al-Shabaab
group in recent years.

Established in 1991, the camp largely receives people fleeing conflict in
Somalia, as well ethnic people escaping prosecution in some East African
countries.

Source: Hiiraan in Somali 0001 gmt 3 Sep 16

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2016 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              266 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               New York Observer

                             August 29, 2016 Monday

Nicholas Kristof's Obscene Comparison: Injured Syrian Girl Is Not Anne Frank

BYLINE: Abraham H. Miller

LENGTH: 678 words


Anne Frank is not an injured Syrian girl, and to make the comparison, as
Nicholas Kristof does, is to stand on the verge of the obscene. Anne Frank had
no place to go. The Roosevelt administration callously and cynically closed
America's doors to Jews by an aggressive enforcement of immigration quotas even
in instances where they did not apply.

Even the American Virgin Islands, immune from America's immigration quotas, was
shut, as were academic exceptions to quotas. When it came to European Jews,
Roosevelt seemed almost as paranoid as he was about Japanese Americans, whose
internment in camps was protested by none other than FBI Director J. Edgar
Hoover in a six-page, secret memo to the attorney general.

The doors of numerous countries are open to the Syrian and other Muslim
refugees. The debate is over how many should be taken-not whether they should be
taken at all.

The Syrians have advocates in the highest reaches of Western governments and the
European Union. The Jews had almost no advocates.

The Syrians have other Arab and Muslim states that share a common cultural and
religious heritage. The Jews had no such thing.

The British Foreign Office and the American State Department cynically made a
coordinated decision that it was better for Jews to die in Hitler's gas chambers
than to be rescued.

There were not even refugee camps for Europe's Jews until Henry Morgenthau
shamed Roosevelt into creating them in North Africa, in 1944, near the end of
the war.

Switzerland took in a small number of Jewish refugees, as did Sweden, and Japan
before 1941. Of the nations of the world, only China, a country without a
history of anti-Semitism, took in a significant number.

Had Anne Frank's family miraculously made it to Morocco, her father would have
been put into a Vichy slave labor camp to build the Pan-Saharan Railway, in
conditions rivaling the infamous Japanese Death Railway for which 32 Japanese
military official were convicted of war crimes and executed.

Western European Jews like the Franks were highly acculturated and even
assimilated. They were well educated, fluent in numerous languages, economically
successful, and devotees of Western culture. They were largely secular.

They did not believe their religion was triumphalist, that they had a religious
obligation to holy war, and that the culture that absorbed them should yield its
way of doing things to theirs.

It is nearly impossible to imagine Jewish refugees demanding kosher food as
Somali refugees in Minneapolis demand free Halal food. It is nearly impossible
that Jewish refugees would have gone to court to demand a different school than
the one to which their children were assigned as is happening with Muslim
refugees in Pennsylvania.

Jewish refugees did not cause an explosion of rape and sexual violence as Muslim
refugees have in Sweden and Germany.

Jewish refugees were victims of lies: that they were Nazi spies and Bolshevik
agitators. But that does not mean that Islamic refugees were not educated in a
culture that hates Jews and LBGT people, views women as inferior to men, even
before the law.

The juxtaposition of what Jews were in the 1930s and what Muslim refugees are in
2016 is an exercise in the absurd.

Our first obligation is not to any refugees but to preserve our democratic way
of life.

That does not mean we have no obligation to help those who need help. There are
numerous Arab and Muslim countries that share a common culture, language, and
religious orientation with the refugees. The resources of the world would be
better used resettling them where the attitudes in which they were acculturated
will be similar to that of the larger society.

Some of these countries are among the wealthiest in the world. It would be
better to make them acknowledge their obligation to their "kit and kin" than to
make absurd comparisons with all the Anne Franks of Europe who perished under
the Nazis.

Abraham H. Miller is an emeritus professor of political science, University of
Cincinnati, and a distinguished fellow with the Haym Salomon Center. Follow him
@salomoncenter


LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Observer, L.P.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              267 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           August 24, 2016 Wednesday

Activities of Secretary-General in California, United States, 10-12 August

LENGTH: 467  words

DATELINE: New York



 New York: United Nations has issued th New York: United Nations has issued the
following news release



 United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, accompanied by Madam Ban
Soon-taek, arrived in Los Angeles from Argentina on Wednesday morning, 10
August.





 He participated in a conversation with television producers and writers to
encourage the increasing collaboration between the creative community and the
United Nations, which has been extremely valuable, allowing the United Nations
to reach millions of viewers worldwide with messages about the role of the
Organization and global issues, such as the Sustainable Development Goals.



 In addition, the Secretary-General participated in a dialogue with Congressman
Ed Royce of California, Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee.  He
thanked the Congressman for his leadership on a wide range of global issues.
During a bilateral meeting, they had an opportunity to discuss the situations in
South Sudan, Myanmar and the Korean Peninsula.  (See Press Release SG/SM/17976.)




 He also met with a group of recently arrived refugees from Asia, Africa, Latin
America and the Middle East at an event co-sponsored by the International Rescue
Committee (IRC), The Annenberg Foundation and the UN Foundation.  In his
discussions with the refugee families, the Secretary-General said the United
Nations would be there for them as it had been there for him when he was a
displaced young boy in war-torn Korea.  And in a message to communities that had
seen a recent influx of refugees, the Secretary-General said that these newly
arrived families needed to be welcomed, embraced and integrated into their new
communities.  He expressed gratitude to the authorities in California as it is
the top state in receiving resettled refugees in the United States.  (See Press
Release SG/SM/17975.)



 On Wednesday evening, he attended a creative community outreach event and
dinner hosted by the film director and producer, Brett Ratner.  He talked to
attendees about how he strongly believed in the ability of the industry to be a
power for social good.



 The Secretary-General left Los Angeles on Thursday morning for San Francisco.
In San Francisco, he visited the woman he calls his "American mother", Libba
Patterson.  Mrs. Patterson, who is now 99, and her family hosted a young Ban
Ki-moon in 1962 when he was in the United States as part of a Red
Cross-sponsored programme.



 He later met with Governor Edmund G. "Jerry" Brown, Jr., of California to thank
him for his and his state's support for the fight against climate change.



 The Secretary-General departed California for Calgary, Canada, early on Friday
morning, 12 August.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com





LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              268 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                            August 13, 2016 Saturday

UN chief urges all countries to help refugees and migrants-build bridges, not
walls

SECTION: Vol. 39 No. 224

LENGTH: 437  words


With millions of refugees facing hardships, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has
urged the United States and other countries to keep reaching out to people in
need-wherever they are-because we will all be stronger by building bridges
instead of walls.

Have hope I have faith in you, the secretary-general said in a special message
to young refugees gathered last night for an event at resettlement centre in Los
Angeles, California.

The event was hosted by the International Rescue Committee, the Annenberg
Foundation and the UN Foundation, wit refugees, including from Guatemala and
Syria, and other countries from Latin America, the Middle East and Africa
present.

He assured the gathering that he is working hard for other refugee families
around the world, and noted that on Sept. 19, at UN Headquarters in New York,
the General Assembly will convene a Summit on Refugees and Migrants where, among
other proposed commitments, governments will agree that refugee children should
go to school as soon as possible after arrival in the country that gives them
asylum.

I encourage countries like the United States to continue to demonstrate
leadership by providing safe haven to more refugees including Syrian refugees,
the Secretary-General said, adding Lets keep reaching out a helping hand to
people in their time of need. Lets never give in to the forces of fear and
division. Lets welcome people into their new communities as neighbours and
friends. Lets build bridges, not walls. We will all be stronger for it.

He went on to recall that he himself had been displaced as a young boy. "I did
not flee my country, but my family and I were driven out of our village by war
the Korean war. I was only 6 years old. Everything was destroyed. The United
Nations came to our rescue. They gave us food. They gave us shelter. They gave
us school supplies, he said.

Now I am here as the head of the United Nations to give school supplies to you.
If I could do it, you can do it, Ban said.

Earlier yesterday, the Secretary-General also participated in a public
discussion with United States Congressman Ed Royce, the chair of the House
Foreign Affairs Committee.

He thanked the Congressman for his leadership on a wide-range of global issues.
During a bilateral meeting, they had an opportunity to discuss the situations is
South Sudan, Myanmar and the Korean peninsula.

Ban also participated in two events with the creative community yesterday, in
which he talked to attendees, including, among others, film producer and
director Brett Ratner, about how he strongly believed in the ability of the
industry to be a power for social good.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              269 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                      IBNS

                       August 12, 2016 Friday 6:30 AM EST

'Let's build bridges, not walls,' says UN chief, urging all countries to help
refugees and migrants

BYLINE: India Blooms News Service

LENGTH: 467  words


New York, Aug 12 (Just Earth News): Encouraging young refugees gathered for an
event at resettlement centre in Los Angeles to "study hard [and] be a full part
of your new communities," United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon urged the
United States and other countries to keep reaching out to people in need,
wherever they are, because "we will all be stronger" by building bridges instead
of walls.

Have hope I have faith in you, Ban said in a special message to young people
gathered last night for a back-to-school event hosted by the International
Rescue Committee, the Annenberg Foundation and the UN Foundation, after his
visit to resettlement centre where he met refugees, including from Guatemala and
Syria, and other countries from Latin America, the Middle East and Africa. He
assured the gathering that he is working hard for other refugee families around
the world, and noted that on 19 September, at UN Headquarters in New York, the
General Assembly will convene a Summit on Refugees and Migrants where, among
other proposed commitments, governments will agree that refugee children should
go to school as soon as possible after arrival in the country that gives them
asylum. I encourage countries like the United States to continue to demonstrate
leadership by providing safe haven to more refugees including Syrian refugees,
said the Secretary-General, adding: Lets keep reaching out a helping hand to
people in their time of need. Lets never give in to the forces of fear and
division. Lets welcome people into their new communities as neighbours and
friends. Lets build bridges, not walls. We will all be stronger for it. He went
on to recall that he himself had been displaced as a young boy. I did not flee
my country, but my family and I were driven out of our village by war the Korean
war. I was only 6 years old. Everything was destroyed. The United Nations came
to our rescue. They gave us food. They gave us shelter. They gave us school
supplies, he said. Now I am here as the head of the United Nations to give
school supplies to you. If I could do it, you can do it, said Ban. Earlier
yesterday, the Secretary-General also participated in a public discussion with
United States Congressman Ed Royce, the chair of the House Foreign Affairs
Committee. He thanked the Congressman for his leadership on a wide-range of
global issues. During a bilateral meeting, they had an opportunity to discuss
the situations is South Sudan, Myanmar and the Korean peninsula. Ban also
participated in two events with the creative community yesterday, in which he
talked to attendees, including, among others, film producer and director Brett
Ratner, about how he strongly believed in the ability of the industry to be a
power for social good. UN Photo/Mark Garten Source: www.justearthnews.com

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2016 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              270 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 11, 2016 Thursday

â[#x20ac][#xfffd]Letâ[#x20ac][TM]s build bridges, not walls,â[#x20ac][TM] says
UN chief, urging all countries to help refugees and migrants

LENGTH: 499  words

DATELINE: New York



 New York: United Nations has issued th New York: United Nations has issued the
following news release



  Encouraging young refugees gathered for an event at resettlement centre in Los
Angeles to "study hard [and] be a full part of your new communities," United
Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon urged the United States and other
countries to keep reaching out to people in need, wherever they are, because "we
will all be stronger" by building bridges instead of walls.





 "Have hope [&hellip;] I have faith in you," Mr. Ban said in a special message
to young people gathered last night for a back-to-school event hosted by the
International Rescue Committee, the Annenberg Foundation and the UN Foundation,
after his visit to resettlement centre where he met refugees, including from
Guatemala and Syria, and other countries from Latin America, the Middle East and
Africa.



 He assured the gathering that he is working hard for other refugee families
around the world, and noted that on 19 September, at UN Headquarters in New
York, the General Assembly will convene a Summit on Refugees and Migrants where,
among other proposed commitments, governments will agree that refugee children
should go to school as soon as possible after arrival in the country that gives
them asylum.



 "I encourage countries like the United States to continue to demonstrate
leadership by providing safe haven to more refugees - including Syrian refugees,
" said the Secretary-General, adding: "Let's keep reaching out a helping hand to
people in their time of need. Let's never give in to the forces of fear and
division. Let's welcome people into their new communities as neighbours and
friends. Let's build bridges, not walls. We will all be stronger for it."



 He went on to recall that he himself had been displaced as a young boy. "I did
not flee my country, but my family and I were driven out of our village by war -
the Korean war. I was only 6 years old. Everything was destroyed. The United
Nations came to our rescue. They gave us food. They gave us shelter. They gave
us school supplies," he said.



 "Now I am here as the head of the United Nations to give school supplies to
you. If I could do it, you can do it," said Mr. Ban.



 Earlier yesterday, the Secretary-General also participated in a public
discussion with United States Congressman Ed Royce, the chair of the House
Foreign Affairs Committee. He thanked the Congressman for his leadership on a
wide-range of global issues. During a bilateral meeting, they had an opportunity
to discuss the situations is South Sudan, Myanmar and the Korean peninsula.



 Mr. Ban also participated in two events with the creative community yesterday,
in which he talked to attendees, including, among others, film producer and
director Brett Ratner, about how he strongly believed in the ability of the
industry to be a power for social good.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com





LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              271 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 11, 2016 Thursday

â[#x20ac][#xfffd]Letâ[#x20ac][TM]s build bridges, not walls,â[#x20ac][TM] says
UN chief, urging all countries to help refugees and migrants

LENGTH: 499  words

DATELINE: New York



 New York: United Nations has issued th New York: United Nations has issued the
following news release



  Encouraging young refugees gathered for an event at resettlement centre in Los
Angeles to "study hard [and] be a full part of your new communities," United
Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon urged the United States and other
countries to keep reaching out to people in need, wherever they are, because "we
will all be stronger" by building bridges instead of walls.





 "Have hope [&hellip;] I have faith in you," Mr. Ban said in a special message
to young people gathered last night for a back-to-school event hosted by the
International Rescue Committee, the Annenberg Foundation and the UN Foundation,
after his visit to resettlement centre where he met refugees, including from
Guatemala and Syria, and other countries from Latin America, the Middle East and
Africa.



 He assured the gathering that he is working hard for other refugee families
around the world, and noted that on 19 September, at UN Headquarters in New
York, the General Assembly will convene a Summit on Refugees and Migrants where,
among other proposed commitments, governments will agree that refugee children
should go to school as soon as possible after arrival in the country that gives
them asylum.



 "I encourage countries like the United States to continue to demonstrate
leadership by providing safe haven to more refugees - including Syrian refugees,
" said the Secretary-General, adding: "Let's keep reaching out a helping hand to
people in their time of need. Let's never give in to the forces of fear and
division. Let's welcome people into their new communities as neighbours and
friends. Let's build bridges, not walls. We will all be stronger for it."



 He went on to recall that he himself had been displaced as a young boy. "I did
not flee my country, but my family and I were driven out of our village by war -
the Korean war. I was only 6 years old. Everything was destroyed. The United
Nations came to our rescue. They gave us food. They gave us shelter. They gave
us school supplies," he said.



 "Now I am here as the head of the United Nations to give school supplies to
you. If I could do it, you can do it," said Mr. Ban.



 Earlier yesterday, the Secretary-General also participated in a public
discussion with United States Congressman Ed Royce, the chair of the House
Foreign Affairs Committee. He thanked the Congressman for his leadership on a
wide-range of global issues. During a bilateral meeting, they had an opportunity
to discuss the situations is South Sudan, Myanmar and the Korean peninsula.



 Mr. Ban also participated in two events with the creative community yesterday,
in which he talked to attendees, including, among others, film producer and
director Brett Ratner, about how he strongly believed in the ability of the
industry to be a power for social good.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com





LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              272 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 11, 2016 Thursday

â[#x20ac][#xfffd]Letâ[#x20ac][TM]s build bridges, not walls,â[#x20ac][TM] says
UN chief, urging all countries to help refugees and migrants

LENGTH: 499  words

DATELINE: New York



 New York: United Nations has issued th New York: United Nations has issued the
following news release



  Encouraging young refugees gathered for an event at resettlement centre in Los
Angeles to "study hard [and] be a full part of your new communities," United
Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon urged the United States and other
countries to keep reaching out to people in need, wherever they are, because "we
will all be stronger" by building bridges instead of walls.





 "Have hope [&hellip;] I have faith in you," Mr. Ban said in a special message
to young people gathered last night for a back-to-school event hosted by the
International Rescue Committee, the Annenberg Foundation and the UN Foundation,
after his visit to resettlement centre where he met refugees, including from
Guatemala and Syria, and other countries from Latin America, the Middle East and
Africa.



 He assured the gathering that he is working hard for other refugee families
around the world, and noted that on 19 September, at UN Headquarters in New
York, the General Assembly will convene a Summit on Refugees and Migrants where,
among other proposed commitments, governments will agree that refugee children
should go to school as soon as possible after arrival in the country that gives
them asylum.



 "I encourage countries like the United States to continue to demonstrate
leadership by providing safe haven to more refugees - including Syrian refugees,
" said the Secretary-General, adding: "Let's keep reaching out a helping hand to
people in their time of need. Let's never give in to the forces of fear and
division. Let's welcome people into their new communities as neighbours and
friends. Let's build bridges, not walls. We will all be stronger for it."



 He went on to recall that he himself had been displaced as a young boy. "I did
not flee my country, but my family and I were driven out of our village by war -
the Korean war. I was only 6 years old. Everything was destroyed. The United
Nations came to our rescue. They gave us food. They gave us shelter. They gave
us school supplies," he said.



 "Now I am here as the head of the United Nations to give school supplies to
you. If I could do it, you can do it," said Mr. Ban.



 Earlier yesterday, the Secretary-General also participated in a public
discussion with United States Congressman Ed Royce, the chair of the House
Foreign Affairs Committee. He thanked the Congressman for his leadership on a
wide-range of global issues. During a bilateral meeting, they had an opportunity
to discuss the situations is South Sudan, Myanmar and the Korean peninsula.



 Mr. Ban also participated in two events with the creative community yesterday,
in which he talked to attendees, including, among others, film producer and
director Brett Ratner, about how he strongly believed in the ability of the
industry to be a power for social good.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com





LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              273 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             August 8, 2016 Monday

Failure to adequately address mass refugee migrations is the real crisis'
immigration experts say

LENGTH: 658  words

DATELINE: New York



 Chicago: American Bar Association has issued the following news release



 As Europe struggles with the crisis related to the surge of refugees from the
Middle East and Africa, and the United States considers the extent to which it
will take some in, the U.S. is confronted with a refugee crisis on its own
southern border where more than 120,000 Central American children and parents
have fled the violence in their home countries.


 There is a lack of leadership in the efforts to handle the mass refugee
migrations to Europe and the U.S.,, said immigration experts during the American
Bar Association 2016 Annual Meeting panel discussion: "Refugee Crisis:
Challenges in Europe and at the U.S. Border," sponsored by the ABA Section of
Civil Rights and Social Justice.



 "The crisis I believe we are facing on this issue right now is not the crisis
about the refugees," said Elisa Massimino, president and CEO of Human Rights
First. "It is the crisis about the way governments are failing to live up to
their obligations and do what they committed to do on the intervention and
status of refugees and protect people who can no longer count on their own
governments to protect them that is the real crisis."



 The panelists, who compared the European and U.S. approaches on mass migration
of refugees, agreed that neither was adequate for the unique circumstances faced
by the refugees and their vulnerabilities under the law.



 "The word refugee gets thrown around a lot, and it is really a legal term, in
our law and under international law," said Massimino. "Not everyone fleeing a
difficult situation or looking for a better life has the same call under
international law as a refugee does. A refugee is a person who has a
well-founded fear of persecution on one of five grounds: race, religion,
nationality, political opinion or membership to a particular group."



 Refugees have special privileges under international law compared to some other
immigrants, added Thomas Alexander Aleinikoff, visiting professor of law at
Columbia Law School and former United Nations high commissioner for refugees in
Geneva. However, countries fail to fulfill their obligations under those
international agreements, he said.



 Aleinikoff noted that Syria's neighboring countries--Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey
and Iraq--have provided refuge to those seeking protection from violence, and
have not subjected them to the scrutiny that they have faced in Europe and the
U.S.



 In the U.S., the government has adopted policies of deterrence, and refugees
are detained in prison-like facilities, said Holly Cooper, director of the
Immigration Law Clinic at the University of California at Davis School of Law.
In Europe, according to Cooper, refugees experience a "more humanitarian"
approach, living in open campsites on the Greek coast while awaiting admission.



 In both cases, the lack of leadership and policies from local authorities to
deal with the refugee crisis prevent refugees from securing adequate legal
counsel and representation.



 This is a global crisis that "can't be solved by any one country," Massimino
said. "But there is one country with the resources, standing and leadership to
put forth such a plan, and that country is ours."



 A fundamental right to seek protection at the border is not an illegal act,
said Katharina Obser, a migrant rights and justice program officer with the
Women's Refugee Commission.



 "One thing that has been said a lot, in the U.S. context in particular, is this
implication that people who are arriving at the southern border and seeking
asylum are crossing illegally," said Obser. "When in fact it is someone's right
to seek protection at the border, and the country whose protection they are
seeking to respond with a fair, humane and just process. This applies for Europe
and all countries in the world."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              274 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                     The Telegraph-Journal (New Brunswick)

                             July 16, 2016 Saturday

Refugees from South Sudan could surpass 1 million

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 252 words


JUBA, South Sudan * The number of South Sudanese refugees in East Africa could
pass 1 million this year, the United Nations refugee agency said Friday, calling
on armed groups to allow safe passage for people fleeing the latest fighting.

There is concern about fresh outflows of refugees following military clashes in
recent days in the capital, Juba, said Ann Encontre, a UN refugee co-ordinator
in South Sudan. She appealed for $701 million in relief aid.

"They are supposed to be the generation of tomorrow, the generation that will
lead and rebuild their country, but right now, they are suffering enormously,"
she said.

Even before the resurgence of violence in the past week, hundreds of thousands
of refugees had been sheltering in Uganda, Sudan, Ethiopia and elsewhere since
civil war began in December 2013.

But there are new reports that South Sudan authorities are blocking some
citizens, including those with U.S. or Canadian dual nationality, from leaving
the country.

Opposing army factions have clashed in Juba over the past week, with forces
backing President Salva Kiir pushing many opposition forces out of their bases
in the city and bombing the home of former rebel leader Riek Machar, who is now
the country's first vice-president.

The fighting has threatened a peace deal to end the civil war between supporters
of Kiir and Machar that left tens of thousands dead. The deal called for a
transitional government that included members of both sides. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2016
Telegraph-Journal (New Brunswick)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Telegraph Journal
                              All Rights Reserved


                              275 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                     The Times & Transcript (New Brunswick)

                             July 16, 2016 Saturday

Refugees of South Sudan crisis could surpass 1 million this year

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 261 words


JUBA, South Sudan * The number of South Sudanese refugees in East Africa could
pass 1 million this year, the United Nations refugee agency said Friday, calling
on armed groups to allow safe passage for people fleeing the latest fighting.

There is concern about fresh outflows of refugees following military clashes in
recent days in the capital, Juba, said Ann Encontre, a UN refugee co-ordinator
in South Sudan. She appealed for $701 million in relief aid.

"They are supposed to be the generation of tomorrow, the generation that will
lead and rebuild their country, but right now, they are suffering enormously,"
she said. "They have been deprived of a normal life."

Even before the resurgence of violence in the past week, hundreds of thousands
of refugees had been sheltering in Uganda, Sudan, Ethiopia and elsewhere since
civil war began in December 2013.

But there are new reports that South Sudan authorities are blocking some
citizens, including those with U.S. or Canadian dual nationality, from leaving
the country.

Opposing army factions have clashed in Juba over the past week, with forces
backing President Salva Kiir pushing many opposition forces out of their bases
in the city and bombing the home of former rebel leader Riek Machar, who is now
the country's first vice-president.

The fighting has threatened a peace deal reached in August to end the civil war
between supporters of Kiir and Machar that left tens of thousands dead. It
called for a transitional government that included members of both sides.
!@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Times &; Transcript (Moncton)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 The Times & Transcript.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              276 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           Cameroon Tribune (Yaoundé)

                                 July 14, 2016

Lake Chad Basin - U.S. Offers Additional FCFA 16 Billion

BYLINE: Roland Mbonteh

LENGTH: 343 words


Visiting US Assistant Secretary of State for Population, Refugees and Migration
made the announcement in a press briefing on July 13, 2016 in Yaounde.

United States (US) Assistant Secretary of State for Population, Refugees and
Migration, Anne Richard, has announced an additional US contribution to the
humanitarian crises in the Lake Chad Basin to the tune of 27 million US dollars
(about FCFA 16 billion) to support victims of the Boko Haram violence across the
region.

The visiting Assistant Secretary of State made the revelation on July 13 in
Yaounde during a press briefing attended by the UN Assistant Secretary-General
and Regional Humanitarian Coordinator for the Sahel, Toby Lanzer and the US
Ambassador to Cameroon, Michael Stephen Hoza.

Anne Richard who visited the Minawao refugee camp in the Far North Region said
her trip to Cameroon and Chad was to highlight the devastating impact of the
Boko Haram violence and strengthen international cooperation to ease the plight
of the refugees and internally displaced persons in Chad, Cameroon, Niger and
Nigeria. More than 9 million people are affected by the Boko Haram barbarism in
the Lake Chad Basin region with food and health needs escalating.

The humanitarian crises is said to be enormous with already 155,000 refugees and
2.6 internationally displaced persons. Despite the worsening situation, the US
official regretted that the crises is one of the least funded and her visit to
the area is thus to whip up international support. The FCFA 16 billion
additional US support will bolster efforts of the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) to
provide Nigerian refugees with basic necessities such as access clean water,
sanitation facilities, household items and shelter.

Both Anne Richard and Toby Lanzer praised Cameroon's generosity and efforts
towards assisting the refugees. Toby pointed out that the Nigerian refugees in
the Far North Region can only return home when it is safe. He announced a 221
million dollars 90-day humanitarian emergency response targeting the population
of the Lake Chad Basin.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              277 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The Financial Express

                              July 3, 2016 Sunday

Refugee follows dream to Mt Everest summit with a little help from spiritual
India

BYLINE: Faizal Khan

LENGTH: 500  words


Mostafa Salameh was born in a shanty refugee camp in the Jordanian capital of
Amman. His parents were refugees who had met in the same camp. One of nine
children of his parents, he began his flight towards a better life, first moving
to Kuwait as a child and then to London as a teenager. He lived for 12 years in
Britain as an illegal immigrant, picking up strands of English from Sun tabloid
and Sesame Street TV series. He washed plates in a restaurant, waited tables,
worked as a barman and even a cook. He lived on drugs in a British town with
over 300 mosques until a book and a country changed his life. The book was
Khalil Gibran's The Prophet. The country was India. While The Prophet gave him
"life lessons", India calmed him down, making him feel more at peace with
himself, he says.

With Dreams of a Refugee, Salameh has returned the favour by writing about his
own life's experiences. He hopes that the book will motivate more refugees like
him to live their dreams. After arriving in New Delhi in the summer of 2002, he
travelled to Kashmir, planning to stay there for two weeks. Instead, he lived
there for six months, visiting mosques and monasteries. In Kashmir, he learned
for the first time that the Quran is full of exciting stories, not rules of
prohibitions or painful punishments. He came across Sufism not as a 'sect', but
as an 'aspect' of Islam.

"India opened my eyes to religion and spirituality and taught me about Buddhism
and Hinduism," says Salameh.

"India made me more at peace with myself and opened me up to the world of
possibilities, ignited my spiritual and mystical life." Then he had a dream in
which he was standing on top of the world making a call to prayer. The rest was
a tenacious preparation to climb the Mount Everest. "Are you actually a
climber?" asked the Jordanian Royal Palace when he sought financial support. He
wasn't. So Salameh decided to undergo two major training climbs in Nepal
followed by climbings of Mont Blanc in France, the highest in Europe; Mount
McKinley in Alaska, the highest in North America; Mount Vinson in Antarctica;
Kilimanjaro in Africa; Mount Elbrus in Russia; and Mount Aconcagua in Argentina,
the highest in South America.

His first attempt to climb the Everest was in 2007, but he had to abandon it
after a bout of flu and a fall. Another attempt, too, failed. Finally, he
summitted the highest peak in the world on his third attempt in 2008 in an
expedition for a "peaceful Islam". Dreams of a Refugee is not about a
mountaineering expedition. It goes beyond a peak to scale the heights of hope
and determination. The book is about a man's inner fights with his outer demons.

As Salameh shows, the biggest conquest happens in the mind. However, one wishes
the editors of this book had been a little more careful. The book says former
Egyptian president Mohamed Morsi is dead, even though he is in jail after being
overthrown in 2013. Clearly, there are many more summits that remain to be
climbed.

Faizal Khan is a freelancer

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2016 The Financial Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              278 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              June 27, 2016 Monday

Washington: #RefugeesWelcome: Giving Up One Dream for a Greater One of Peace

LENGTH: 303  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: U.S. Department of Health & Human Services has issued the following
news release:



 I'm happy being here; that's why I work hard. I want to serve this country. I
want to be somebody in this country.When I was 16, there was war in the Congo.
My dad was killed in the house in front of us. My sister was raped in front of
us. They severely beat my mom; they broke her leg. She's lame now and must use a
cane and wheelchair.





 We fled to Uganda, and lived in the refugee camp for seven years. I was able to
live my dream of playing professional soccer there, but life still wasn't easy
in the camp and we feared for our lives because the Congo border was near.



 We went through five interviews and five years to come to America. They check a
lot of stuff. It's not like you're just going to wake up and go.



 I now work at a bakery and as a translator at the International Institute of
Erie, helping other refugees from Africa. I speak several languages.



 At the Institute, we learn what to do here in America. They teach you
everything. We learn about the law.I'm responsible for my mother and my
brother's six children. I don't want them to be bad boys or bad girls outside.
Nobody drinks in my family, nobody smokes in my family. We're still together as
a family; I am happy and proud about that.



 When you're living in Africa and they tell you, "You are going to America," you
start feeling like you're dreaming. I'm happy being here; that's why I work
hard. I want to serve this country. I want to be somebody in this country.



 I'm honored to share my story in recognition of World Refugee Day. I encourage
you to join the conversation online and share your story using #RefugeesWelcome.




 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              279 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Times (Kigali)

                                 June 23, 2016

MPs Task Govt to Scale Up Efforts to Protect Refugees

BYLINE: Eugene Kwibuka

LENGTH: 633 words


The government should move swiftly to strengthen efforts to protect thousands of
refugees in Rwanda and also work with the international community to address
problems behind their displacement.

The call was made on Tuesday by the Lower Chamber of Parliament following a
report made by the House's Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs, Cooperation
and Security.

It contains findings of an outreach exercise in different refugee camps and
transition centres across the country which was conducted in March by members of
the committee.

Among other recommendations, the legislators asked the government to ensure that
those who are young among the refugees are taught how to solve their problems,
provide monetary packages to the refugees in time, protect the environment
around refugee camps and organise an international meeting to examine causes of
refugees in Africa's Great Lakes region and how to solve them.

"There is need for multinational consultations about the causes of refugees in
the Great Lakes region and how to eradicate them," said MP Athanasie
Nyiragwaneza, vice-chairperson of the foreign affairs committee.

Rwanda is home to more than 162,000 refugees, mainly from DR Congo and Burundi-
is the biggest number of refugees the country has ever hosted.

Speaking at an event in Kigali on Monday to mark the World Refugee Day,
Seraphine Mukantabana, the minister for disaster management and refugee affairs,
said the Government, together with its partners, has done whatever is possible
to ensure that refugees in the country are taken care of and access basic needs.

The chairperson of the parliamentary Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs, Zeno
Mutimura, agrees that the Rwandan government takes very good care of refugees
but also warned against supporting efforts to relocate some of them away too far
from their home countries.

He called on the government to continue working with other countries and
international organisations to ensure that insecurity problems that prevent
refugees from going back home are addressed while also ensuring that the country
is ready to receive and protect refugees at the same time.

"Taking refugees to America is not the answer," he said, adding that "As a
responsible government, we need to continue being ready to receive refugees".

In February, the government announced plans to relocate Burundian refugees to
other countries after it was accused of involvement in destabilising crisis-hit
neighbouring Burundi, a charge that Rwandan leaders have vehemently denied.

While announcing the planned relocation of Burundian refugees, the Foreign
Affairs minister and Government Spokesperson, Louise Mushikiwabo, said that
while Rwanda readily shoulders its obligations to protect and care for refugees,
experience in the Great Lakes region is that the long-term presence of refugees
so close to their country of origin carries considerable risks for all involved.

"The callous indifference to the well-known root causes of instability in
Burundi, and the refugee exodus is troubling. It also exposes refugees to
increased threats from forces at home and compromises lasting political
solutions," she said in February, adding that "for Rwanda, the growing risks to
our national security from the Burundian impasse and misunderstandings in our
foreign relations are unacceptable".

But some MPs argue that resettling the refugees to other distant countries might
mean complete dislocation for them and wouldn't be the best solution for their
problems.

"The solution is not taking them to the USA, Canada or Argentina. The real
solution is taking them back home where they belong," said MP John
Ruku-Rwabyoma, who lived in Toronto, Canada, for many years before returning
home to Rwanda.

The Chamber of Deputies will hand over the recommendations to the government.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              280 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily Nation (Kenya)

                            June 22, 2016 Wednesday

US-bound migrants take the long way

LENGTH: 861  words


From a dusty Kenyan refugee camp, Mohamud Warfa Hirsi has reached the sticky
heat of the Caribbean. His journey is not over.


TURBO, COLOMBIA
Mohamud Warfa Hirsi is a long way from home. From a dusty Kenyan refugee camp,
he has reached the sticky heat of the Caribbean, and his journey is not over.
The 27-year-old Somali has travelled nearly 13,000 kilometres (8,000 miles) from
East Africa. His hoped-for destination now lies hundreds of miles to the north,
in the United States.


"My journey was very hard," he told AFP.
He has made it to an obscure milestone on the transcontinental refugee trail:
Colombia's port of Turbo.
Warfa Hirsi is one of thousands of migrants treading this trail through South
and Central America.
They risk arrest, drowning, disease and abuse by people-traffickers. But still
they come in their thousands.
From Turbo, traffickers take them by boat to a remote bay up the coast from
where they can cross the border into Panama.
DROWNED
Arriving by boat and plane from countries like Cuba and Haiti, and from as far
away as Africa and Asia, migrants gather in Turbo, sleeping in hotels, abandoned
buildings or under the stars.
They cram without life vests onto boats, sometimes with 40 people in a craft
made for 20, braving four-meter (13-foot) waves.
"Vessels have capsized. These people have been drowning in the sea," said
Brigadier General Adolfo Enrique Martinez, head of a Colombian navy anti-drugs
task force in Turbo.
Those who make it to the border will trudge through the Darien jungle into
Panama, risking hunger, dehydration and disease, and on through Central America.

One Cuban migrant, 33-year-old computer engineer Aliex Artiles, tried it that
way in 2010.
He wants to reach the United States to apply for residency under a special US
agreement with Cuba.
Last time he got through the Panamanian jungle and as far as Mexico, where the
authorities sent him back home.
This year, Artiles set off again, by plane from Havana to Trinidad, then by
ferry to volatile Venezuela, from where he crossed the border into Colombia.
Now he is in Turbo.
"At first, we were sleeping out on the square. There were more than 60 of us.
Then someone let us stay in this warehouse," Artiles said.
"There are more than 500 of us now. There are three pregnant women and various
children. And more are arriving every day."
DISEASED
Artiles is one of hundreds of Cubans in Turbo.
"We just want them to let us travel onwards safely. We all qualify for the Cuban
settlement law" in the United States," he said.
Outside the disused warehouse near the port, they shave and brush their teeth
under the baking sun.  Women stand in line to use washing machines. Children cry
and run around inside over the mattresses where the families sleep.
A state ombudsman for the surrounding district, William Gonzalez, warns that the
overcrowding in the warehouse poses a health risk. Two people there have been
hospitalized with malaria.
"It is a shocking situation," he said.
'IMPOSSIBLE'
The city's hotels welcome the migrants who can pay.
"We are practically always full with them. And they pay in dollars," said hotel
receptionist Ingrida Cordoba.
She showed a photograph on her mobile phone. A recent Congolese guest sent it to
her after he made it to Miami.
Among the current guests at another, more basic hotel, is Jean-Baptiste Geraldo,
27. He fled from the impoverished Caribbean island of Haiti.
"The situation there was very difficult," he said. "I want to go to a country
where there are opportunities."
He reached Colombia via Brazil. Like many others, he has taken a roundabout
route hoping to reach the United States.
The journey has got harder since Panama, Costa Rica and Nicaragua tightened
their borders in recent months.
A government delegate in Turbo, Emelides Munoz, said authorities in the district
have detained more than 4,000 illegal migrants so far this year -- more than the
total for the whole of 2015.
The head of the Colombian migration agency, Christian Kruger, said it was
"impossible" for them to agree to help the migrants pass through.
"If we allowed them to leave for another country we would be formally accepting
an illegal situation," he told AFP.
"We would be contributing to the criminal trafficking of migrants."
With its port and plantations, Turbo, population 163,000, is a center of banana
production and trafficking of drugs and people.
The United Nations estimates the gangs make billions of dollars trafficking
migrants through the region.
DEPORTED
Having fled civil war in his native Somalia, Warfa Hirsi grew up in the vast
Dadaab refugee camp in Kenya.
In March, he said goodbye to his family there and left for Ethiopia. From there,
Hirsi flew to Brazil, where he worked briefly before heading for Colombia.
"They deported me three times," said Hirsi, who finally made it to Turbo.
He is tired. But he still smiles and his eyes twinkle.
In the United States, he said, "I will be a doctor, God willing."

http://imgs.syndigate.info/338/1144/63/146657159533.jpg

Colombia's coast guard patrol searching for migrants in the Turbo municipality,
Antioquia department, Colombia, on June 15, 2016. AFP PHOTO | RAUL ARBOLEDA

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1144


                       Copyright 2016 Nation Media Group
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              281 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             June 21, 2016 Tuesday
                                Ontario Edition

UNITED NATIONS;
Poor countries bearing brunt of record refugee population

BYLINE: GEOFFREY YORK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 724 words


The world's refugee population has soared to an all-time record of 65.3 million,
and the burden of sheltering them is overwhelmingly shouldered by poorer
nations, despite the political furor in wealthier countries, new data show.

The number of people left homeless by war and conflict jumped by nearly six
million last year, crossing the 60-million threshold for the first time,
according to the latest report from UNHCR, the United Nations refugee agency.

One of every 113 people in the world is now a refugee, asylum seeker or
internally displaced person, the report said. But much of the world is
increasingly responding with xenophobia, divisive rhetoric, closed borders and
political paralysis, UN refugee chief Filippo Grandi said in a statement to mark
World Refugee Day.

Mr. Grandi did not give examples, but the political temperature this year has
been dominated by populists such as Donald Trump and European nationalists who
want to tighten borders and restrict the flow of migrants - including refugees -
from poorer countries, especially Muslim nations. Thursday's referendum on
Brexit has helped fuel tensions over migration in Britain.

Yet while the attention of politicians and media is fixated on refugees reaching
Europe and North America, 86 per cent of refugees are still hosted by poor and
developing countries near war zones or conflict sites, the UNHCR said on Monday.
More than half of refugees are children, it said.

The biggest hosts of refugees are Turkey, Pakistan, Lebanon, Iran and Ethiopia.
Five of the 10 biggest hosts were sub-Saharan African countries. Measured by
dollar of GDP on a per-capita basis, the heaviest burden is shouldered by the
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia, Pakistan, Uganda and Kenya. In one
country, Lebanon, an extraordinary 183 of every 1,000 people are refugees.

The UNHCR report cited Canada as one of the most generous countries on refugee
settlement.

Canada accepted 20,000 refugees for resettlement last year - the second-largest
number in the world, behind only the United States, which accepted 66,500.

Canada also naturalized 25,900 refugees as citizens - more than any other
country in the world.

More than 80 per cent of the world's refugee naturalizations were in Canada last
year, the report said.

In total, there were a record two million new asylum seekers in industrialized
countries last year, with Germany receiving the largest single number of asylum
applications (441,900).

Globally, more than half of all refugees are from just three countries: Syria,
Afghanistan and Somalia. The biggest sources of internal displacement are
Colombia, Syria and Iraq.

A decade ago, the UNHCR recorded an average of six people displaced every
minute.

"Today, that number is 24 a minute - almost double the typical frequency at
which adults breathe," the UN agency said.

Jacquelyn Wright, vice-president of international programs at relief agency CARE
Canada, said the global refugee crisis documented in the UNHCR report should
push Canada to take a stronger role on the world stage.

"The numbers highlighted in this report are staggering, but we should remember
we're talking about individuals, each with a personal story of how their lives
have been upended by violence or disaster," she said in a statement.

While forced displacement has been rising since the mid-1990s, the trend has
accelerated over the past five years, the UNHCR said. It cited three main
reasons: the longer persistence of refugee numbers in conflict zones such as
Somalia and Afghanistan; a declining rate of offering asylum or other solutions;
and the emergence of dramatic new refugee crises in countries such as Syria,
South Sudan, Ukraine, Burundi, Yemen, Central African Republic and many others.

"Each year, UNHCR seeks to find a glimmer of hope in the global statistics," Mr.
Grandi said.

"But this year, the hopeful signs are hard to find ... Instead of burden
sharing, we see borders closing. Instead of political will, there is political
paralysis."

He said 2016 should be a watershed year for helping refugees and ending wars.
"World leaders can no longer watch passively as so many lives are needlessly
lost.

We must find humane and dignified means to ensure refugees don't risk their
lives and those of their families by resorting to ruthless traffickers or by
boarding flimsy boats in a bid to reach safety."

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2016 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              282 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                      IBNS

                        June 20, 2016 Monday 6:30 AM EST

With 1 human in every 113 affected, forced displacement hits record high: UNHCR

BYLINE: India Blooms News Service

LENGTH: 1651  words


New York, June 20(Just Earth News): Conflict and persecution caused global
forced displacement to escalate sharply in 2015, reaching the highest level ever
recorded and representing immense human suffering, according to a report
released today by UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency.

UNHCRs annual Global Trends report, which tracks forced displacement worldwide
based on data from governments, partners including the Internal Displacement
Monitoring Centre, and the organizations own reporting, said 65.3 million people
were displaced as of the end of 2015, compared to 59.5 million just 12 months
earlier. This is the first time that the threshold of 60 million has been
crossed. The total of 65.3 million comprises 3.2 million people in
industrialized countries who as of end 2015 were awaiting decisions on asylum
(the largest total UNHCR has recorded), 21.3 million refugees worldwide (1.8
million more than in 2014 and the highest refugee total since the early 1990s),
and 40.8 million people who had been forced to flee their homes but were within
the confines of their own countries (an increase of 2.6 million from 2014 and
the highest number on record). Measured against Earths 7.349 billion population,
these numbers mean that 1 in every 113 people globally is now either an
asylum-seeker, internally displaced or a refugee a level of risk for which UNHCR
knows no precedent. In all, there are more forcibly displaced people today than
the populations of the United Kingdom, France or Italy.* Forced displacement has
been on the rise since at least the mid-1990s in most regions, but over the past
five years the rate of climb has increased.

The reasons are threefold: Situations that cause large refugee outflows are
lasting longer (for example, conflicts in Somalia or Afghanistan are now into
their third and fourth decades, respectively), dramatic new or reignited
situations are occurring frequently (todays largest being Syria, but also in the
space of the past five years South Sudan, Yemen, Burundi, Ukraine, Central
African Republic, etc.), and the rate at which solutions are being found for
refugees and internally displaced people has been on a falling trend since the
end of the Cold War. As recently as 10 years ago, at the end of 2005, UNHCR
recorded an average of six people displaced every minute. Today that number is
24 per minute almost double the typical frequency at which adults breathe. More
people are being displaced by war and persecution and thats worrying in itself,
but the factors that endanger refugees are multiplying too, said UN High
Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi. At sea, a frightening number of
refugees and migrants are dying each year; on land, people fleeing war are
finding their way blocked by closed borders. Politics is gravitating against
asylum in some countries. The willingness of nations to work together not just
for refugees but for the collective human interest is whats being tested today,
and its this spirit of unity that badly needs to prevail. Among countries
covered by the Global Trends report several stand out: Syria at 4.9 million,
Afghanistan at 2.7 million and Somalia at 1.1 million together accounted for
more than half the refugees under UNHCRs mandate worldwide. Colombia at 6.9
million, Syria at 6.6 million, and Iraq at 4.4 million meanwhile had the largest
numbers of internally displaced people. Yemen was the biggest producer of new
internal displacement in 2015 2.5 million people, or 9 per cent of its
population. Europes struggles to manage the more than one million refugees and
migrants who arrived via the Mediterranean dominated the attentions of many in
2015, nonetheless the report shows that the vast majority of the worlds refugees
were elsewhere. In all, 86 per cent of refugees under UNHCRs mandate in 2015
were in low and middle income countries close to situations of conflict. This
figure rises to over 90 per cent of the worlds refugee total if the Palestinian
refugees under the responsibility of UNHCRs sister-organization UNRWA are
included. Worldwide, Turkey was the biggest host country with 2.5 million
refugees. Lebanon, meanwhile hosted more refugees compared to its population
than any other country (183 refugees per 1,000 inhabitants). Relative to the
size of its economy the Democratic Republic of the Congo hosted most (471
refugees for every dollar of per capita GDP, measured at price purchasing
parity). Among industrialized countries, 2015 was also a record year for new
asylum claims, with two million requests (contributing to the 3.2 million cases
still pending as of the end of the year). Germany received more asylum requests
than any other country (441,900), largely reflecting its readiness to receive
people who were fleeing to Europe via the Mediterranean. The United States had
the second highest number of asylum claims (172,700), many of these individuals
fleeing gang-related violence in Central America. Substantial asylum
applications were also seen in Sweden (156,000) and Russia (152,500). Children
constituted 51 per cent of the worlds refugees in 2015 according to the data
UNHCR was able to gather (complete demographic data was not available to the
report authors). Worryingly, many were separated from their parents or
travelling alone. In all there were 98,400 asylum requests from children who
were unaccompanied or separated from their families. This is the highest total
UNHCR has seen and a tragic reflection of how global forced displacement is
disproportionately affecting young lives. While global displacement totals were
higher than ever, the number of people able to return to their home or find
another solution (local integration in a country of first refuge or resettlement
elsewhere) was low. 201,400 refugees were able to return to their countries of
origin in 2015 (mainly Afghanistan, Sudan and Somalia). This was higher than the
total in 2014 (126,800), but still substantially down compared with the peaks of
the early 1990s. Some 107,100 refugees were admitted for resettlement in 30
countries in 2015 representing just 0.66 per cent of the refugees under UNHCRs
mandate (by comparison, 26 countries admitted 105,200 refugees for resettlement
in 2014, representing 0.73 per cent of the refugee population under UNHCR care).
At least 32,000 refugees became naturalized over the course of the year, the
majority in Canada and with smaller numbers in France, Belgium, Austria and
elsewhere. Displacement in 2015, by region (from highest to lowest) 1. Middle
East and North Africa Syrias war remained the worlds leading cause of
displacement and associated suffering. By the end of 2015 it had driven at least
4.9 million people into exile as refugees and displaced 6.6 million internally
amounting to around half Syrias pre-war population. Iraqs conflict had by years
end displaced 4.4 million people internally and created more than a quarter of a
million refugees. Yemens civil war, which began in 2015, had by the end of
December displaced 2.5 million people more new displacement than any other
conflict globally. Including the 5.2 million Palestinian refugees under the
mandate of UNRWA, the almost half a million Libyans forced to flee their homes
and remaining in the country, plus a number of smaller situations, the Middle
East and North Africa region accounted for more displacement than any other. 2.
Sub-Saharan Africa Sub-Saharan Africa had the largest displacement totals in
2015 after the Middle East and North Africa. Continuing bitter conflict in South
Sudan in 2015, as well as in Central African Republic and Somalia, plus new or
continuing mass displacement in or from countries including Nigeria, Burundi,
Sudan, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Mozambique and elsewhere together
produced 18.4 million refugees and internally displaced people as of years end.
Sub-Saharan Africa meanwhile hosted some 4.4 million refugees in all more than
any other region. Five of the worlds top-10 hosting nations were African
countries, led by Ethiopia, and followed by Kenya, Uganda, Democratic Republic
of the Congo and Chad. 3. Asia and Pacific The Asia and Pacific region accounted
for almost a sixth of the worlds refugees and internally displaced people in
2015, making it the third largest region for displacement overall. One in six of
the refugees under UNHCRs mandate were from Afghanistan (2.7 million people)
where almost 1.2 million people were internally displaced. Myanmar was the
regions second largest producer of both refugees and internally displaced people
(451,800 and 451,000 respectively). Pakistan (1.5 million) and Islamic Republic
of Iran (979,000) remain among the worlds leading refugee hosting countries. 4.
Americas Rising numbers of people fleeing gang and other violence in Central
America contributed to a 17 per cent rise in displacement across the wider
region. Refugees and asylum seekers from El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras
together reached 109,800, most coming to Mexico and the United States and
representing a more than five-fold increase over three years. Colombia, a
longstanding situation, remained the worlds biggest country for internal
displacement (6.9 million). 5. Europe The situation in Ukraine, Europes
proximity to Syria and Iraq, plus the arrival of more than a million refugees
and migrants via the Mediterranean mostly from the worlds top ten refugee
-producing countries, together dominated the regions displacement picture in
2015. European countries together produced some 593,000 refugees most from
Ukraine; and hosted 4.4 million 2.5 million of these in Turkey. Figures provided
by the Government of Ukraine list 1.6 million Ukrainians as being displaced
there. The Global Trends report lists 441,900 asylum claims in Germany, where
the refugee population increased by 46 per cent from its 2014 level to 316,000.
Source: www.justearthnews.com Photo: UNICEF/UNI196199/Georgiev

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2016 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


                              283 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                             June 18, 2016 Saturday
                                  Main Edition

GROUP FINDS HOMES FOR KIDS FLEEING WAR Spokane to become resettlement city

BYLINE: Rachel Alexander rachela@spokesman.com, (509) 459-5406

SECTION: A; Pg. 006

LENGTH: 611 words


Across the world, millions of children have fled war.

"They lose their parents or they get separated and they have to go through this
refugee process alone,"  explained Lisa Johnson, the refugee foster parent
recruiter at Inland Northwest Lutheran Community Services.

The United Nations estimates that, of the approximately 21 million refugees
worldwide, about half are children. Spokane will soon join a group of about 20
U.S. cities  that are helping to resettle them.

Lutheran Community Services has been resettling young refugees in Seattle for
decades, and the Spokane office just got approval to do the same. The process
begins by recruiting foster parents, who are screened and licensed using the
curriculum for domestic foster parents, with some additional training. Parents
then work with Lutheran Community Services to find a matching child who's in a
refugee camp or detention center and waiting for placement.

A handful of children will be arriving in Spokane this summer, and Lutheran
Community Services hopes to resettle as many as 30 by next fall.

"To do all the groundwork, and now being able to see all of the kids coming, in
is exciting," Johnson said.

The children must be at least 10 years old, Johnson said, to ensure they're
making an informed decision about coming to the  United States. Those who decide
to go abroad go through intensive immigration and security screening, which can
take several years, she said.

Once here, families will receive a stipend and support from a social worker, who
helps make sure the children are adjusting.

Leo Ramos just joined the agency and hopes his experience as a child who grew up
in the United States  and Mexico will help him relate to the arriving teens.

Ramos said he came from Mexico when he was 12 to the United States,  where he
said he received a better education. His family settled in Wenatchee, and he
moved to Spokane after attending Eastern Washington University.

"The opportunities are limitless," he said.

Lutheran Community Services hopes about half of the refugees it accepts will be
children from Central America who are fleeing gang violence. A group of them
will live together in a group home that's  been built.

Other children will be placed  with families until they're 18, though they will
continue to receive services and support until age 23.

Two Spokane families have agreed to be foster parents and will be welcoming
children this summer. A single mother will be taking in two sisters from the
East African country of Eritrea, where, according to Amnesty International, an
authoritarian government suppresses free speech and people routinely flee to
avoid conscripted military service or forced labor.

Another Spokane couple will foster a boy who belongs to the Rohingya, an ethnic
group that's been denied citizenship and persecuted in their native country of
Burma, causing many people to flee to neighboring Thailand.

Ramos said he's found another Rohingya family in Spokane he hopes to connect
with the foster parents so they can learn to cook traditional dishes and learn
some of the Rohingya language.

Johnson hopes to recruit more parents in the region.

"It's heartbreaking to look at the list and you see child after child after
child ... who's been sitting in a refugee camp" with nowhere to go, she said.
"Let's get them here."

SIDEBAR:

REFUGEE RESETTLEMENT

Lutheran Community Services is seeking more foster parents for refugee children.
For more information, contact Lisa Johnson at (509) 343-5018 or
ljohnson@lcsnw.org Lutheran Community Services also hosts information sessions
on the second Tuesday of each month from 5:30-7:30 p.m. at its office, 210 W.
Sprague Ave.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                              284 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              May 30, 2016 Monday

Treat refugees as real people, not policies

LENGTH: 808  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington, D.C.: American Federation of Teachers has issued the following news
release:



 The panel started at the heart of the matter, with images of the refugees
themselves: washing ashore, hidden under car bumpers, fleeing in impossibly
crowded boats and trains, suffering the indignities of encampments and forced
exodus from their homes. Refugees from the Holocaust were juxtaposed with
refugees from recent conflicts in Syria, Iraq, Sudan, Central America. Most
heartbreaking were the labels accompanying the photographs: Terrorists.
Illegals. Rapists. Aliens.





 The four-minute film (link is external) set the tone for the serious May 18
policy discussion (link is external) about the international refugee crisis,
co-sponsored by the Albert Shanker Institute and the Jewish Labor Committee.
 When particular ethnic, religious and racial groups are singled out to be
ostracized and punished for their identity, those of us who are not of that
identity have a moral obligation to be in the forefront of their defense," said
Herb Magidson, a former AFT vice president and former president of the Jewish
Labor Committee, especially in the climate of intolerance that has intensified
over the course of current electoral rhetoric.



 Shelly Pitterman, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees' regional
representative for the United States and the Caribbean, quantified the point,
noting that there were 20 million refugees at this time last year, and 40
million internally displaced people. "Reactive, protectionist policies are
either failing to reduce the number of refugees, undermining human rights, or
both."



 It is far better--"essential," he said--that public policy be guided by human
rights. Best practices regarding remote education, energy use, logistics and
accountability should be widespread. Funding must be set in place; resettlement
responsibilities must be shared, with no single country providing the entire
solution.



 Although the magnitude of the refugee population is new, the concept reaches
back to the 1800s, when HIAS, originally the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, was
founded in response to the genocide of Russian Jews. In the fear surrounding
refugees from the Middle East and North Africa, Mark Hetfield, HIAS president
and CEO, hears echoes of a time when Jews were seen as a "security threat" when,
in fact, they were victims in need of assistance. Hetfield was particularly
critical of the United States' cap on Syrian refugee resettlement at 10,000
people: "It's not even a symbolic gesture," he said, especially when Canada has
accepted some 26,000 refugees over just a few months.



 Focusing on Central American refugees, Jennifer Podkul, director of policy for
Kids in Need of Defense, shared some numbers: 68,000 children were apprehended
at the Mexican border in 2014, and she expects as many or more this year. They
are fleeing "unbearable" lives in Central America, where they are frequently
surrounded by violent gangs that tell young people to "join or die" and force
young girls to run drugs or worse. Violence keeps children from attending school
and suppresses business; subsequent economic hardship creates desperation and
violence; a vicious circle endures. Meanwhile, "immigrants" who cross the border
are locked into detention centers or, if they are lucky enough to connect with
family, live in fear of late-night raids by immigration officers ready to deport
them or their parents.



 "We need to treat this as a human refugee crisis," not an immigration issue,
said Podkul. When the child soldiers of Sudan escaped, they were treated as
victims of war and called "lost boys," she said. "We've been treating [Central
American] children as illegal aliens. I think the United States can do better
than that."



 AFT President Randi Weingarten, who moderated the panel, asked what AFT members
can do to help. "The teachers are already doing so much," said Hetfield. "Making
sure their classrooms are safe places for refugee kids is the most important
thing they can do."



 Panelists agreed that "humanizing" the issue is key to gaining support for
further refugee aid. Starting with education, said Weingarten, "you have to get
into people's souls and hearts."



 "Make it about children in our community, not about immigration," said Podkul.



 "These so-called hoards, rapists, murderers," said Hetfield, "they're really
just people who want to have a normal life."



 Panelists also agreed that the heated anti-immigrant rhetoric prevalent in the
presidential campaign of the presumptive Republican nominee is beyond troubling,
and they will work to steer the narrative away from fear and demagoguery, toward
empathy and hope.







 In case of any query regarding this article or other content please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              285 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             May 28, 2016 Saturday

Treat refugees as real people, not policies

LENGTH: 808  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington, D.C.: American Federation of Teachers has issued the following news
release:



 The panel started at the heart of the matter, with images of the refugees
themselves: washing ashore, hidden under car bumpers, fleeing in impossibly
crowded boats and trains, suffering the indignities of encampments and forced
exodus from their homes. Refugees from the Holocaust were juxtaposed with
refugees from recent conflicts in Syria, Iraq, Sudan, Central America. Most
heartbreaking were the labels accompanying the photographs: Terrorists.
Illegals. Rapists. Aliens.





 The four-minute film (link is external) set the tone for the serious May 18
policy discussion (link is external) about the international refugee crisis,
co-sponsored by the Albert Shanker Institute and the Jewish Labor Committee.
 When particular ethnic, religious and racial groups are singled out to be
ostracized and punished for their identity, those of us who are not of that
identity have a moral obligation to be in the forefront of their defense," said
Herb Magidson, a former AFT vice president and former president of the Jewish
Labor Committee, especially in the climate of intolerance that has intensified
over the course of current electoral rhetoric.



 Shelly Pitterman, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees' regional
representative for the United States and the Caribbean, quantified the point,
noting that there were 20 million refugees at this time last year, and 40
million internally displaced people. "Reactive, protectionist policies are
either failing to reduce the number of refugees, undermining human rights, or
both."



 It is far better--"essential," he said--that public policy be guided by human
rights. Best practices regarding remote education, energy use, logistics and
accountability should be widespread. Funding must be set in place; resettlement
responsibilities must be shared, with no single country providing the entire
solution.



 Although the magnitude of the refugee population is new, the concept reaches
back to the 1800s, when HIAS, originally the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, was
founded in response to the genocide of Russian Jews. In the fear surrounding
refugees from the Middle East and North Africa, Mark Hetfield, HIAS president
and CEO, hears echoes of a time when Jews were seen as a "security threat" when,
in fact, they were victims in need of assistance. Hetfield was particularly
critical of the United States' cap on Syrian refugee resettlement at 10,000
people: "It's not even a symbolic gesture," he said, especially when Canada has
accepted some 26,000 refugees over just a few months.



 Focusing on Central American refugees, Jennifer Podkul, director of policy for
Kids in Need of Defense, shared some numbers: 68,000 children were apprehended
at the Mexican border in 2014, and she expects as many or more this year. They
are fleeing "unbearable" lives in Central America, where they are frequently
surrounded by violent gangs that tell young people to "join or die" and force
young girls to run drugs or worse. Violence keeps children from attending school
and suppresses business; subsequent economic hardship creates desperation and
violence; a vicious circle endures. Meanwhile, "immigrants" who cross the border
are locked into detention centers or, if they are lucky enough to connect with
family, live in fear of late-night raids by immigration officers ready to deport
them or their parents.



 "We need to treat this as a human refugee crisis," not an immigration issue,
said Podkul. When the child soldiers of Sudan escaped, they were treated as
victims of war and called "lost boys," she said. "We've been treating [Central
American] children as illegal aliens. I think the United States can do better
than that."



 AFT President Randi Weingarten, who moderated the panel, asked what AFT members
can do to help. "The teachers are already doing so much," said Hetfield. "Making
sure their classrooms are safe places for refugee kids is the most important
thing they can do."



 Panelists agreed that "humanizing" the issue is key to gaining support for
further refugee aid. Starting with education, said Weingarten, "you have to get
into people's souls and hearts."



 "Make it about children in our community, not about immigration," said Podkul.



 "These so-called hoards, rapists, murderers," said Hetfield, "they're really
just people who want to have a normal life."



 Panelists also agreed that the heated anti-immigrant rhetoric prevalent in the
presidential campaign of the presumptive Republican nominee is beyond troubling,
and they will work to steer the narrative away from fear and demagoguery, toward
empathy and hope.







 In case of any query regarding this article or other content please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              286 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                               The Saudi Gazette

                             May 26, 2016 Thursday

Syria's refugee crisis focus of interactive exhibition in Boston

LENGTH: 643  words


BOSTON - What's it like to flee Syria as a refugee?

Global relief and development organization Oxfam America and Microsoft
demonstrated the harrowing ordeal many migrants endure through a free exhibit
Wednesday evening at the tech giant's research and development center in
Cambridge, Massachusetts.

Participants in "The Refugee Road" were assigned the real-life story of a Syrian
refugee that the Boston-based Oxfam America has worked with.

As they moved through the exhibit, some randomly called on to share their
refugee's experience as photos taken by Oxfam staffers at border crossings and
refugee camps helped illustrate the plight.

Others were asked to act out parts of the journey, like carrying bags of clothes
and other personal possessions or being subjected to interrogations as if they
were at a border crossing.

"Experiential events like this bring emotions alive and stir a deep sense of
identification," said Nancy Delaney, Oxfam America's director of community
engagement. "Ultimately, we want people to come away with a primary
understanding: everyone on earth has the same basic needs.

"It is only our circumstances - where we live and the culture into which we are
born - that differ."

Syria's civil war has displaced an estimated 11 million people since erupting in
March 2011 as part of the Arab Spring revolutions that saw old regimes fall
across North Africa and the Middle East.

Oxfam, which was founded in Oxford, England in 1942 and now has more than a
dozen affiliates working in nearly 100 countries, says it has helped provide
more than 1.5 million displaced Syrians with food, water and shelter.

The life stories highlighted Wednesday represent some of the most common
experiences of Syrians, said Oxfam America spokeswoman Emily Bhatti.

They include those who have flooded Lebanon, Jordan and other neighboring
countries, those who have settled in North America, Europe and elsewhere, and
those who remain in Syria, either by choice or because financial or other
reasons prevent them from fleeing.

The event is meant, in part, to call on the US to redouble its efforts to
resettle Syrians.

Just over 1,700 refugees have been admitted into the US since last fall, when
President Barack Obama set the relatively modest goal of resettling 10,000
Syrians by October 2016.

"At this rate, we won't even meet half of that goal by then," said Ali Aljundi,
Oxfam America's project officer for Syria. "And even if the US were to reach its
goal, it would still be a drop in the bucket."

Germany, in contrast, has already taken in hundreds of thousands of Syrians;
Canada has admitted nearly 27,000 since November.

Top Congressional Democrats, including presidential candidate Sen. Bernie
Sanders, urged the administration last week to speed up the process, but
Republican House Speaker Paul Ryan and other GOP leaders have called for a
pause.

They sought tighter regulations following November's deadly attacks in Paris,
where at least one of the perpetrators allegedly gained entry to the country
posing as a Syrian refugee.

But Oxfam and other advocates say the US refugee resettlement program is already
one of the world's most stringent, with multiple levels of background checks and
investigations.

"Anti-refugee rhetoric and cynical efforts by politicians to create more hurdles
won't make the US any safer," says Aljundi, who came to Massachusetts from Syria
in 2012 to attend graduate school.

"Thousands of Syrian refugee families are waiting in limbo. Their lives hang in
the balance."

http://imgs.syndigate.info/511/1526/98/146425878042.jpg

In this Feb. 16, 2016 photo provided by Oxfam, a boat filled with refugees
reaches the shore of the small Greek island of Lesbos. The photo was among those
included in "The Refugee Road," an interactive exhibit presented by Oxfam
America and Microsoft on Wednesday at Microsoft's office in Cambridge, Mass. -
AP

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1526


                       Copyright 2016 The Saudi Gazette.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              287 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                             May 26, 2016 Thursday
                              Worcester TG Edition

Syrian refugee crisis focus of interactive exhibit

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; 16

LENGTH: 625 words


BOSTON -- What's it like to flee Syria as a refugee?

Global relief and development organization Oxfam America and Microsoft are
hoping to demonstrate the harrowing ordeal many migrants endure through a free
exhibit Wednesday evening at the tech giant's research and development center in
Cambridge.

Participants in "The Refugee Road" will be assigned the real-life story of a
Syrian refugee that the Boston-based Oxfam America has worked with.

As they move through the exhibit, some will be randomly called on to share their
refugee's experience as photos taken by Oxfam staffers at border crossings and
refugee camps help illustrate the plight.

Others will be asked to act out parts of the journey, like carrying bags of
clothes and other personal possessions or being subjected to interrogations as
if they were at a border crossing.

"Experiential events like this bring emotions alive and stir a deep sense of
identification," said Nancy Delaney, Oxfam America's director of community
engagement. "Ultimately, we want people to come away with a primary
understanding: everyone on earth has the same basic needs. It is only our
circumstances -- where we live and the culture into which we are born -- that
differ."

Syria's civil war has displaced an estimated 11 million people since erupting in
March 2011 as part of the Arab Spring revolutions that saw old regimes fall
across North Africa and the Middle East.

Oxfam, which was founded in Oxford, England in 1942 and now has more than a
dozen affiliates working in nearly 100 countries, says it has helped provide
more than 1.5 million displaced Syrians with food, water and shelter.

The life stories highlighted Wednesday represent some of the most common
experiences of Syrians, said Oxfam America spokeswoman Emily Bhatti.

They include those who have flooded Lebanon, Jordan and other neighboring
countries, those who have settled in North America, Europe and elsewhere, and
those who remain in Syria, either by choice or because financial or other
reasons prevent them from fleeing.

The event is meant, in part, to call on the U.S. to redouble its efforts to
resettle Syrians.

Just over 1,700 refugees have been admitted into the U.S. since last fall, when
President Barack Obama set the relatively modest goal of resettling 10,000
Syrians by October 2016.

"At this rate, we won't even meet half of that goal by then," said Ali Aljundi,
Oxfam America's project officer for Syria. "And even if the U.S. were to reach
its goal, it would still be a drop in the bucket."

Germany, in contrast, has already taken in hundreds of thousands of Syrians;
Canada has admitted nearly 27,000 since November.

Top Congressional Democrats, including presidential candidate Sen. Bernie
Sanders, urged the administration last week to speed up the process, but
Republican House Speaker Paul Ryan and other GOP leaders have called for a
pause.

They sought tighter regulations following November's deadly attacks in Paris,
where at least one of the perpetrators allegedly gained entry to the country
posing as a Syrian refugee.

But Oxfam and other advocates say the U.S. refugee resettlement program is
already one of the world's most stringent, with multiple levels of background
checks and investigations.

"Anti-refugee rhetoric and cynical efforts by politicians to create more hurdles
won't make the U.S. any safer," says Aljundi, who came to Massachusetts from
Syria in 2012 to attend graduate school. "Thousands of Syrian refugee families
are waiting in limbo. Their lives hang in the balance."

Men peer from a train window at the railway station in Tabanovce, Macedonia,
near the border of Serbia. The photo will be among those included in "The
Refugee Road," an interactive exhibit in Cambridge. Photo/ Pablo Tosco/Oxfam via
AP

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              288 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                             May 11, 2016 Wednesday

World Bank Group Urged to Help Solve Refugee Crisis, Other Challenges

LENGTH: 892 words

DATELINE: New York






    WASHINGTON: Government ministers from around the world confronted the
refugee crisis, a slowing economy, and other global challenges at the 2016 World
Bank Group-IMF Spring Meetings.

    "Forced Displacement and Development" was the only item on the agenda at the
Development Committee meeting on Saturday. The committee, which represents the
189 shareholder countries of the Bank Group and the IMF, urged its members to
take action to support vulnerable people who have been forced to flee their
homes, and encouraged the institutions to partner with humanitarian
organizations to help forcibly displaced people and host communities confront
the root causes of the problem.







   " We will not reach our end poverty goal unless nations are secure and
citizens are not confronted by conflict and violence. "



   <h4>
    Jim Yong Kim</h4>
   President, World Bank Group





   "We will not reach our end poverty goal unless nations are secure and
citizens are not confronted by conflict and violence," said World Bank Group
President Jim Yong Kim. "The tragedy of forced displacement causes a tremendous
amount of human suffering, as we have seen on a daily basis with the Syrian
refugee crisis."

   The meeting followed pledges on Friday by eight countries and the European
Commission, who contributed to a package of more than $1 billion in support of
Syrian refugees and host communities in Jordan and Lebanon, as well as
reconstruction in the Middle East and North Africa.

   Japan, France, the United Kingdom, the United States, Germany, Canada, the
Netherlands, Norway, and the European Commission pledged contributions to the
New Financing Initiative to Support the Middle East and North Africa Region,
launched jointly by the World Bank Group, the United Nations, and the Islamic
Development Bank Group last October.

   Earlier Friday, Jordan's Queen Rania and other high-ranking officials called
for a new approach to forced displacement and a refugee crisis that has spread
from the Middle East into Europe over the last year.

   "We must respond to this monumental crisis with monumental solidarity," said
United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, adding that the issue will be
addressed at next month's World Humanitarian Summit.

   Countries are facing the refugee crisis and other global challenges such as
climate change in an environment of slowing global growth. The Development
Committee asked the Bank Group and IMF to provide developing countries with
policy advice and financial support amid weak demand, tighter financial markets,
softening trade, persistently low oil and commodity prices, and volatile capital
flows.

   Demand for lending from the Bank Group is at its highest for a non-crisis
period and is on track to climb to more than $150 billion over four years.

   "We're now working urgently and in new ways with partners to find solutions
to these issues that affect all of us," Kim said, addressing the media at the
beginning of the Meetings.

   One of those issues is climate change. The committee welcomed the Bank
Group's Climate Change Action Plan to help developing countries add 30 gigawatts
of renewable energy -- enough to power 150 million homes -- to the world's
energy capacity, bring early warning systems to 100 million people, and develop
climate-smart agriculture investment plans for at least 40 countries -- all by
2020.

   The committee urged the Bank Group to work with the World Health Organization
and others to help developing countries strengthen their health systems,
including pandemic prevention and preparedness. It also urged the Bank Group to
finish preparing its Pandemic Emergency Facility "as soon as possible and foster
a new market for pandemic risk management insurance."

   On Thursday, Kim and UNICEF Executive Director Anthony Lake urged global and
national leaders to step up and accelerate action and investment in nutrition
and early childhood development programs as a critical foundation for equitable
development and economic growth. The Bank and WHO also hosted a livestreamed
event on the need to make mental health a global development priority.

   The committee urged the Bank Group and IMF to step up efforts to find
financing for the ambitious Sustainable Development Goals, approved in
September, which are expected to require far more resources than official
development aid can supply. It said the multilateral development banks should
partner to "support developing countries' efforts to meet the SDGs, while
adjusting to a slower growth environment and reduced private capital flows."

   The committee said gender equality is central to the SDGs and welcomed the
Bank Group's renewed gender strategy.

   A special event with U.S. First Lady Michelle Obama on Wednesday highlighted
the issue in the context of equal access to education for girls. Obama urged
leaders to put girls' education at the "very top" of their agenda. Kim announced
the Bank Group would invest $2.5 billion in education projects benefiting
adolescent girls over the next five years.

   The committee said the International Development Association, the World
Bank's fund for the poorest countries, remains an important source of financing
for these countries and asked donors to show strong support for IDA's
replenishment this year.




LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              289 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             Assam Tribune (India)

                               May 6, 2016 Friday

European Winter

LENGTH: 1169 words

DATELINE: Guwahati


Guwahati, May 6 -- A few years back ' precisely in 2010 ' the word Arab Spring
came into vogue. The country was Tunisia. A popular upsurge against a corrupt
and authoritarian government fuelled by self immolation of Mohammad Bouazizi
spread across the country. The uprising forced President Zime El Abidine Ben Ali
to relinquish power and to flee to Saudi Arabia.

These events in Tunisia created euphoria amongst the disgruntled and unemployed
youths of the Middle East and North Africa. They all began to believe that the
panacea for all the ills of their country is a democratic form of government. In
no time, people particularly the youths of Egypt, Libya and Yemen were up
against their governments. As a result tens of thousands protested on the
streets of Egypt and fall of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak became imminent.
Soon Hosni Mubarak and his former internal minister Halrib Al Adli were
sentenced with life imprisonment.

In August, 2011 Gaddafi's government in Tripoli was toppled. Similar fate
awaited President Ali Abdulla Salah of Yemen resulting in a national unity
government. Numerous protest movements shook the Arab world till the middle of
2012. But to an unbiased observer a definite pattern is discernible in these
events. First, the western governments led by United States, United Kingdom and
France were more enthusiastic about transforming these countries to a democratic
form of government.

The obvious question is why? Perhaps the answer is western powers were more
interested in regime change than the welfare of the people of Middle East and
North Africa. These powers were also aware that it is not easy to teach
democratic norms to a vast population- long used to a feudal system. The proof
of this can be easily found in the slogan they created in Arabic: Ash-Sha'b
Yurid Isquat An-Nizam i.e. 'the people want to down the regime'. This reminds us
of the bogey of weapons of mass destruction created by American President George
W Bush and British Prime Minister Tony Blair. It reminds us, how American
Secretary of State Collin Powell made a fool of himself by making a pathetic
presentation in United Nations to convince the world that Iraq really had
weapons of mass destruction.

So we believe that the western world tried to exploit the real dissatisfaction
of the people of Middle East and North Africa to further their agenda of regime
change for consolidating their economic interests in these oil rich regions.

After their success in Iraq, Tunisia, Egypt and Yemen they were almost
successful in Syria. But for a determined Russia and Iran they are giving second
thoughts to topple Mr. Assad of Syria. Further when they realized that without
Russian help, they would not be able to contain the ISIS threat, western
powers-particularly United States of America was forced to take Russia into
their confidence for fighting ISIS.

Now the effect of Arab spring. By pursuing a narrow and selfish goal the western
powers have damaged the social fabric of Middle East and North Africa and have
thrown the countries into civil wars. As a result untold miseries have fallen,
millions of people had to flee their homes and hearth. But where to go?
Obviously, these refugees ' many hoodwinked by human traffickers-had chosen
Europe as their choicest destination.

They say, "When winter is there spring cannot be far behind". By the same logic
it is also true that when spring is there, winter cannot be far behind.
Paradoxically the winter I am referring to is not Arab winter but European
winter.

As a result of their uncalled for and unjustified interference in these regions,
millions of refugees are entering Europe. According to United Nations High
Commission for Refugees, Syrian refugees constituted forty nine per cent of over
one million refugees that reached Europe by sea in 2015. The fact that twenty
five per cent of this migrant population were children is a stark reminder of
the human angle of the problem. As if to atone themselves for their
misadventures, European countries like France and Germany embraced these
refugees from Middle East and North Africa with open arms. But thanks to the
rising influence of ISIS- another frankenstein created by the west the numbers
of refugees swelled to many millions. Even the rich countries like Germany,
France and United Kingdom are realizing that accepting these refugees will make
a serious dent to their economy.

Another factor to which the European countries were blind was the cultural
impact. Particularly after the unfortunate incident in Cologne, European nations
' particularly Germany-became aware that large scale influx of refugees will
create a serious social problem in future. Even a liberal chancellor like Angela
Markel became vocal about cultural security of German people. As of now almost
all the European nations are skeptical in accepting the refugees from the Muslim
world. It is apparent from the fact that many nations like Austria are erecting
fences to stop entry of these people to their countries. Even thousands of
refugees were unable to cross the English Channel as United Kingdom was firm in
not allowing them to their country.

On top of this, the genuine fear of extremists like ISIS or Al-Qaeda mingling
with these refugees made all the European nations jittery about their own
security. When poor countries like Greece, Spain or Italy are reluctant for
economic reasons, other countries like ' Austria, Hungary and Scandinavia are
obsessed that their culture and values will be totally destroyed by the alien
culture from Middle East and North Africa. Even in prosperous countries like
Germany, United Kingdom and France this crisis has eroded the credibility of
their political leaders. Even a popular leader like Chancellor Angela Markel of
Germany is openly questioned about her handling of the refugee crisis. As a
result many countries in Europe are bent on enacting new laws to block the easy
entry of the migrants.

In fact, the fear and apprehension raised by the people of Europe was soon
vindicated by the ISIS and Al-Qaeda sponsored terrorist acts perpetrated in
France and Belgium. Things have gone to such a pass, that many countries in
Europe are contemplating seriously to enact laws to bar further entry of
refugees from Middle East and North Africa.

The solution to this vexed problem is one: creating a peaceful Middle East and
North Africa. To a peaceful homeland many of the refugees will return. However,
for this western powers should give up the idea of regime change and give the
people of these regions a chance to genuinely select their own governments.
Further they must engage themselves in building these nations with substantial
financial help. Afterall these nations in Middle East and North Africa were
destroyed by wilful and selfish policies of the western countries.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Assam Tribune. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Assam Tribune (P) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              290 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           Cameroon Tribune (Yaoundé)

                                 April 20, 2016

PM Yang Holds Talks With U.S. Ambassador to UN

BYLINE: Roland Mbonteh

LENGTH: 178 words


The Prime Minister, Head of Government, Philemon Yang, yesterday April 19, 2016
in Yaounde, received the United States Ambassador to the United Nations,
Samantha Power, on an official visit to Cameroon. The US diplomat, accompanied
by the United States Ambassador to Cameroon, Michael Stephen Hoza, and Deputy
Secretary for African Affairs, Bruce Whartson, the Commander of the Special
Operations Command Africa, Brigadier General Donald Bolduc amongst others, held
discussions with the Prime Minister, focusing on the fight against the terrorist
sect, Boko Haram.

Though nothing filtered to the press after the over one hour talks, Ambassador
Power's visit to Cameroon, Cameroon Tribune gathered, seeks to reinforce US
support in the war against the barbaric activities of the Boko Haram insurgency
group in Cameroon's Far North Region.

Ambassador Samantha Power earlier on Monday April 18, 2016, visited the Minawao
Refugee camp in the Far North Region, where she met with thousands of Nigerian
refugees and internally displaced people who have fled Boko Haram attacks.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              291 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                            Concord Times (Freetown)

                                 April 19, 2016

World Bank Group Urged to Help Solve Refugee Crisis, Other Challenges

LENGTH: 837 words


Government ministers from around the world confronted the refugee crisis, a
slowing economy, and other global challenges at the 2016 World Bank Group-IMF
Spring Meetings.

"Forced Displacement and Development" was the only item on the agenda at the
Development Committee meeting on Saturday. The committee, which represents the
189 shareholder countries of the Bank Group and the IMF, urged its members to
take action to support vulnerable people who have been forced to flee their
homes, and encouraged the institutions to partner with humanitarian
organizations to help forcibly displaced people and host communities confront
the root causes of the problem.

"We will not reach our end poverty goal unless nations are secure and citizens
are not confronted by conflict and violence," said World Bank Group President
Jim Yong Kim. "The tragedy of forced displacement causes a tremendous amount of
human suffering, as we have seen on a daily basis with the Syrian refugee
crisis."

The meeting followed pledges on Friday by eight countries and the European
Commission, who contributed to a package of more than $1 billion in support of
Syrian refugees and host communities in Jordan and Lebanon, as well as
reconstruction in the Middle East and North Africa. Japan, France, the United
Kingdom, the United States, Germany, Canada, the Netherlands, Norway, and the
European Commission pledged contributions to the New Financing Initiative to
Support the Middle East and North Africa Region, launched jointly by the World
Bank Group, the United Nations, and the Islamic Development Bank Group last
October.

Earlier Friday, Jordan's Queen Rania and other high-ranking officials called for
a new approach to forced displacement and a refugee crisis that has spread from
the Middle East into Europe over the last year. "We must respond to this
monumental crisis with monumental solidarity," said United Nations
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, adding that the issue will be addressed at next
month's World Humanitarian Summit.

Countries are facing the refugee crisis and other global challenges such as
climate change in an environment of slowing global growth. The Development
Committee asked the Bank Group and IMF to provide developing countries with
policy advice and financial support amid weak demand, tighter financial markets,
softening trade, persistently low oil and commodity prices, and volatile capital
flows.

Demand for lending from the Bank Group is at its highest for a non-crisis period
and is on track to climb to more than $150 billion over four years. "We're now
working urgently and in new ways with partners to find solutions to these issues
that affect all of us," Kim said, addressing the media at the beginning of the
Meetings.

One of those issues is climate change. The committee welcomed the Bank Group's
Climate Change Action Plan to help developing countries add 30 gigawatts of
renewable energy -- enough to power 150 million homes -- to the world's energy
capacity, bring early warning systems to 100 million people, and develop
climate-smart agriculture investment plans for at least 40 countries -- all by
2020.

The committee urged the Bank Group to work with the World Health Organization
and others to help developing countries strengthen their health systems,
including pandemic prevention and preparedness. It also urged the Bank Group to
finish preparing its Pandemic Emergency Facility "as soon as possible and foster
a new market for pandemic risk management insurance."

On Thursday, Kim and UNICEF Executive Director Anthony Lake urged global and
national leaders to step up and accelerate action and investment in nutrition
and early childhood development programs as a critical foundation for equitable
development and economic growth. The Bank and WHO also hosted a livestreamed
event on the need to make mental health a global development priority.

The committee urged the Bank Group and IMF to step up efforts to find financing
for the ambitious Sustainable Development Goals, approved in September, which
are expected to require far more resources than official development aid can
supply. It said the multilateral development banks should partner to "support
developing countries' efforts to meet the SDGs, while adjusting to a slower
growth environment and reduced private capital flows."

The committee said gender equality is central to the SDGs and welcomed the Bank
Group's renewed gender strategy.

A special event with U.S. First Lady Michelle Obama on Wednesday highlighted the
issue in the context of equal access to education for girls. Obama urged leaders
to put girls' education at the "very top" of their agenda.

Kim announced the Bank Group would invest $2.5 billion in education projects
benefiting adolescent girls over the next five years. The committee said the
International Development Association, the World Bank's fund for the poorest
countries, remains an important source of financing for these countries and
asked donors to show strong support for IDA's replenishment this year.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              292 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            April 14, 2016 Thursday

Washington: Legislators speak to La Posada refugees

LENGTH: 377  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: Office of the MP Joyce Beatty has issued the following news
release:



 The members of Congress touring South Texas were full of questions for the
young African refugees standing in front of them.





 "What were the causes that you left your home country?" said U.S. Rep. Hank
Johnson, D- Georgia.



 He and 11 other members of the Congressional Black Caucus stopped Friday at La
Posada Providencia, which houses refugees fleeing danger in their home
countries.



 Johnson said U.S. Rep Filemon Vela, D-Brownsville, invited the congressmen to
his district to learn about health care and other issues.



 At La Posada, they sat at a round table while women from Eritrea, Ethiopia and
Somalia stood before them and told their stories of danger and survival.



 The woman addressed by Johnson explained the reasons why she and her husband
fled East Africa.



 "My husband was in prison for 21 days because of his political party," answered
the slender woman, her voice and gestures conveying grief and strength. Like the
other women's husbands, hers was in detention in another part of the country.



 Sister Zita Telkamp, program director of La Posada, told the legislators that
when a family crosses the border, there are no facilities to accommodate women
and/or children. Authorities call Sister Zita about accommodating them, and the
husbands are shipped off to detention.



 There recently had been a large influx of refugees.



 "I am from Eritrea," Almas said as she addressed the group.



 "How long have you been here?" said U.S. Rep. Joyce Beatty, D-Ohio.



 "One month," Almas said. "I came here with my husband, and he's in detention in
Washington, D.C."



 One legislator asked how they make the trip from Africa to the U.S. The women's
English wasn't good enough for them to explain. However, Jose Rodriguez, a
former refugee and resident who now works at the facility, explained they first
travel to South America and then journey north through Central America before
crossing the border into the United States.



 "That really is an Underground Railroad," Beatty said.



 "An international one," said U.S. Representative Yvette Clarke, D-New York.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              293 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                              Anadolu Agency (AA)

                            April 13, 2016 Wednesday

Aid invaluable to natl security, Bono tells US Congress

LENGTH: 474 words


Features

archive

By Michael Hernandez

WASHINGTON

Rock star Bono told U.S. lawmakers Tuesday it is imperative that foreign aid be
seen as a vital "bulwark" against extremism and growing humanitarian crises.

"Aid can no longer be seen as charity," the U2 front man said during testimony
before a Senate subcommittee.

"When it is structured properly, with a focus on fighting poverty and improving
governance to qualify for that aid, it could just be the best bulwark we have
against the violent extremism that is gaining traction in the Levant and in the
Sahel."

The storied musician's comments come as Europe and the Middle East continue to
weather an ongoing refugee crisis fueled by conflicts in the Middle East, Africa
and South Asia.

Syria, Afghanistan, Somalia, Sudan and South Sudan are the top five countries
that refugees hail from, according to the UN's refugee agency.

Five years of devastating conflict in Syria have resulted in the deaths of more
than 250,000 victims and displaced millions more, forcing an unprecedented
exodus of refugees to flow across the country's borders with Lebanon, Turkey and
Jordan.

Bono, who recently returned from a regional tour alongside subcommittee chairman
Sen. Lindsey Graham and a delegation of U.S. lawmakers, said the ongoing migrant
crisis is posing an "existential" problem for Europe.

"The integration of Europe, the very idea of European unity is at risk here," he
said, noting the rise of far-right groups who demur the flow of migrants across
European borders.

He urged the U.S. to refrain from turning inward in the face of the crisis and
to instead provide contingent aid to countries in need that require governments
to commit to long-lasting structural reforms.

"The reforms necessary for the loans can be as important as the loans
themselves," said Bono, who is the co-founder of the anti-poverty 1 Campaign.

"People say that America is ready to close in on itself," he said, "but America
becomes America when it looks outward. When you're a continent behaving like an
island, you're not America, it's just not who you are."

In Africa's Sahel alone there is a troubling confluence of factors that Bono
dubbed the "unholy trinity" facing the region: extreme ideology, extreme poverty
and extreme climate.

"Those three extremes make one unholy trinity of an enemy and our foreign policy
needs to face in that direction," he said. "It's even bigger than you think."
The longer that politicians drag behind the realities facing them, the more
expensive the bill to confront the problem becomes, he cautioned.

Nearly 175,00 migrants have arrived on the shores of Greece, Italy, Cyprus and
Spain through April 11, 2016, while 723 migrants have died this year alone as
they tried to reach Europe by sea.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/148/400/75/146054213673.jpg

Aid invaluable to natl security, Bono tells US Congress

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 400


                          Copyright 2016 Andolu Ajansi
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


This document could not be formatted for delivery. If your delivery request
included other documents, they completed successfully.

                              295 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                Caribbean News Now, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             March 5, 2016 Saturday

OPINION: The grand refugee debacle!

BYLINE: Jean H Charles, Caribbean News Now, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 903 words


March 05--The refugees are pouring into Europe at the rate of 65,000 a month,
coming from Syria, Afghanistan, Iran and a majority of African nations. They are
leaving behind countries shattered by war, ISIS, unfinished business of
interventions and internal fights of clans or tribes. Greece and Macedonia, the
natural port of entry, are overwhelmed by the sheer number of people to process
and dispatch to other Europeans countries.

Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, has demonstrated compassion in extending a
warm welcome to the refugees last December, but upcoming local elections and
migrant fatigue within the German population is compromising this welcoming mat.

There is a migrant summit set for March 18, 2016; as usual it will not go into
the core situation of why the migrants are leaving their home and how to stop
the flow from the point of origin.

The refugee problem is as acute on this side of the Atlantic, coming from all
points of Latin America and the Caribbean, mainly from Haiti, the Dominican
Republic, Cuba and Guyana, they are trekking through Mexico or Florida tying to
get into the United States. These refugees are escaping misery and drug turf
wars where they are caught in the middle.

If the problem is international, it is also national. The flow of refugees, say,
from rural Haiti or rural Mexico into the capital or all the major cities in the
Western Hemisphere is compromising all durable solution of urban planning. There
has been no comprehensive policy of transforming the rural setting into a haven
of peace, stability and growth with sane institutions, good infrastructure and
wealth creation through incubation.

Why these national and international cultures of hypocrisy are not attacking the
problem where it will matter and solving it for good? I am still puzzled by this
simple question. Of course, through time, there have been happy results. The
Marshall Plan after World War II transformed Europe into an emerging continent.
Colombia, plagued by drug and leftist struggle, is now pacified by flowers,
driving opium as the main export business.

The open border policy instituted by the Schengen agreement put in place in 1989
has created a Europe free of border control within 29 countries from Greece to
Ireland. This policy is being compromised today with one nation after another
contemplating big fences to stop the flow of immigrants. According to the
Guardian, it has produced lost business at the rate of 19 billion a year with a
projected loss of 100 billion in the next five years. Normal transportation of
goods and people that usually takes hours now demands days of search and
inconvenience.

The wealth of a nation depends on how the governance utilizes its human and
natural resources. A Europe with a declining population should welcome this
sudden inflow of workforce. Germany, the main engine of the European locomotive
under the leadership of Chancellor Angela Merkel may have understood this
equation but it is shared neither by her population nor by the rest of Europe.

The crux of the solution to the refugee dilemma is how to reconcile the
mathematical formula that skilled and incubated people equals wealth for a
nation while the higher aspiration that keeps people at home with decent
institutions and excellent infrastructure in a good governance umbrella will
finally produce a world at peace and in prosperity.

The unfortunate foreign interventions for democracy in Syria, Iraq, Libya and
Afghanistan, without a clear road map on how the situation will turn out when
the last foreign soldier has left the soil, have unleashed multiple clan and
turf wars where the civilians have been caught in the middle.

The military apparatus did not encourage the policy of nation building whereby
the sentiment of appurtenance would be rooted in the ethos of those fragmented
nations. A family divided always ends up with its own demise within a few
decades. This theory applies also to nations. The essential glue that will stop
the refugee debacle at its point of origin is to go back to Iraq, Afghanistan,
Libya and most of the African countries with an army of community organizers to
help build communities that will help themselves in building nations.

Otherwise in spite of the forward looking policy of Germany of welcoming some
refugees, in spite of the fences at the border, the flow of immigrants with the
painful spectacle of babies dying in the arms of their mothers because they are
cold and without food for days will continue unimpeded.

The next president of the United States, a Democrat or a Republican, will have
to consult with Angela Merkel and the rest of the European leadership to unleash
the second Marshall Plan in this millennium to deal for good and for last with
the refugee problem, not in Europe but at its point of origin -- the Middle East
and in Africa -- in diverting an army of social workers/ community organizers to
teach people how to build nations.

My old alma mater, Columbia University School of Social Work, was skilled in
that specialty in the 70s. Is she ready to take the lead in convincing the world
policymakers this is the way to go? A critical mass of alumni must shout loud,
let's go, and the rest of the world will follow!

___ (c)2016 the Caribbean News Now (Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands) Visit the
Caribbean News Now (Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands) at www.caribbeannewsnow.com
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160305-1CN-OPINION-The-grand-refugee-debacle-0305-20160305

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1CN


        Copyright 2016 Caribbean News Now, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands

                              296 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               Leadership (Abuja)

                               February 12, 2016

Boko Haram Forced 100,000 Nigerians to Live Abroad As Refugees - U.S.

BYLINE: Abdullahi Umar

LENGTH: 245 words


The United States, U.S, Assistant Secretary for African Affairs, Mrs Linda
Thomas-Greenfield has revealed that about 100,000 Nigerians are currently living
outside Nigeria as refugees in neighbouring countries.

Thomas-Linda, who announced this to journalists from across Africa in a
tele-press conference yesterday disclosed that Boko Haram terror attacks had
forced over one million Nigerians out of their homes, stressing that the
displaced persons had serious concerns that urgently needed to be addressed.

According to her, "Thousands of families, ordinary people, have been impacted by
Boko Haram and these people have serious concerns that urgently need to be
addressed," she said.

She said that Washington had been working closely with Nigeria and her
neighbouring countries in addressing problem of terrorism in the region.

The U.S. envoy stated that there were multifaceted efforts in place to deal with
security issues as well as dealing with the root causes.

She further disclosed that the United States had been working with and providing
support for governments in the region through the Multinational Joint Task
Force.

"We're also working with governments to look at broad economic development in
the regions affected by Boko Haram by encouraging businesses to invest in those
areas.

"We are also working with the government to ensure that those who have been
victims of Boko Haram receive the assistance that they require to rebuild their
lives," Thomas-Linda said.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 11, 2016 Thursday

Ohio: City Club Fridays @ the Library

LENGTH: 301  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Columbus: Cuyahoga County has issued the following event detail:



  City Club Fridays @ the Library



 Friday, February 12, 2016, 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM



 Location: Parma-Snow -



 Audiences: Adults



 Event Type: General



 Watch our live stream of the City Club of Cleveland Friday Forums on the big
screen in the Parma-Snow Branch Auditorium. You do not have to be a City Club
member to participate and submit your questions LIVE to the forum via Twitter.





 FRIDAY FORUM: MILLIONS AND MILLIONS OF MIGRANTS AND REFUGEES...AND WHAT
AMERICANS CAN DO TO HELP



 According to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
(UNHCR), nearly 60 million people were considered refugees in 2014 - the highest
level since 1945. More than half are children. Ongoing conflicts in the Middle
East, sub-Saharan Africa, Myanmar, and Central America are responsible for the
drastic increase in displaced people.



 The United States (U.S.) is one of the world's top resettlement countries for
refugees. In 2015, The Migration Policy Institute reported resettling nearly
70,000 refugees. But could - or should - we be doing more?



 Join us for a conversation with Anne C. Richard, Assistant Secretary of the
U.S. Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, on the worldwide refugee
crisis and how Americans can help.



 This event will be held in the Parma-Snow Branch Auditorium. Speakers will
begin at 12:30 p.m.



 The City Club of Cleveland Friday Forum Series is a vibrant, dynamic and
diverse forum for citizens and thought leaders to discuss issues and ideas that
shape our region, nation, and the world.



 City Club Fridays @ the Library are free and open to the public. Registration
is not required.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                Vanguard (Lagos)

                               February 11, 2016

U.S. Condemns Suicide Attacks On IDPs

LENGTH: 163 words


The United States Embassy in Nigeria on Thursday, condemned the recent
terrorists suicide attacks on the camp of Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) in
Dikwa community, Borno, in the North Eastern part of Nigeria.

It was reported that about 58 people were killed and about 78 others injured
after suicide bombers detonated explosives at the IDP camp.

The US Diplomatic Mission in Abuja, in a statement restated the U.S.
government's continued support for the Nigerian government in fighting
terrorism.

"The US Embassy condemns the reported suicide attacks on internally displaced
persons in Dikwa town, Borno State, that occurred on Feb. 9.

"The US remains committed to assisting internally displaced populations in
North-Eastern Nigeria through humanitarian relief efforts.

"We will also continue to support the Nigerian government in its fight against
terrorism," it said.

The statement also expressed the American government's "deepest condolences" to
the families of the victims. (NAN)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              299 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 9, 2016 Tuesday

Ohio: City Club Fridays @ the Library

LENGTH: 301  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Columbus: Cuyahoga County has issued the following event detail:



 City Club Fridays @ the Library



 Friday, February 12, 2016, 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM



 Location: Parma-Snow -



 Audiences: Adults



 Event Type: General



 Watch our live stream of the City Club of Cleveland Friday Forums on the big
screen in the Parma-Snow Branch Auditorium. You do not have to be a City Club
member to participate and submit your questions LIVE to the forum via Twitter.





 FRIDAY FORUM: MILLIONS AND MILLIONS OF MIGRANTS AND REFUGEES...AND WHAT
AMERICANS CAN DO TO HELP



 According to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
(UNHCR), nearly 60 million people were considered refugees in 2014 - the highest
level since 1945. More than half are children. Ongoing conflicts in the Middle
East, sub-Saharan Africa, Myanmar, and Central America are responsible for the
drastic increase in displaced people.



 The United States (U.S.) is one of the world's top resettlement countries for
refugees. In 2015, The Migration Policy Institute reported resettling nearly
70,000 refugees. But could - or should - we be doing more?



 Join us for a conversation with Anne C. Richard, Assistant Secretary of the
U.S. Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, on the worldwide refugee
crisis and how Americans can help.



 This event will be held in the Parma-Snow Branch Auditorium. Speakers will
begin at 12:30 p.m.



 The City Club of Cleveland Friday Forum Series is a vibrant, dynamic and
diverse forum for citizens and thought leaders to discuss issues and ideas that
shape our region, nation, and the world.



 City Club Fridays @ the Library are free and open to the public. Registration
is not required.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              300 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 9, 2016 Tuesday

Ohio: City Club Fridays @ the Library

LENGTH: 301  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Columbus: Cuyahoga County has issued the following event detail:



 City Club Fridays @ the Library



 Friday, February 12, 2016, 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM



 Location: Parma-Snow -



 Audiences: Adults



 Event Type: General



 Watch our live stream of the City Club of Cleveland Friday Forums on the big
screen in the Parma-Snow Branch Auditorium. You do not have to be a City Club
member to participate and submit your questions LIVE to the forum via Twitter.





 FRIDAY FORUM: MILLIONS AND MILLIONS OF MIGRANTS AND REFUGEES...AND WHAT
AMERICANS CAN DO TO HELP



 According to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
(UNHCR), nearly 60 million people were considered refugees in 2014 - the highest
level since 1945. More than half are children. Ongoing conflicts in the Middle
East, sub-Saharan Africa, Myanmar, and Central America are responsible for the
drastic increase in displaced people.



 The United States (U.S.) is one of the world's top resettlement countries for
refugees. In 2015, The Migration Policy Institute reported resettling nearly
70,000 refugees. But could - or should - we be doing more?



 Join us for a conversation with Anne C. Richard, Assistant Secretary of the
U.S. Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, on the worldwide refugee
crisis and how Americans can help.



 This event will be held in the Parma-Snow Branch Auditorium. Speakers will
begin at 12:30 p.m.



 The City Club of Cleveland Friday Forum Series is a vibrant, dynamic and
diverse forum for citizens and thought leaders to discuss issues and ideas that
shape our region, nation, and the world.



 City Club Fridays @ the Library are free and open to the public. Registration
is not required.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              301 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                 The Free Lance-Star (Fredericksburg, Virginia)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            February 7, 2016 Sunday

Former refugees cherish 'miracle' life in Stafford

BYLINE: Amy Flowers Umble, The Free Lance-Star, Fredericksburg, Va.

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 967 words


Feb. 07--The walls were up. The roof was framed. The house in North Stafford was
almost finished.

But as he applied a thin coat of gray paint to a bedroom wall, Alphonse
Habonimana couldn't picture living within those walls.

"My brain stopped working," he said. "I don't believe this. I don't believe,
maybe next year I will have this house."

Two weeks later, Habonimana and his family moved in.

He was astonished at how quickly the Greater Fredericksburg Habitat for Humanity
built his home, expecting it to take a year or more. From the moment the
footings were poured, Habonimana waited 10 weeks for his house to be complete,
but his path from refugee to renter to homeowner was long and winding.

At times, living in a refugee camp in Tanzania, Habonimana didn't have a roof
over his head at all. He couldn't imagine a life as a homeowner in America. But
Habonimana had faith in God and plenty of experience with fresh starts.

He doesn't like to relive his past.

"I try to forget, I don't talk about it, it's too hard," Habonimana said. "It's
hard for talking. Life in camps is no good; it's a bad life. I can't express
it."

He was about 6 years old when his parents fled Burundi, a central African
country that has been plagued by civil wars and violence for the past four
decades.

He grew up in a refugee camp, married and had six children. He started a
business sewing clothes.

In 1993, he and his family heard the news they'd been waiting for: Burundi was
safe. Refugees could go home.

Habonimana and his family moved to their homeland, hoping to start a new life.
He planted a large garden, learned to build houses, sewed clothes, raised
animals.

Four years later, Habonimana fled Burundi with his only surviving child on his
back. His wife, his other children, his parents and several siblings died in
fighting that broke out again in Burundi.

He carried his 6-year-old daughter through Burundi to Tanzania. He tried to
create a new life for her, but it was difficult to build a future in a Tanzanian
refugee camp.

If he crafted a dwelling from trees and bricks, it would be destroyed within
months. It seemed pointless at times.

He met Analissa Kabura, a fellow Burundian, in the camp. They fell in love and
married in December 1998.

They had three children: Nishimine, Samwell and Estelle.

And then, nine years after they wed, Habonimana and Kabura learned that they
would be resettled in the United States.

"I couldn't even hope for it. I never think of it," Habonimana said. "It's a
miracle."

A NEW LIFE IN AMERICA

Since Burundians began fleeing their homeland in 1973, their goal was simply to
return to their country. Many died in camps, waiting for Burundi to be safe.

Refugees from other countries were resettled in America and other nations. But
not Burundians.

Around 2005, the United States started making Burundians a priority group for
resettlement. After three decades, many in the international community decided
it was time to offer these refugees a new life.

In July 2007, Habonimana and his family moved to Fredericksburg. They were among
a group of about 100 refugees who were resettled in the area through the Refugee
and Migration Services of the Arlington Diocese of the Catholic Church.

The family settled into life in the city. The children enrolled in
Fredericksburg schools and the parents started working at Walmart.

Getting adjusted to America took time. No one in the family spoke English. The
children enrolled in English for Speakers of Other Languages classes at school.
But the parents were busy going back and forth to work and taking care of their
children. Learning the language wasn't as easy for them.

Habonimana had owned his own business in Africa. He knew how to build houses and
sew clothes and had studied theology. But those experiences were meaningless
when he searched for jobs.

"Basically in America, you have to start over," daughter Nishimine said. "And
it's really hard to start over. But my parents are really hard-working and they
provide for us."

Habonimana's oldest daughter--the child he carried on his back to safety years
ago--settled in Kentucky.

'A COMFORTABLE PLACE'

The family grew to include two more children--Melanie and Jole. Their apartment
grew cramped, and a friend told Habonimana about Habitat for Humanity.

He and his wife volunteered with the local chapter and took classes in home
ownership and budgeting.

They helped build their new home, alongside other volunteers and Construction
Manager Amber Smith. They watched the house take shape.

"I'm thankful for Miss Amber," Analissa said. "I'm going to think about what she
did for the rest of my life."

She and her husband chose muted colors for the walls, installed siding, hammered
boards on the front porch, planned who would sleep in each of the five bedrooms.

But the house didn't seem real.

Smith promised the couple the new home would be ready by Christmas, and
Habonimana and Kabura got their keys early that week, though they waited to
move, settling in on Dec. 27.

With their children, they are setting up the rooms and getting used to their
home.

"It's good, it's good," Habonimana said. "To be like this, it's good. This is a
comfortable place."

The children are anxious about starting new schools in Stafford County, worried
about taking new classes and making new friends.

And the parents are learning that traffic on State Route 610 means planning an
extra 30 minutes for every trip.

But the family knows a lot about fresh starts--and they look forward to this
one.

"This life, I didn't see before," Habonimana said. "I'm very happy. It's good
things I have today."

Amy Flowers Umble: 540.735-1973

aumble@freelancestar.com

___ (c)2016 The Free Lance-Star (Fredericksburg, Va.) Visit The Free Lance-Star
(Fredericksburg, Va.) at www.fredericksburg.com/flshome Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160207-FB-Former-refugees
-cherish-miracle-life-in-Stafford-0207-20160207

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FB


                       Copyright 2016 The Free Lance-Star

                              302 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 3, 2016 Wednesday

Washington: Rep. Johnson Calls for Suspension of Immigration Raids, Temporary
Protected Status for Refugees

LENGTH: 1053 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: Office of the MP Hank Johnson has issued the following news
release:



 Congressman Hank Johnson (D-GA) joined more than 145 members of Congress
sending a letter to President Obama urging the Administration to immediately
halt ICE raids targeting Central American families and children.





 The letter also calls on the Administration to find a regional and
comprehensive solution to the refugee crisis in Central America including "
refugee screening and resettlement, the use of safe havens in appropriate third
countries, Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for those individuals in the United
States, the use of priority refugee processing, and other humanitarian
remedies."   And to guarantee due process and protections for mothers and
children fleeing violence in El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras.



 The full text of the letter is below:



 Dear Mr. President:



 We strongly condemn the Department of Homeland Security's recent enforcement
operation targeting refugee mothers and children from El Salvador, Honduras, and
Guatemala.  The DHS operation has generated widespread fear and panic in
immigrant communities and has far-reaching impacts beyond the alleged targets
for removal.  The operation raises numerous due process concerns including
meaningful access to legal counsel for mothers and children after apprehension
and DHS officers reportedly using deceptive tactics to gain entrance into
private residences.  For these reasons and others, we believe that this
operation should be immediately suspended until we can ensure no mother or child
will be sent back to a country where they would face persecution, torture or
death.



 Globally, there are currently more refugees, asylum seekers and internally
displaced persons - an estimated 60 million - than at any time since World War
II.  You and your Administration have upheld time-honored American values by
offering refuge to those fleeing violence and disorder in the Middle East,
Africa, and Asia. We commend you for that.



 However, these same fundamental American values have not been applied in your
Administration's policies towards Central American refugee mothers and children.
The brutality of violence in Central America is undeniable, and yet this
Administration has failed to provide a comprehensive refugee solution for those
seeking international refugee protection. According to data shared by DHS, 85%
of Central American families in detention have established threshold eligibility
for refugee protection.  Rather than preserving our commitment to refugee
protection, your Administration continues to pursue policies that treat Central
American refugees as an immigration enforcement matter.



 Thus far, your Administration has responded to the Central American refugee
crisis with an emphasis on deterrence rather than the need for a regional
refugee solution.  Your Administration has used family detention, Spanish
language communication campaigns in Central America urging people not to come to
the United States, and financial assistance to Mexico to deter, arrest, and
return those fleeing violence. This strategy has proven to be ineffective, as
mothers and children continue to arrive at our Southwest border seeking refugee
protection. Desperate Central American mothers and children will continue to
flee to the United States and seek protection, regardless of the deterrent
actions taken by this Administration.



 The recent operation to apprehend and remove families - several of whom
reported inadequate legal representation - is the latest failure in this
enforcement strategy.  The fact that several of these families were subsequently
granted emergency stays of removal indicates that the system has failed these
refugees, notwithstanding final administrative removal orders.  A final
administrative removal order does not necessarily mean that these mothers and
children do not have legitimate claims for refugee protection.  We are gravely
concerned that DHS may have already removed mothers and children from the United
States and returned them to violent and dangerous situations in their home
countries.



 The crisis in our hemisphere will only be resolved when the United States
engages in a comprehensive, regional solution to this refugee crisis.  This
solution should include refugee screening and resettlement, the use of safe
havens in appropriate third countries, Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for
those individuals in the United States, the use of priority refugee processing,
and other humanitarian remedies.  It is critical that this approach include
cooperation with other countries in the Western Hemisphere.  The violence in the
Northern Triangle of Central America and the resulting refugee flow affects our
entire region, and the United States' solution should include a regional refugee
resettlement program as well as increased capacity building of asylum systems in
neighboring countries.



 This comprehensive approach should also include collaboration with
non-governmental organizations with expertise in international refugee
protection such as the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees (UNHCR).  Organizations such as UNHCR can assist the United States and
our regional partners in screening refugees and can provide critical guidance
regarding the best practices for refugee care and management.



 The goal of this comprehensive refugee approach should be to ensure that
Central American refugees, particularly mothers and children, are able to live
free from an endless cycle of violence and persecution. It is time to start
working towards a solution that provides a practical and humane response to the
mothers and children from Central America fleeing for their lives and seeking
safety and protection.  Failure to provide this comprehensive solution will
continue to lead to disorder at our border and will further a sense of unease
across the United States.



 We urge you to immediately halt the current enforcement actions towards Central
American mothers and children and take steps to engage in a comprehensive effort
with our hemispheric partners to address this regional refugee crisis in an
appropriate humanitarian manner.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              303 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          International New York Times

                           January 28, 2016 Thursday

Friends and refugees in need

BYLINE: BY THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 856 words

DATELINE: STOCKHOLM

ABSTRACT

A tidal wave of people threatens to overwhelm America's top ally, the European
Union.

FULL TEXT

Now in his last year in office, President Obama is in legacy mode. He has much
to be proud of. But if he doesn't want his achievements muddied by foreign
policy, he'll spend his last year redoubling his efforts to contain the Middle
East refugee crisis before it goes from a giant humanitarian problem to a giant
geostrategic problem that shatters America's most important ally: the European
Union.

I know - putting ''European Union'' into the lead of a column published in
America is like a ''Do Not Read'' sign. Maybe I should call it ''Trump's
European Union.'' That would go viral. But for the two of you still reading,
this is really important.

The meltdowns of Syria, Somalia, Eritrea, Mali, Chad and Yemen and our takedowns
of Libya, Iraq and Afghanistan - without proper follow-up on our part, NATO's
part or by local elites - has uncorked the worst refugee crisis since World War
II. This tidal wave of migrants and refugees is a human tragedy, and their
outflow from Syria and Libya in particular is destabilizing all the neighboring
islands of decency: Tunisia, Jordan, Lebanon, Kurdistan and Turkey. And now it
is eating away at the fabric of the E.U. as well.

Why should Americans care? Because the E.U. is the United States of Europe - the
world's other great center of democracy and economic opportunity. It has its
military shortcomings, but with its wealth and liberal values, the E.U. has
become America's primary partner in addressing climate change, managing Iran and
Russia and containing disorder in the Middle East and Africa.

This partnership amplifies American power and, if the E.U. is hobbled or
fractured, America will have to do so many more things around the world with
much less help.

At a seminar in Davos, Switzerland, sponsored by the Wilson Center, I
interviewed David Miliband, president of the International Rescue Committee,
which oversees relief operations in more than 30 war-affected countries. He made
several key points.

First, one in every 122 people on the planet today is ''fleeing a conflict'' at
a time when wars between nations ''are at a record low,'' said Miliband, a
former British foreign secretary. Why? Because we now have nearly 30 civil wars
underway in weak states that are ''unable to meet the basic needs of citizens or
contain civil war.''

Second, he said, last year the rescue committee assisted 23 million refugees and
internally displaced individuals. Some 50 percent of those going to Europe come
directly out of Syria and most of the rest come from Iraq, Afghanistan, Somalia
and Eritrea - and the international humanitarian relief system ''is now being
overwhelmed by the numbers.''

Last year, within the E.U. bloc there were 56 million truck crossings between
countries and every day 1.7 million crossings by people. Preserving that free
movement of trucks, trade and people, Miliband added, is a huge ''economic
prize,'' but it will not be sustained if E.U. countries feel swamped by refugees
who can't be properly registered or absorbed.

More and more countries are now sealing their borders, and anti-immigrant
parties are rising everywhere. Sweden has imposed border controls, and its
ultranationalist Sweden Democrats party has grown from the fringe to one of the
largest. Many in Germany, Sweden and Austria, which have accepted the lion's
share of refugees so far, want to seal off Greece from the E.U.'s passport-free
internal travel zone if Greece - the first port of entry of many refugees - is
unable or unwilling to hold them.

In the past few days, The Guardian reported, national leaders and top E.U.
officials warned ''that Europe's passport-free travel zone could crumble within
weeks, risking the dissolution of the union.''

Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany was well intentioned when she opened her
country to 1.1 million Arab, African and Afghan migrants last year, but it was
also reckless of her to think that so many immigrants, primarily Muslims, could
be properly absorbed so quickly into society in Germany - a country that took
two decades and billions of dollars to absorb East Germans. Merkel's open-door
policy drew even more refugees to the E.U., and now that the Germans want to
stop the flow, their neighbors won't take them.

''This refugee crisis is a real arrow pointed at the heart of the European
Union,'' said Miliband. ''There is no solution that confines itself within the
borders of Europe.'' As long as there is ''war without law and without end in
Syria,'' the refugee flow will continue, with all its destabilizing
implications.

Obama did not cause this Syria problem, and he can't fix it alone - but it's not
going to get fixed without U.S. leadership. I have shared the president's
caution about getting involved on the ground in Syria. But I now believe we need
to take another look at establishing some kind of U.S./E.U./NATO safe zone
inside Syria and Libya to create space for refugees to remain in these
countries. It's not a panacea or cost-free, but letting this refugee disaster
fracture the E.U. will be a lot more expensive.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              304 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 27, 2016 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Friends and Refugees in Need

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 872 words


STOCKHOLM -- Now in his last year in office, President Obama is in legacy mode.
He has much to be proud of. But if he doesn't want his achievements muddied by
foreign policy, he'll spend his last year redoubling his efforts to contain the
Middle East refugee crisis before it goes from a giant humanitarian problem to a
giant geostrategic problem that shatters America's most important ally: the
European Union.

I know -- putting ''European Union'' into the lead of a column published in
America is like a ''Do Not Read'' sign. Maybe I should call it ''Trump's
European Union.'' That would go viral. But for the two of you still reading,
this is really important.

The meltdowns of Syria, Somalia, Eritrea, Mali, Chad and Yemen and our takedowns
of Libya, Iraq and Afghanistan -- without proper follow-up on our part, NATO's
part or by local elites -- has uncorked the worst refugee crisis since World War
II. This tidal wave of migrants and refugees is a human tragedy, and their
outflow from Syria and Libya in particular is destabilizing all the neighboring
islands of decency: Tunisia, Jordan, Lebanon, Kurdistan and Turkey. And now it
is eating away at the fabric of the E.U. as well.

Why should Americans care? Because the E.U. is the United States of Europe --
the world's other great center of democracy and economic opportunity. It has its
military shortcomings, but with its wealth and liberal values, the E.U. has
become America's primary partner in addressing climate change, managing Iran and
Russia and containing disorder in the Middle East and Africa.

This partnership amplifies American power and, if the E.U. is hobbled or
fractured, America will have to do so many more things around the world with
much less help.

At a seminar in Davos, Switzerland, sponsored by the Wilson Center, I
interviewed David Miliband, president of the International Rescue Committee,
which oversees relief operations in more than 30 war-affected countries. He made
several key points.

First, one in every 122 people on the planet today is ''fleeing a conflict'' at
a time when wars between nations ''are at a record low,'' said Miliband, a
former British foreign secretary. Why? Because we now have nearly 30 civil wars
underway in weak states that are ''unable to meet the basic needs of citizens or
contain civil war.''

Second, he said, last year the rescue committee assisted 23 million refugees and
internally displaced individuals. Some 50 percent of those going to Europe come
directly out of Syria and most of the rest come from Iraq, Afghanistan, Somalia
and Eritrea -- and the international humanitarian relief system ''is now being
overwhelmed by the numbers.''

Last year, within the E.U. bloc there were 56 million truck crossings between
countries and every day 1.7 million crossings by people. Preserving that free
movement of trucks, trade and people, Miliband added, is a huge ''economic
prize,'' but it will not be sustained if E.U. countries feel swamped by refugees
who can't be properly registered or absorbed.

More and more countries are now sealing their borders, and anti-immigrant
parties are rising everywhere. Sweden has imposed border controls, and its
ultranationalist Sweden Democrats party has grown from the fringe to one of the
largest. Many in Germany, Sweden and Austria, which have accepted the lion's
share of refugees so far, want to seal off Greece from the E.U.'s passport-free
internal travel zone if Greece -- the first port of entry of many refugees -- is
unable or unwilling to hold them.

In the past few days, The Guardian reported, national leaders and top E.U.
officials warned ''that Europe's passport-free travel zone could crumble within
weeks, risking the dissolution of the union.''

Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany was well intentioned when she opened her
country to 1.1 million Arab, African and Afghan migrants last year, but it was
also reckless of her to think that so many immigrants, primarily Muslims, could
be properly absorbed so quickly into society in German -- a country that took
two decades and billions of dollars to absorb East Germans. Merkel's open-door
policy drew even more refugees to the E.U., and now that the Germans want to
stop the flow, their neighbors won't take them.

''This refugee crisis is a real arrow pointed at the heart of the European
Union,'' said Miliband. ''There is no solution that confines itself within the
borders of Europe.'' As long as there is ''war without law and without end in
Syria,'' the refugee flow will continue, with all its destabilizing
implications.

Obama did not cause this Syria problem, and he can't fix it alone -- but it's
not going to get fixed without U.S. leadership. I have shared the president's
caution about getting involved on the ground in Syria. But I now believe we need
to take another look at establishing some kind of U.S./E.U./NATO safe zone
inside Syria and Libya to create space for refugees to remain in these
countries. It's not a panacea or cost-free, but letting this refugee disaster
fracture the E.U. will be a lot more expensive.

I invite you to follow me on Twitter.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/27/opinion/friends-and-refugees-in-need.html

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company

                              305 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                            January 24, 2016 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

bending it all around the world

BYLINE: The Canberra Times

SECTION: A; Pg. C019

LENGTH: 1107  words


( (From top) David Beckham stops to take a selfie with the children from Shree
Padma Secondary School in Kathmandu, Nepal - Beckham travelled to every
continent on Earth for a BBC documentary about grassroots football; and Black
Sails is returning to Showcase.

bending it all around Soccer superstar David Beckham visits seven continents to
share his joy of the game, writes Melinda Houston.

the world DAVID BECKHAM: FOR THE LOVE OF THE GAME ???

Sunday, January 24, 6.30pm, UKTV David Beckham is a bit like a poor man's Karl
Pilkington. He's not as insightful, and he's certainly not as funny, but there's
an unself-conscious frankness to him that makes him a comfortable travelling
companion. In this surprisingly engaging documentary, Beckham decides to play
seven games of soccer in seven different continents over the 10 days leading up
to a massive match at Old Trafford in support of his charity of choice, Unicef.

He begins in PNG, then hits Nepal, East Africa, South America, Antarctica, the
United States, and finally home to England.

In the first four locations he seeks out some of the most disadvantaged
communities he can find, where Unicef is hard at work and here football is a
unifying and optimistic force - getting mobbed wherever he goes. And that's one
of the endearing things about Beckham. He clearly likes being famous. But what
he loves is playing football and he is having the time of his life whether he's
kicking a ball made of banana leaves around a patch of mud in the PNG highlands
or crapping it out on a gravel pitch in a Djibouti refugee camp. It's a pleasure
that's infectious.

BLACK SAILS Series return ???

Thursday, January 28, 8.30pm, Showcase This complex swashbuckler returns for a
third season tonight, and last season's finale certainly left us with plenty to
ponder. Flint looked like a man with nothing left to lose (always dangerous);
Vane continued to confound us; and Silver's scheming felt like it was drawing us
ever closer to Treasure Island. Our own Luke Arnold is terrific as Silver, but
all the large cast completely enter into the spirit of the adventure.

THE SUPERVET: SUMMER IN THE FIELDS ???

Sunday, January 24, 8.30pm, Lifestyle Professor Noel Fitzpatrick isn't actually
performing surgery in a field but no episode of this series would be complete
without some pretty confronting operating-room scenes. Mostly, though, this is
strictly feel-good as the prof hosts a dog-o-rama in a Surrey field. There are
all kinds of fun and games. We get to see how some former patients are faring.
And every dog lover's heart will be warmed by the sight of 10,000-plus canines
and their owners (both of all shapes and styles) undertaking an walk en masse.

AUSTRALIA DAY ???

Tuesday, January 26, from 7am, FoxtelArts If you're feeling a bit over the ocker
jingoism of Australia Day, switch on Foxtel Arts and remind yourself that, along
with the louts and larrikins, we are also an extremely cultured nation. There's
a marathon of art and music scheduled today, starting with Baz Luhrman's La
Boheme at 7am. Other highlights include Aida: Handa Opera on Sydney Harbour
(1.30pm) and Hidden Treasures of Australian Art (7.30pm) before we go out with a
bang at 11pm when INXS take to the stage in Mystify: Live at Rockpalast.

THE LOGAN PROJECT ????

Tuesday, January 26, 8.30pm, SBS The sprawling district of Logan, on the
southern edge of Brisbane, seems an unlikely location for a multicultural hot
spot. But more than 200 different cultures co-exist there - more than in any
other place in Australia - often not so comfortably. Until recently, Logan was
also Queensland's crime epicentre, beloved of the tabloid media for its running
street brawls. So the good people of Logan decided to set themselves straight,
with the community nominating music as the best way to bring people together and
reshape their image. Enter the Queensland Music Festival, and a massive public
performance incorporating all the best Logan culture has to offer: musicians,
singers, rappers, dancers and go-kart drivers. Over two hours, both screening
tonight, this terrific documentary follows the process, from auditions through
to exhilarating final performance. There's something very moving about seeing
how many disenfranchised, disadvantaged and shy people use music as their
refuge. This is peppered with stories of personal hardship and redemption. It's
also inspiring to see what can be achieved when white folk from the city take
the time to engage in genuine consultation. As a film, The Logan Project is
simply but thoughtfully produced. Interesting shot choices, an eye for detail,
tidy editing, a well-structured narrative and a great range of characters all
contribute to making this an involving and engaging watch. What's most uplifting
is simply the enormous enthusiasm and goodwill of everyone involved - and the
evidence of just what can be achieved when those luminous qualities are
effectively harnessed.

SPORT: CRICKET Sunday, January 24, 2.30pm, 7pm, Ten What a season it has been
for the Big Bash! As one commentator noted, when you get 80,000 people to a
match you have to start taking it seriously. There's been scandal, there's been
thrills, there's been feel-good (lookin' at you, Watermelon Boy). We've finally
had the chance to see our world-class women's cricketers in action. The
commentary of both the men's and women's matches has been terrific (even the
tweets are entertaining). Now it all comes to a head with two big grand finals.
We can't wait.

SPORT: TENNIS ???

Saturday, January 30, 6.30pm, Seven If you only watch tennis once during the
Australian Open, it'll probably be next Sunday night for the men's singles
final. But if you have any sense, you'll swap out that gruntathon for this,
which promises to be as skilful and exciting as anything you'll see all year. At
the time of writing who exactly will be taking part is yet to be decided, but
the combination of the men's doubles final and the women's singles final should
be a display of skill, power and finesse. Not to be missed.

INSIDE MEN Series final ???

Tuesday, January 26, 9.20pm, ABC The first instalment of Inside Men left me a
bit cold but it has improved with each episode to evolve into not so much a
crime thriller as a fascinating character study. Tonight the two timelines
finally collide, and in a very clever piece of writing, editing and direction we
revisit the opening scenes of the first episode with a completely different
perspective on the action and understanding of the characters. Apart from
anything else, it vividly demonstrates the abilities of the core cast - Steven
Mackintosh as John Coniston is a standout.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RX


       Copyright 2016 The Federal Capital Press of Australia PTY Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              306 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 18, 2016 Monday

Washington: Van Hollen Calls for Suspension of Immigration Raids, Temporary
Protected Status for Refugees

LENGTH: 1073  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: Office of the MP Chris Van Hollen has issued the following news
release:



 Maryland Congressman Chris Van Hollen and more than 145 House Democrats have
sent a letter to President Obama calling for a suspension of the Immigration and
Customs Enforcement (ICE) home raids that have targeted Central American
families and children.





 "We strongly condemn the Department of Homeland Security's recent enforcement
operation targeting refugee mothers and children from El Salvador, Honduras, and
Guatemala," the Members wrote. "The crisis in our hemisphere will only be
resolved when the United States engages in a comprehensive, regional solution to
this refugee crisis. This solution should include refugee screening and
resettlement, the use of safe havens in appropriate third countries, Temporary
Protected Status (TPS) for those individuals in the United States, the use of
priority refugee processing, and other humanitarian remedies."



 The full text of the letter is below:



 Dear Mr. President:



 We strongly condemn the Department of Homeland Security's recent enforcement
operation targeting refugee mothers and children from El Salvador, Honduras, and
Guatemala.  The DHS operation has generated widespread fear and panic in
immigrant communities and has far-reaching impacts beyond the alleged targets
for removal.  The operation raises numerous due process concerns including
meaningful access to legal counsel for mothers and children after apprehension
and DHS officers reportedly using deceptive tactics to gain entrance into
private residences.  For these reasons and others, we believe that this
operation should be immediately suspended until we can ensure no mother or child
will be sent back to a country where they would face persecution, torture or
death.



 Globally, there are currently more refugees, asylum seekers and internally
displaced persons - an estimated 60 million - than at any time since World War
II.  You and your Administration have upheld time-honored American values by
offering refuge to those fleeing violence and disorder in the Middle East,
Africa, and Asia. We commend you for that.



 However, these same fundamental American values have not been applied in your
Administration's policies towards Central American refugee mothers and children.

  The brutality of violence in Central America is undeniable, and yet this
Administration has failed to provide a comprehensive refugee solution for those
seeking international refugee protection. According to data shared by DHS, 85%
of Central American families in detention have established threshold eligibility
for refugee protection.  Rather than preserving our commitment to refugee
protection, your Administration continues to pursue policies that treat Central
American refugees as an immigration enforcement matter.



 Thus far, your Administration has responded to the Central American refugee
crisis with an emphasis on deterrence rather than the need for a regional
refugee solution.  Your Administration has used family detention, Spanish
language communication campaigns in Central America urging people not to come to
the United States, and financial assistance to Mexico to deter, arrest, and
return those fleeing violence. This strategy has proven to be ineffective, as
mothers and children continue to arrive at our Southwest border seeking refugee
protection. Desperate Central American mothers and children will continue to
flee to the United States and seek protection, regardless of the deterrent
actions taken by this Administration.



 The recent operation to apprehend and remove families - several of whom
reported inadequate legal representation - is the latest failure in this
enforcement strategy.  The fact that several of these families were subsequently
granted emergency stays of removal indicates that the system has failed these
refugees, notwithstanding final administrative removal orders.  A final
administrative removal order does not necessarily mean that these mothers and
children do not have legitimate claims for refugee protection.  We are gravely
concerned that DHS may have already removed mothers and children from the United
States and returned them to violent and dangerous situations in their home
countries.



 The crisis in our hemisphere will only be resolved when the United States
engages in a comprehensive, regional solution to this refugee crisis.  This
solution should include refugee screening and resettlement, the use of safe
havens in appropriate third countries, Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for
those individuals in the United States, the use of priority refugee processing,
and other humanitarian remedies.  It is critical that this approach include
cooperation with other countries in the Western Hemisphere.  The violence in the
Northern Triangle of Central America and the resulting refugee flow affects our
entire region, and the United States' solution should include a regional refugee
resettlement program as well as increased capacity building of asylum systems in
neighboring countries.



 This comprehensive approach should also include collaboration with
non-governmental organizations with expertise in international refugee
protection such as the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees (UNHCR).  Organizations such as UNHCR can assist the United States and
our regional partners in screening refugees and can provide critical guidance
regarding the best practices for refugee care and management.



 The goal of this comprehensive refugee approach should be to ensure that
Central American refugees, particularly mothers and children, are able to live
free from an endless cycle of violence and persecution. It is time to start
working towards a solution that provides a practical and humane response to the
mothers and children from Central America fleeing for their lives and seeking
safety and protection.  Failure to provide this comprehensive solution will
continue to lead to disorder at our border and will further a sense of unease
across the United States.



 We urge you to immediately halt the current enforcement actions towards Central
American mothers and children and take steps to engage in a comprehensive effort
with our hemispheric partners to address this regional refugee crisis in an
appropriate humanitarian manner.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              307 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 18, 2016 Monday

Obama, Power Extol American Leadership and Values. Refugees Need Action.

LENGTH: 830  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 New York City: International Human Rights Organization has issued the following
news release:



 In his final State of the Union address President Obama focused on the
importance of American leadership, both what it has accomplished and where it
must improve. "When it comes to every important international issue, people of
the world don't look to Beijing or Moscow to lead--they call us," he said.
According to the President, American leadership in the 21st century is about
"rallying the world behind causes that are right."





 U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Samantha Power echoed Obama's call at
Seton Hall University in New Jersey. Power said that the world "constantly looks
to the United States to lead" and "many believe little will happen if the United
States does not act." The ambassador declared that the United States' "greatest
strength is in our values" and that inflammatory political rhetoric will
"compromise and undermine those values."



 Power specifically addressed an issue notably absent from Obama's speech--
refugee resettlement. She reminded the crowd of the atrocities taking place in
Syria, including gassings, barrel bombs, and violent extremists selling women in
the street. She disparaged the idea that some politicians could "call to turn
away people fleeing these horrors." Power pressed that those who say "keeping
'others' out is the only way to keep us secure misunderstand who we are and what
makes us strong. Compromising our core values never makes the U.S. safer."



 Several Iraqi, Syrian, and Pakistani refugee families attended the event, and
Power told their tragic stories of danger and escape, and how they eventually
found safety and freedom in the United States. She asked the audience, "Does
anyone of us want to live in a country where we turn away a family like this?"
To widespread applause, she addressed the families: "America welcomes you, our
families welcome your families ... These families are part of the fabric of
American life."



 America needs leadership that embodies our core values. Obama and Power's
attention to that fact is a welcomed call for progress. Yet the administration's
eloquent rhetoric must do more than counterbalance the harmful speech against
refugees. The administration must also act.



 Unfortunately, Obama's actions towards refugees, thus far, have not embodied
the American leadership he and Ambassador Power extolled. Despite facing the
largest refugee crisis since World War II, the United States has only agreed to
resettle 10,000 Syrian refugees--a mere fraction of the more than four million
Syrian refugees forced to flee the horrors in their home countries. And Congress
is considering legislation, the so-called SAFE Act, which would make it nearly
impossible for the administration to even reach this modest goal.



 The United States has historically been the undisputed leader in resettling
refugees in times of global crisis. Right now it's falling short. If Obama and
Power's call for American leadership is to be realized in the global refugee
crisis, the United States must welcome significantly more Syrian refugees.



 Another refugee crisis deserves U.S. attention at home. As Obama and Power
spoke in support of American ideals and leadership, thousands of families across
the country remain terrified of deportation raids targeting Central American
families fleeing violence.



 When pressed, Power agreed that all Central American migrants should have a
meaningful opportunity to have their case heard and receive protection if they
are refugees. But she did not address how her call for sympathy for families
fleeing violence in the Middle East could be squared with the administration's
recent actions toward Central American families.



 Earlier this week over 100 House Democrats condemned the administration's move
to deport refugee mothers and children from Central America. The lawmakers
highlighted that these actions are not in line with American values. "You and
your Administration have upheld time-honored American values by offering refuge
to those fleeing violence and disorder in the Middle East, Africa and Asia. We
commend you for that," they wrote. "However, these same fundamental American
values have not been applied in your Administration's policies towards Central
American refugee mothers and children."



 Near the end of his State of the Union address Obama declared, "Our collective
futures depend on your willingness to uphold your duties as a citizen... to
stand up for others, especially the weak, especially the vulnerable, knowing
that each of us is only here because somebody somewhere stood up for us."



 Refugees from Syria to Central America, with nowhere to turn, need us to stand
up for them. That means safe, fair, and robust asylum procedures and
resettlement commitments. That's what American ideals in action would look like.




 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolution.com

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              308 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 5, 2016 Tuesday

Washington: Refugee Resettlement In The United States

LENGTH: 637  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: U.S Department of Defense has issued the following news release:



 The U.S. Refugee Admissions Program embodies the United States' values of
compassion, generosity, and leadership in serving vulnerable populations. The
United States has welcomed more than three million refugees since 1975, helping
them build new lives in all 50 states.



 Identifying Refugees



 Refugees survive terrible ordeals: torture, upheaval, perilous journeys, and
tremendous loss. They are persecuted because of their race, religion,
nationality, political opinion, or membership in a particular social group. The
vast majority of the nearly 20 million refugees in the world today will receive
support in the country to which they fled. A small number, particularly the most
vulnerable, will be resettled in a third country, such as the United States.

 What is Resettlement?



 Resettlement is the selection and transfer of refugees from a country in which
they have sought protection to a third country. This differs from the asylum
process, whereby individuals who have reached the United States are granted
protection. Resettlement can take 18-24 months or longer from referral to
arrival in the United States.

 Who Do We Resettle?



 The United States will admit 85,000 refugees from around the world in Fiscal
Year 2016:



     Roughly 34,000 will come from the Near East and South Asia (of which at
least 10,000 will be from Syria);

     25,000 from Africa;

     13,000 from East Asia;

     4,000 from Europe;

     3,000 from Latin America and the Caribbean; and

     An unallocated reserve of 6,000 will provide the flexibility needed to
respond to emergent situations.



 Where Do Refugees Come From?



 Date: 10/21/2015 Description: Bar chart showing number of refugee arrivals by
processing region for FY2006 - FY2015. - State Dept Image

 Entering the U.S. Resettlement System



 Refugees are usually referred to the United States for resettlement by the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Under the guidance of the U.S.
Department of State's Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, nine
Resettlement Support Centers (RSC) prepare refugee applications for U.S.
resettlement consideration. The RSCs collect biographic and other information
from the applicants to prepare for the adjudication interview and for security
screening.

 Refugee Screening Process



 Enhanced security screening is a joint responsibility of the Department of
State and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and includes the
participation of the National Counterterrorism Center and the Department of
Defense.



 Within DHS, the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) reviews each
application and conducts an in-person interview with each applicant.
USCIS-approved refugees also undergo a health screening to prevent those with a
contagious disease from entering the country. The RSC then requests a
"sponsorship assurance" from a U.S.-based resettlement agency that is
experienced in providing assistance to newly arrived refugees. Finally, the
International Organization for Migration facilitates transportation to the
United States. Most refugees also undergo a brief cultural orientation course
prior to departure for the United States.

 Starting a New Life



 Once in the U.S., refugees seize the chance for a new beginning. With the
assistance of more than 300 local resettlement agencies, refugees put down
roots, attend school, get jobs, pay taxes and become productive members of their
communities. They start businesses and make our communities more vibrant and
diverse. Refugees share many of America's values: courage, resilience, openness
to new experiences, and the determination to rebuild their lives in a new land.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              309 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           December 29, 2015 Tuesday

New Maxico: Unique course turns students into advocates for Albuquerque refugee
families

LENGTH: 1071  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Santa Fe: New Mexico State university has issued the following news release:



 Jessica Goodkind, associate professor of Sociology at the University of New
Mexico, specializes in change. Her nine credit hour, two semester course begins
each fall teaching undergraduate students what refugees are, and what kind of
world conditions caused them to leave their homes and seek a new life in
Albuquerque, New Mexico.





 In November students are matched with refugee families. The students are
assigned to help teach members of the family English, and to learn from the
refugee families about their lives, cultures and experiences. And Goodkind says,
they are assigned to be advocates for the families and the refugees try to
figure out life in the United States.



 Goodkind believes UNM's program is unique. Other universities have worked with
refugees, but not with such an in-depth relationship building experience that
focuses on mutual learning among students and refugees, building on refugees'
strengths, and improving the community's responsiveness to refugees.



 Excerpts from interviews with former students Goodkind shared reflect the
change students see in themselves.



     In the beginning, I had no idea what a refugee was... After learning about
them, I know now that they don't just flee because they want to, but they're
forced to flee, whether that's because of political conflict or other things of
that nature... after working with them, I don't really consider them refugees
because I feel like that term makes people feel sorry for them more when they're
probably some of the most hardworking people I've ever met. They're more
dedicated than I am. I mean they're always pushing me to get things done rather
than the opposite way around. So I think it's just opened my eyes to what it
really means to be a refugee.



     Taking this class has shown me that not everybody has the opportunities
that I have so when I hear another person's story, I can't be so quick to say,
"Why are these people like that?" I can easily stop and think, take into
consideration things such as colonialism, class, gender, things like that.



     I learned that we take a lot for granted. That being born in America
entitles you to so much ... If you're coming from outside of the country you've
got... so much to do to just be able to begin to adapt to life here, and so . .
. I've learned to see more often the privileges that we have.



 In weekly learning circles the students and families get together at local
community centers, bring food and talk about everything.



 Lucas Winter, a Communications and Journalism major who is taking the class
this year said, "This program offers me the opportunity for a tremendous amount
of growth. As a student I was looking for a way to serve the community, better
myself and develop professional skills. That's why I decided to before a part of
the advocacy," he said.



 He shot and produced a video about his experience.



 The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees estimates the total number of
refugees in the world today at 50 million. Albuquerque normally accepts several
hundred refugees each year. The refugees are brought to the city by a private
groups that work to assist them as they try to adjust to life in the United
States.



 Goodkind started the Refugee Well-Being Project in 2006. Since then UNM
students have been learning about and working with refugee families. She has a
grant from the National Institutes of Health that allows her to study the impact
of the program. This academic year she is working with 28 students in her
course, and 80 refugee adults and their children from Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria
and the Great Lakes Region of Africa including Burundi, Democratic Republic of
Congo and Rwanda.



 Goodkind says she is thrilled with the way her course has affected the
students. Some have gone on to work in the Peace Corps. Others have elected to
do social work in the community. Working with the students has had an effect for
the refugee families as well. Goodkind shared comments from some individuals.



     "When I was leaving Africa some of our friends were like, 'Well, you're
going to a foreign country, you're going to live in your house, nobody is going
to come say hello' ...As refugees, we receive so much food, and clothing, and
shoes, but then would these white people, are they going to accept food and
water from us?  And so you guys came in and you were eating with us and hanging
out with us and we were completely in shock and we were so amazed that a whole
group of white people would come to our house, and our friends find it difficult
to believe that such a thing happened. A lot of people are really shocked that
this has happened. So our friends are asking, 'So the American people, do they
really come up and say hello to you, do they greet you and hang out with you?'
And we say, 'Oh yeah, they do! And they're our friends, and we hang out,' and
they're like, 'Well then America is a good country.'" (Burundian woman)



     "For a long time in my life, I lived like a refugee. This project is really
good in terms of helping me with mental health. If I was just by myself, with
just the family, I would be thinking about the terrible things that happened in
the past. But when I come from work and get to meet with him [student partner]
and the other people, I am really engaged in the present, and I don't dwell on
the horrible things that happened in the past."   (Burundian man)



     "Definitely we learn a lot during this program.  We learn about the U.S.
cultures and traditions and believe they learned the same things about our
culture.  I believe we can say that this program helped us to build trust all
together. We feel we are much, much more comfortable now when they approach us
and we feel we are no longer lost."  (Iraqi woman)



 This spring the students will help their assigned families assess the job
skills they have, and assist them as they apply for work or begin to learn
English. The refugees will learn about American culture, and how to become part
of the local community. Everyone will have the opportunity to change the way
they think about people who live in Albuquerque.



 Goodkind has written extensively about the refugee well-being project and her
work in academic journals. Here is a selection of her papers.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusme

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              310 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           December 29, 2015 Tuesday

New Maxico: Unique course turns students into advocates for Albuquerque refugee
families

LENGTH: 1071  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Santa Fe: New Mexico State university has issued the following news release:



 Jessica Goodkind, associate professor of Sociology at the University of New
Mexico, specializes in change. Her nine credit hour, two semester course begins
each fall teaching undergraduate students what refugees are, and what kind of
world conditions caused them to leave their homes and seek a new life in
Albuquerque, New Mexico.





 In November students are matched with refugee families. The students are
assigned to help teach members of the family English, and to learn from the
refugee families about their lives, cultures and experiences. And Goodkind says,
they are assigned to be advocates for the families and the refugees try to
figure out life in the United States.



 Goodkind believes UNM's program is unique. Other universities have worked with
refugees, but not with such an in-depth relationship building experience that
focuses on mutual learning among students and refugees, building on refugees'
strengths, and improving the community's responsiveness to refugees.



 Excerpts from interviews with former students Goodkind shared reflect the
change students see in themselves.



     In the beginning, I had no idea what a refugee was... After learning about
them, I know now that they don't just flee because they want to, but they're
forced to flee, whether that's because of political conflict or other things of
that nature... after working with them, I don't really consider them refugees
because I feel like that term makes people feel sorry for them more when they're
probably some of the most hardworking people I've ever met. They're more
dedicated than I am. I mean they're always pushing me to get things done rather
than the opposite way around. So I think it's just opened my eyes to what it
really means to be a refugee.



     Taking this class has shown me that not everybody has the opportunities
that I have so when I hear another person's story, I can't be so quick to say,
"Why are these people like that?" I can easily stop and think, take into
consideration things such as colonialism, class, gender, things like that.



     I learned that we take a lot for granted. That being born in America
entitles you to so much ... If you're coming from outside of the country you've
got... so much to do to just be able to begin to adapt to life here, and so . .
. I've learned to see more often the privileges that we have.



 In weekly learning circles the students and families get together at local
community centers, bring food and talk about everything.



 Lucas Winter, a Communications and Journalism major who is taking the class
this year said, "This program offers me the opportunity for a tremendous amount
of growth. As a student I was looking for a way to serve the community, better
myself and develop professional skills. That's why I decided to before a part of
the advocacy," he said.



 He shot and produced a video about his experience.



 The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees estimates the total number of
refugees in the world today at 50 million. Albuquerque normally accepts several
hundred refugees each year. The refugees are brought to the city by a private
groups that work to assist them as they try to adjust to life in the United
States.



 Goodkind started the Refugee Well-Being Project in 2006. Since then UNM
students have been learning about and working with refugee families. She has a
grant from the National Institutes of Health that allows her to study the impact
of the program. This academic year she is working with 28 students in her
course, and 80 refugee adults and their children from Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria
and the Great Lakes Region of Africa including Burundi, Democratic Republic of
Congo and Rwanda.



 Goodkind says she is thrilled with the way her course has affected the
students. Some have gone on to work in the Peace Corps. Others have elected to
do social work in the community. Working with the students has had an effect for
the refugee families as well. Goodkind shared comments from some individuals.



     "When I was leaving Africa some of our friends were like, 'Well, you're
going to a foreign country, you're going to live in your house, nobody is going
to come say hello' ...As refugees, we receive so much food, and clothing, and
shoes, but then would these white people, are they going to accept food and
water from us?  And so you guys came in and you were eating with us and hanging
out with us and we were completely in shock and we were so amazed that a whole
group of white people would come to our house, and our friends find it difficult
to believe that such a thing happened. A lot of people are really shocked that
this has happened. So our friends are asking, 'So the American people, do they
really come up and say hello to you, do they greet you and hang out with you?'
And we say, 'Oh yeah, they do! And they're our friends, and we hang out,' and
they're like, 'Well then America is a good country.'" (Burundian woman)



     "For a long time in my life, I lived like a refugee. This project is really
good in terms of helping me with mental health. If I was just by myself, with
just the family, I would be thinking about the terrible things that happened in
the past. But when I come from work and get to meet with him [student partner]
and the other people, I am really engaged in the present, and I don't dwell on
the horrible things that happened in the past."   (Burundian man)



     "Definitely we learn a lot during this program.  We learn about the U.S.
cultures and traditions and believe they learned the same things about our
culture.  I believe we can say that this program helped us to build trust all
together. We feel we are much, much more comfortable now when they approach us
and we feel we are no longer lost."  (Iraqi woman)



 This spring the students will help their assigned families assess the job
skills they have, and assist them as they apply for work or begin to learn
English. The refugees will learn about American culture, and how to become part
of the local community. Everyone will have the opportunity to change the way
they think about people who live in Albuquerque.



 Goodkind has written extensively about the refugee well-being project and her
work in academic journals. Here is a selection of her papers.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusme

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          December 23, 2015 Wednesday

New Mexico: Unique course turns students into advocates for Albuquerque refugee
families

LENGTH: 1071  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Santa Fe: University of New Mexico University, The State of New Mexico has
issued the following news release:



 Jessica Goodkind, associate professor of Sociology at the University of New
Mexico, specializes in change. Her nine credit hour, two semester course begins
each fall teaching undergraduate students what refugees are, and what kind of
world conditions caused them to leave their homes and seek a new life in
Albuquerque, New Mexico.





 In November students are matched with refugee families. The students are
assigned to help teach members of the family English, and to learn from the
refugee families about their lives, cultures and experiences. And Goodkind says,
they are assigned to be advocates for the families and the refugees try to
figure out life in the United States.



 Goodkind believes UNM's program is unique. Other universities have worked with
refugees, but not with such an in-depth relationship building experience that
focuses on mutual learning among students and refugees, building on refugees'
strengths, and improving the community's responsiveness to refugees.



 Excerpts from interviews with former students Goodkind shared reflect the
change students see in themselves.



     In the beginning, I had no idea what a refugee was... After learning about
them, I know now that they don't just flee because they want to, but they're
forced to flee, whether that's because of political conflict or other things of
that nature... after working with them, I don't really consider them refugees
because I feel like that term makes people feel sorry for them more when they're
probably some of the most hardworking people I've ever met. They're more
dedicated than I am. I mean they're always pushing me to get things done rather
than the opposite way around. So I think it's just opened my eyes to what it
really means to be a refugee.



     Taking this class has shown me that not everybody has the opportunities
that I have so when I hear another person's story, I can't be so quick to say,
"Why are these people like that?" I can easily stop and think, take into
consideration things such as colonialism, class, gender, things like that.



     I learned that we take a lot for granted. That being born in America
entitles you to so much ... If you're coming from outside of the country you've
got... so much to do to just be able to begin to adapt to life here, and so . .
. I've learned to see more often the privileges that we have.



 In weekly learning circles the students and families get together at local
community centers, bring food and talk about everything.



 Lucas Winter, a Communications and Journalism major who is taking the class
this year said, "This program offers me the opportunity for a tremendous amount
of growth. As a student I was looking for a way to serve the community, better
myself and develop professional skills. That's why I decided to before a part of
the advocacy," he said.
 The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees estimates the total number of
refugees in the world today at 50 million. Albuquerque normally accepts several
hundred refugees each year. The refugees are brought to the city by a private
groups that work to assist them as they try to adjust to life in the United
States.



 Goodkind started the Refugee Well-Being Project in 2006. Since then UNM
students have been learning about and working with refugee families. She has a
grant from the National Institutes of Health that allows her to study the impact
of the program. This academic year she is working with 28 students in her
course, and 80 refugee adults and their children from Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria
and the Great Lakes Region of Africa including Burundi, Democratic Republic of
Congo and Rwanda.



 Goodkind says she is thrilled with the way her course has affected the
students. Some have gone on to work in the Peace Corps. Others have elected to
do social work in the community. Working with the students has had an effect for
the refugee families as well. Goodkind shared comments from some individuals.



     "When I was leaving Africa some of our friends were like, 'Well, you're
going to a foreign country, you're going to live in your house, nobody is going
to come say hello' ...As refugees, we receive so much food, and clothing, and
shoes, but then would these white people, are they going to accept food and
water from us?  And so you guys came in and you were eating with us and hanging
out with us and we were completely in shock and we were so amazed that a whole
group of white people would come to our house, and our friends find it difficult
to believe that such a thing happened. A lot of people are really shocked that
this has happened. So our friends are asking, 'So the American people, do they
really come up and say hello to you, do they greet you and hang out with you?'
And we say, 'Oh yeah, they do! And they're our friends, and we hang out,' and
they're like, 'Well then America is a good country.'" (Burundian woman)



     "For a long time in my life, I lived like a refugee. This project is really
good in terms of helping me with mental health. If I was just by myself, with
just the family, I would be thinking about the terrible things that happened in
the past. But when I come from work and get to meet with him [student partner]
and the other people, I am really engaged in the present, and I don't dwell on
the horrible things that happened in the past."   (Burundian man)



     "Definitely we learn a lot during this program.  We learn about the U.S.
cultures and traditions and believe they learned the same things about our
culture.  I believe we can say that this program helped us to build trust all
together. We feel we are much, much more comfortable now when they approach us
and we feel we are no longer lost."  (Iraqi woman)



 This spring the students will help their assigned families assess the job
skills they have, and assist them as they apply for work or begin to learn
English. The refugees will learn about American culture, and how to become part
of the local community. Everyone will have the opportunity to change the way
they think about people who live in Albuquerque.



 Goodkind has written extensively about the refugee well-being project and her
work in academic journals. Here is a selection of her papers.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com





LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              312 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           December 22, 2015 Tuesday

New Mexico: Unique course turns students into advocates for Albuquerque refugee
families

LENGTH: 1071  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Santa Fe: New Mexico State university has issued the following news release:



 Jessica Goodkind, associate professor of Sociology at the University of New
Mexico, specializes in change. Her nine credit hour, two semester course begins
each fall teaching undergraduate students what refugees are, and what kind of
world conditions caused them to leave their homes and seek a new life in
Albuquerque, New Mexico.





 In November students are matched with refugee families. The students are
assigned to help teach members of the family English, and to learn from the
refugee families about their lives, cultures and experiences. And Goodkind says,
they are assigned to be advocates for the families and the refugees try to
figure out life in the United States.



 Goodkind believes UNM's program is unique. Other universities have worked with
refugees, but not with such an in-depth relationship building experience that
focuses on mutual learning among students and refugees, building on refugees'
strengths, and improving the community's responsiveness to refugees.



 Excerpts from interviews with former students Goodkind shared reflect the
change students see in themselves.



     In the beginning, I had no idea what a refugee was... After learning about
them, I know now that they don't just flee because they want to, but they're
forced to flee, whether that's because of political conflict or other things of
that nature... after working with them, I don't really consider them refugees
because I feel like that term makes people feel sorry for them more when they're
probably some of the most hardworking people I've ever met. They're more
dedicated than I am. I mean they're always pushing me to get things done rather
than the opposite way around. So I think it's just opened my eyes to what it
really means to be a refugee.



     Taking this class has shown me that not everybody has the opportunities
that I have so when I hear another person's story, I can't be so quick to say,
"Why are these people like that?" I can easily stop and think, take into
consideration things such as colonialism, class, gender, things like that.



     I learned that we take a lot for granted. That being born in America
entitles you to so much ... If you're coming from outside of the country you've
got... so much to do to just be able to begin to adapt to life here, and so . .
. I've learned to see more often the privileges that we have.



 In weekly learning circles the students and families get together at local
community centers, bring food and talk about everything.



 Lucas Winter, a Communications and Journalism major who is taking the class
this year said, "This program offers me the opportunity for a tremendous amount
of growth. As a student I was looking for a way to serve the community, better
myself and develop professional skills. That's why I decided to before a part of
the advocacy," he said.



 He shot and produced a video about his experience.



 The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees estimates the total number of
refugees in the world today at 50 million. Albuquerque normally accepts several
hundred refugees each year. The refugees are brought to the city by a private
groups that work to assist them as they try to adjust to life in the United
States.



 Goodkind started the Refugee Well-Being Project in 2006. Since then UNM
students have been learning about and working with refugee families. She has a
grant from the National Institutes of Health that allows her to study the impact
of the program. This academic year she is working with 28 students in her
course, and 80 refugee adults and their children from Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria
and the Great Lakes Region of Africa including Burundi, Democratic Republic of
Congo and Rwanda.



 Goodkind says she is thrilled with the way her course has affected the
students. Some have gone on to work in the Peace Corps. Others have elected to
do social work in the community. Working with the students has had an effect for
the refugee families as well. Goodkind shared comments from some individuals.



     "When I was leaving Africa some of our friends were like, 'Well, you're
going to a foreign country, you're going to live in your house, nobody is going
to come say hello' ...As refugees, we receive so much food, and clothing, and
shoes, but then would these white people, are they going to accept food and
water from us?  And so you guys came in and you were eating with us and hanging
out with us and we were completely in shock and we were so amazed that a whole
group of white people would come to our house, and our friends find it difficult
to believe that such a thing happened. A lot of people are really shocked that
this has happened. So our friends are asking, 'So the American people, do they
really come up and say hello to you, do they greet you and hang out with you?'
And we say, 'Oh yeah, they do! And they're our friends, and we hang out,' and
they're like, 'Well then America is a good country.'" (Burundian woman)



     "For a long time in my life, I lived like a refugee. This project is really
good in terms of helping me with mental health. If I was just by myself, with
just the family, I would be thinking about the terrible things that happened in
the past. But when I come from work and get to meet with him [student partner]
and the other people, I am really engaged in the present, and I don't dwell on
the horrible things that happened in the past."   (Burundian man)



     "Definitely we learn a lot during this program.  We learn about the U.S.
cultures and traditions and believe they learned the same things about our
culture.  I believe we can say that this program helped us to build trust all
together. We feel we are much, much more comfortable now when they approach us
and we feel we are no longer lost."  (Iraqi woman)



 This spring the students will help their assigned families assess the job
skills they have, and assist them as they apply for work or begin to learn
English. The refugees will learn about American culture, and how to become part
of the local community. Everyone will have the opportunity to change the way
they think about people who live in Albuquerque.



 Goodkind has written extensively about the refugee well-being project and her
work in academic journals. Here is a selection of her papers.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusme

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              313 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                            December 21, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Kids put notes in my pockets saying, 'can you help us'. My own kids know how
lucky they are;
BECKHAM ON HIS GLOBAL MISSION FOR CHARITY Hero's emotional trip to seven
continents

BYLINE: MARK JEFFERIES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14,15

LENGTH: 1083 words


Whenever David Beckham returns from a charity mission to a deprived part of the
world, he sits down with his four children and tells them all about it.

And now the former England football captain has revealed Brooklyn, 16, Romeo,
13, Cruz, 10, and Harper, four, will one day accompany him on these eye-opening
trips.

Beckham was speaking after returning from a globe-trotting trip, promoting the
work of Unicef around the world by playing football matches on seven continents.

He says: "Every time I go on a field trip I sit down with them after and discuss
every single detail.

"My kids have been asking to come with me on these trips for years. At some
point they will.

"Obviously their priority is their schooling but they are interested in these
trips. My children already understand how lucky they are to have the life they
have."

The journey, which will feature in BBC documentary For the Love of the Game next
week, took in villages in Papua New Guinea; earthquake-hit Nepal; the streets of
Buenos Aires; a refugee camp in Djibouti, Africa; Miami, Florida; and the first
official football game in Antarctica.

It then climaxes with an all-star fundraising match at Old Trafford when Becks
played alongside his oldest son Brooklyn.

The poverty and suffering in Africa and Asia are what affect the football star
the most.

He says he found it especially heart-breaking to leave children behind in
makeshift homes, especially after they stuffed notes in his pocket begging him
for help.

Reflecting on what he saw at the refugee camp in Djibouti, Beckham says: "Once
you leave their towns and villages, I always think I am so lucky to be going on
to something where my children have fresh water, my children have great food to
eat. Whereas I have just been in a refugee camp where there is no fresh water."

He adds: "They are living on virtually nothing and it is always difficult to
see. I wouldn't say you feel helpless because there are so many people doing
great work around the world to help, but it is always tough.

"For instance while I was in Djibouti and playing football with these kids,
after when we are taking pictures they are all putting notes in my pockets. One
of the letters I read on screen but there were six or seven letters in my pocket
just saying, 'Can you help us?' And, 'Can you do what you can to help our
situation?'

"It is always difficult going into these situations." While in Nepal, Beckham,
40, saw a school damaged by the massive earthquake in April.

A pupil told how his home had been flattened and showed the family now living in
poor, cramped conditions, with little fuel to cook with.

"Where six months ago they were living in nicer environments, now they are
living in tents with four beds in a smB small tent," says Beckham.

"They are having to live there, cook there. It is a difficult environment to go
to.

"We saw first hand the devastation caused by the earthquake. To play with
children who lived through that and see them smile was inspirational.

"Being a parent, being a father, to see the happiness of the children really is
incredible.

"Thirty-four thousand classrooms had been destroyed by the earthquake. But the
fact that Unicef and other charities got in there quickly and could bring the
children back a bit of normality brought a lot of happiness to the families.

"We met so many incredible people everywhere we went.

"The first three locations we travelled to were all places where charities and
organisations like Unicef are working to help families and children.

"We wanted to show how football reached some people in the most neglected and
remote parts of the world. That's the heart of the story."

He added it was hard to help individual children despite feeling attached to
them. But he said he was sure Unicef was looking after them.

And looking to the future, he said: "My involvement in Unicef is something I'm
more passionate about now than I've ever been. I've got a lot more time to do a
lot more things."

He also reveals in the documentary that his wife Victoria does not really want
their daughter Harper to follow in his footsteps by playing footie.

He tells female players in Miami the "challenge" he faces is from his wife, "so
that is a pretty big one".

And he adds: "I think having three boys who do want to play football she wants
to be able to have one of our children who wants to go and do stuff with her
like ballet or tap or at the moment Harper plays tennis.

"Victoria would be happy with whatever any of the kids go into. Even if Harper
does go and play football she will support her. But Victoria has had 16 years of
sitting on cold Sunday morning sidelines watching the boys. She would like to
sit indoors and watch Harper play tennis or ballet or tap."

Asked why Victoria doesn't feature in the programme, Beckham says they keep much
of their working lives separate.

He adds: "We have our own things we focus on and things we do individually and
together. I wouldn't walk into her studio and try to tell her how to make a
dress - it might be interesting if I did."

He also says he is gearing up for an important job in the family kitchen. "The
next adventure is Christmas. Of course I cook the turkey." There are other
things that Becks is cooking up.

He hopes to start his own football club in Miami. During the show he hints that
he could live there for the majority of the time until at least 2025.

Beckham says: "Miami is a place I know really well. I am going to set my own
football club up in this city. I will be spending a lot of time in Miami in the
next 10, 20 years and hopefully enjoy seeing a team I own being successful."

Asked about what else he will do, he says: "Being a father and a husband, and y
g trying to be the best at that. For me being a father and being a father that
is present is more important than anything."

Turning back to sport he believes the scandals engulfing football's governing
body Fifa will be overcome.

He says: "No matter what corruption is going on at the highest level it will
never be as big as the game itself."

Beckham also says he hopes "the power of the game" will change World Cup hosts
Qatar and Russia when it comes to views on homosexuality.

"Everyone has their own views on certain things, whether it is right or wrong.
And there are certain people that have beliefs that no one else believes in.

"But like this documentary says the power of the game is so huge it could change
people's perceptions."

David Beckham: For the Love of the Game, BBC1 on December 29 at 9pm.

mark.jefferies@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DJIBOUTI, AFRICA Beckham holding hands with young lad in refugee
campWith Cruz, Harper and Romeo before match OLD TRAFFORD, MANCHESTERMIAMI,
NORTH AMERICA Talks to university teamANTARCTICA Breaking new ground in the
frozen SouthPAPUA NEW GUINEA, AUSTRALASIA Becks with beaming children on first
day of his tripNEPAL, ASIA Meeting schoolchildren and receiving a floral
garlandBUENOS AIRES, SOUTH AMERICA Posing in Argentina's capital

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              314 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                           December 17, 2015 Thursday

@HD New Head 48 light;Obama resolutely defends immigration as America's 'oldest
tradition'

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 526 words


Agence France-Presse

WASHINGTON

@BT New Screen/briefs Text - no indent;

President Barack Obama launched a full-throated defence of open immigration
policies on Tuesday, hailing it as America's "oldest tradition" amid a fierce
election-fuelled row over tighter rules.

Hours before Republican candidates held a security-focused final presidential
debate of the year, Obama told 31 newly naturalised Americans that fair
immigration was the touchstone of their adoptive country.

"Just about every nation in the world, to some extent, accepts immigrants,"
Obama said. "But there is something unique about America."

Obama, speaking in the National Archives rotunda, flanked by the US
Constitution, Bill of Rights and Declaration of Independence, said America does
not "simply welcome" new arrivals.

"We are born of immigrants, that is who we are, immigration is our origin story.
For more than two centuries it's remained at the core of our national character,
it's our oldest tradition, it's who we are, it's part of what makes us
exceptional."

The campaign to succeed Obama has been marked by tough talk against migrants,
not least from Republican frontrunner Donald Trump.

The real-estate mogul-turned-politician has vowed to ban Muslims from entering
the country and to deport illegal migrants from Latin America.

The debate has taken on a rougher edge in the wake of the terror attacks in
Paris and California.

The shooting in San Bernardino that killed 14 Americans was carried out by
US-born Syed Farook and his Pakistani wife Tashfeen Malik, who arrived in the
United States on a fiancà¹[0/00]e visa.

The White House has agreed to look again at some visa procedures, but insists
that refugees in particular are well vetted and have not proven a threat.

Obama, who himself has lived outside the United States and is the son of a
migrant father from Kenya and a mother who lived in Indonesia, has bristled at
efforts to curb the flow of migrants.

"In the Mexican immigrant today, we see the Catholic immigrant of a century
ago," he said. "In the Syrian seeking refuge today, we should see the Jewish
refugee of World War II."

Listing instances of past discrimination against Japanese, Irish and Italian
immigrants, Obama said, "on days like today, we need to resolve to never repeat
mistakes like that again".

Officials describing Obama's approach point to parallels between today's boiling
immigration debate and the 2014 Ebola outbreak in West Africa.

Then, politicians had clamoured to demand a ban on travellers coming from
affected areas, while Obama resisted.

"He doesn't give in to the hysteria of the moment," insisted one senior
administration official.

That, Obama's allies say, contrasts with Republicans who voted for an increase
in refugee admissions after Syrian toddler Aylan al-Kurdi washed up on a Turkish
beach, only to reverse course after the Paris attacks.

But with the 2016 election around the corner, Democrats also spot a political
opportunity to paint Republicans as anti-immigrant.

With the United States demographically shifting to become less white,
Republicans can scarcely risk further alienating minority voters, who currently
vote Democrat in droves.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              315 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                           December 17, 2015 Thursday

@HD New Head 48 light;Obama resolutely defends immigration as America's 'oldest
tradition'

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 526 words


Agence France-Presse

WASHINGTON

@BT New Screen/briefs Text - no indent;

President Barack Obama launched a full-throated defence of open immigration
policies on Tuesday, hailing it as America's "oldest tradition" amid a fierce
election-fuelled row over tighter rules.

Hours before Republican candidates held a security-focused final presidential
debate of the year, Obama told 31 newly naturalised Americans that fair
immigration was the touchstone of their adoptive country.

"Just about every nation in the world, to some extent, accepts immigrants,"
Obama said. "But there is something unique about America."

Obama, speaking in the National Archives rotunda, flanked by the US
Constitution, Bill of Rights and Declaration of Independence, said America does
not "simply welcome" new arrivals.

"We are born of immigrants, that is who we are, immigration is our origin story.
For more than two centuries it's remained at the core of our national character,
it's our oldest tradition, it's who we are, it's part of what makes us
exceptional."

The campaign to succeed Obama has been marked by tough talk against migrants,
not least from Republican frontrunner Donald Trump.

The real-estate mogul-turned-politician has vowed to ban Muslims from entering
the country and to deport illegal migrants from Latin America.

The debate has taken on a rougher edge in the wake of the terror attacks in
Paris and California.

The shooting in San Bernardino that killed 14 Americans was carried out by
US-born Syed Farook and his Pakistani wife Tashfeen Malik, who arrived in the
United States on a fiancà¹[0/00]e visa.

The White House has agreed to look again at some visa procedures, but insists
that refugees in particular are well vetted and have not proven a threat.

Obama, who himself has lived outside the United States and is the son of a
migrant father from Kenya and a mother who lived in Indonesia, has bristled at
efforts to curb the flow of migrants.

"In the Mexican immigrant today, we see the Catholic immigrant of a century
ago," he said. "In the Syrian seeking refuge today, we should see the Jewish
refugee of World War II."

Listing instances of past discrimination against Japanese, Irish and Italian
immigrants, Obama said, "on days like today, we need to resolve to never repeat
mistakes like that again".

Officials describing Obama's approach point to parallels between today's boiling
immigration debate and the 2014 Ebola outbreak in West Africa.

Then, politicians had clamoured to demand a ban on travellers coming from
affected areas, while Obama resisted.

"He doesn't give in to the hysteria of the moment," insisted one senior
administration official.

That, Obama's allies say, contrasts with Republicans who voted for an increase
in refugee admissions after Syrian toddler Aylan al-Kurdi washed up on a Turkish
beach, only to reverse course after the Paris attacks.

But with the 2016 election around the corner, Democrats also spot a political
opportunity to paint Republicans as anti-immigrant.

With the United States demographically shifting to become less white,
Republicans can scarcely risk further alienating minority voters, who currently
vote Democrat in droves.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              316 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                           December 17, 2015 Thursday

@HD New Head 48 light;Obama resolutely defends immigration as America's 'oldest
tradition'

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 526 words


Agence France-Presse

WASHINGTON

@BT New Screen/briefs Text - no indent;

President Barack Obama launched a full-throated defence of open immigration
policies on Tuesday, hailing it as America's "oldest tradition" amid a fierce
election-fuelled row over tighter rules.

Hours before Republican candidates held a security-focused final presidential
debate of the year, Obama told 31 newly naturalised Americans that fair
immigration was the touchstone of their adoptive country.

"Just about every nation in the world, to some extent, accepts immigrants,"
Obama said. "But there is something unique about America."

Obama, speaking in the National Archives rotunda, flanked by the US
Constitution, Bill of Rights and Declaration of Independence, said America does
not "simply welcome" new arrivals.

"We are born of immigrants, that is who we are, immigration is our origin story.
For more than two centuries it's remained at the core of our national character,
it's our oldest tradition, it's who we are, it's part of what makes us
exceptional."

The campaign to succeed Obama has been marked by tough talk against migrants,
not least from Republican frontrunner Donald Trump.

The real-estate mogul-turned-politician has vowed to ban Muslims from entering
the country and to deport illegal migrants from Latin America.

The debate has taken on a rougher edge in the wake of the terror attacks in
Paris and California.

The shooting in San Bernardino that killed 14 Americans was carried out by
US-born Syed Farook and his Pakistani wife Tashfeen Malik, who arrived in the
United States on a fiancà¹[0/00]e visa.

The White House has agreed to look again at some visa procedures, but insists
that refugees in particular are well vetted and have not proven a threat.

Obama, who himself has lived outside the United States and is the son of a
migrant father from Kenya and a mother who lived in Indonesia, has bristled at
efforts to curb the flow of migrants.

"In the Mexican immigrant today, we see the Catholic immigrant of a century
ago," he said. "In the Syrian seeking refuge today, we should see the Jewish
refugee of World War II."

Listing instances of past discrimination against Japanese, Irish and Italian
immigrants, Obama said, "on days like today, we need to resolve to never repeat
mistakes like that again".

Officials describing Obama's approach point to parallels between today's boiling
immigration debate and the 2014 Ebola outbreak in West Africa.

Then, politicians had clamoured to demand a ban on travellers coming from
affected areas, while Obama resisted.

"He doesn't give in to the hysteria of the moment," insisted one senior
administration official.

That, Obama's allies say, contrasts with Republicans who voted for an increase
in refugee admissions after Syrian toddler Aylan al-Kurdi washed up on a Turkish
beach, only to reverse course after the Paris attacks.

But with the 2016 election around the corner, Democrats also spot a political
opportunity to paint Republicans as anti-immigrant.

With the United States demographically shifting to become less white,
Republicans can scarcely risk further alienating minority voters, who currently
vote Democrat in droves.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              317 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                           December 17, 2015 Thursday

@HD New Head 48 light;Obama resolutely defends immigration as America's 'oldest
tradition'

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 526 words


Agence France-Presse

WASHINGTON

@BT New Screen/briefs Text - no indent;

President Barack Obama launched a full-throated defence of open immigration
policies on Tuesday, hailing it as America's "oldest tradition" amid a fierce
election-fuelled row over tighter rules.

Hours before Republican candidates held a security-focused final presidential
debate of the year, Obama told 31 newly naturalised Americans that fair
immigration was the touchstone of their adoptive country.

"Just about every nation in the world, to some extent, accepts immigrants,"
Obama said. "But there is something unique about America."

Obama, speaking in the National Archives rotunda, flanked by the US
Constitution, Bill of Rights and Declaration of Independence, said America does
not "simply welcome" new arrivals.

"We are born of immigrants, that is who we are, immigration is our origin story.
For more than two centuries it's remained at the core of our national character,
it's our oldest tradition, it's who we are, it's part of what makes us
exceptional."

The campaign to succeed Obama has been marked by tough talk against migrants,
not least from Republican frontrunner Donald Trump.

The real-estate mogul-turned-politician has vowed to ban Muslims from entering
the country and to deport illegal migrants from Latin America.

The debate has taken on a rougher edge in the wake of the terror attacks in
Paris and California.

The shooting in San Bernardino that killed 14 Americans was carried out by
US-born Syed Farook and his Pakistani wife Tashfeen Malik, who arrived in the
United States on a fiancà¹[0/00]e visa.

The White House has agreed to look again at some visa procedures, but insists
that refugees in particular are well vetted and have not proven a threat.

Obama, who himself has lived outside the United States and is the son of a
migrant father from Kenya and a mother who lived in Indonesia, has bristled at
efforts to curb the flow of migrants.

"In the Mexican immigrant today, we see the Catholic immigrant of a century
ago," he said. "In the Syrian seeking refuge today, we should see the Jewish
refugee of World War II."

Listing instances of past discrimination against Japanese, Irish and Italian
immigrants, Obama said, "on days like today, we need to resolve to never repeat
mistakes like that again".

Officials describing Obama's approach point to parallels between today's boiling
immigration debate and the 2014 Ebola outbreak in West Africa.

Then, politicians had clamoured to demand a ban on travellers coming from
affected areas, while Obama resisted.

"He doesn't give in to the hysteria of the moment," insisted one senior
administration official.

That, Obama's allies say, contrasts with Republicans who voted for an increase
in refugee admissions after Syrian toddler Aylan al-Kurdi washed up on a Turkish
beach, only to reverse course after the Paris attacks.

But with the 2016 election around the corner, Democrats also spot a political
opportunity to paint Republicans as anti-immigrant.

With the United States demographically shifting to become less white,
Republicans can scarcely risk further alienating minority voters, who currently
vote Democrat in droves.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              318 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           December 15, 2015 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CANADA IS NORTH AMERICA'S ROLE MODEL

BYLINE: Tony Norman

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 724 words


I'm a big fan of Canada. Half of my college roommates were Canadians. Before I
married a gal from Pittsburgh, I assumed I would end up with one of the casually
lefty Canadian types I crossed paths with in college. Besides the women, I was
attracted to Canada's promise of a far more humane bohemianism in southern
Ontario than was then available in New York or Philly, my hometown, in the
1980s.

The American put-down about Canadians being "boring" never made much sense to
me, especially back then. That nation's enviable health care system and low
crime rate coupled with its lack of messy foreign entanglements, insane domestic
political gridlock and failure to tolerate an unrestricted gun culture made
Canadians appear eminently rational and more interesting to me. They were
anything but boring. I used to hope in vain that America would eventually evolve
into a more "boring" place like Canada. If there is any kind of exceptionalism I
associate with Canadians, it is their relentless politeness and mania for
hospitality.

My old infatuation with our neighbors to the north was triggered again recently
by news coverage of that country's gracious reception of Syrian refugees who
arrived in that country last week. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau personally
greeted the first planeload of 163 refugees out of the expected 25,000 Canada
has agreed to take in.

"You're safe at home now," Mr. Trudeau said as he welcomed the weary immigrants
as they disembarked. Being met by their new country's leader so soon after the
vagaries of living in a war zone must have seemed surreal to them. After all,
their last president tried to drop barrel bombs on them.

Escaping the barbarity of ISIS and the chaos of an intractable civil war in the
land of their birth wasn't easy, but by some miracle they managed to end up as
new residents of North America's most humane country.

"Tonight, they step off the plane as refugees, but they walk out of this
terminal as permanent residents of Canada," Mr. Trudeau said to gathered media
and government officials. Even without the specter of xenophobia that has turned
the American political scene into an echo chamber of Donald Trump's darkest
musings about foreigners, it would be difficult to picture President Barack
Obama - or any American president - making the kind of gesture that Mr. Trudeau
offered.

In contrast, America has agreed to take in 10,000 Syrian refugees. Because of
fierce domestic political resistance during this election year, the vetting
process for each refugee is expected to become exponentially more onerous. The
recent terror attacks in Paris and San Bernardino, Calif., have transformed
Muslim refugees seeking safety into a terrifying "other" who are presumed guilty
until a rigorous background check clears them.

Obviously, some caution is warranted. The Islamic State has made no secret of
its desires to infiltrate the ranks of refugees to slip into the West, even
though many of its followers already hold valid passports to these nations.
Opportunism and war have gone hand in hand for thousands of years. Still, an
exaggerated fear of Syrian refugees is being fomented by Mr. Trump and his
rivals for the Republican presidential nomination. Mr. Trump has even gone so
far as to compare the Syrian refugees to the mythical Trojan Horse, hoping that
his supporters are dumb enough to take him literally.

When it comes to welcoming the refugees, it's easy to be embarrassed by the
contrast in styles between our two countries. Some states - the usual suspects -
have governors who say they will resist refugee resettlement. Their reaction is
reminiscent of the irrationality and paranoia that greeted American medical
volunteers returning from Africa after helping those stricken by the Ebola
crisis.

America hasn't always been as xenophobic as it is now, though we've frequently
wrestled with shameful nativist impulses. The feel-good stories coming out of
Canada regarding Syrian refugee resettlement should embarrass us. As a nation,
we've proved innumerable times we have the capacity to be just as generous to
refugees as our Canadian neighbors. Recently, we've given in to our darkest
fears because those vying for power in our democracy are cowards and demagogues.

Maybe the Statue of Liberty should relocate to the other side of Niagara Falls
until we recover our national nerve.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Tony Norman: tnorman@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1631.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.

                              319 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            December 11, 2015 Friday

Syrian refugee crisis needs both compassion, discernment

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 689 words


In recent weeks, the partisan banter related to Syrian refugees has reached a
fevered pitch.

I sense it's time to be very candid and maybe even break a few pastoral
confidences. I spent 19 years serving East Africa in church development,
education, and media. About 10 years ago, I started to conceptualize I may get a
USA posting. So, I met every immigrant I could when I visited America, and when
I took a USA posting three years ago, I went full-bore on meeting as many
immigrants as possible. I'd guess I've interacted with over 1,000 and maybe as
many as 2,000 immigrants.

With many, their context is new to me, and I have lots of cultural learning to
do. However, if they are from Africa's Great Lakes, I know the context well. The
region has a history of conflict. Some come to America as refugees. I've twice
interacted with an African immigrant that I quickly realized most in his "home"
nation would consider a war criminal. Other times, I've had some strong
suspicions. I was struck with how naive the American immigration system can be.
I've felt that in the political rhetoric of the day, the vetting process was
inadequate. With these experiences, a terrorist entering the United States under
the cover of refugee status seems a distinct possibility.

I've also been friends and maybe even the pastor for USA embassy personnel who
do immigration interviews. I've been amazed at the pace of their work. My
conversations that lead me to judgment take hours. Their conversations and work
pace allow only a few minutes. They are horribly overworked. Time constraints
will mean they miss details. All I've known have leaned heavily toward a sense
of when in doubt, don't issue a visa.

Yet, I also see that immigrants represent the values that most resonate with my
interpretation of the ideals of America. They are more likely to be employed
than native-born Americans. Asian and African immigrants are twice as well
educated as native-born Americans. Almost all immigrant groups have lower rates
of divorce.

They have more kids. Their children are more likely to be born to married
parents. They attend church more often. They reason in community. Their homes
are multi-generational. They have higher rates of entrepreneurial success.

Though I'm currently a political abstainer, I tend to vote conservative. I find
my conservative family values are more represented in immigrants to America than
in native-born Americans.

The partisan banter about immigration strikes me as paranoid. It's driven by
fear. My boss told me over and over again to fear not. His answer to fear was to
act out of sacrifice, courage, and compassion. Love always overcomes fear.

Pragmatically, it is a minuscule number of refugees who are really terrorists.
Yes, the vetting process should be improved. Hire more people. Slow down the
interviews. Get some Americans who know the cultural details as consultants.
Yet, recognize the relationship networks that bring potential terrorists to
America are already here.

The immigration river can't be stopped, but it can be stewarded. Closing borders
and such banter only fuel the social and economic reasons that create the
frustrations that fuel terrorism. Since most Iraqi and Syrian refugees are
fleeing the terror of ISIS, allowing them to become part of the American
experience will strengthen our security.

Practically when refugees find education, employment, and opportunity in the
USA, the Internet gives them a voice of reason back "home."

My American Evangelical family, when you are tempted to blindly bash Syrian
refugees, please read your Bible. It shows that refugee communities have always
changed their "home" nations. Just follow Daniel, Nehemiah, and Paul's refugee
journeys. As an American Evangelical whose bottom line is evangelism, what price
will we pay if our immigration policy prevents a Daniel, Nehemiah, or Paul from
entering our borders?

Both discernment and compassion are required to process Syrian refugees.

Dave Jenkins, of Carol Stream, is founder of a Chicago-area church called
Nations Chapel. He and his family spent 19 years in East Africa in church
development, education and media.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Paddock Publications, Inc.

                              320 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       The Daily Gleaner (New Brunswick)

                            December 7, 2015 Monday

Syrians are the world's first climate change refugees

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 720 words


VANCOUVER * Canada has an opportunity to once again be known as a nation of
small towns with big hearts greeting the world's first "environmental refugees."

Get ready Canada for a reinvigoration of the Nanaimos, Medicine Hats, North
Battlefords, Selkirks, Thunder Bays, Rimouskis, Monctons, Dartmouths,
Summersides, and Ganders as choice destinations for displaced persons fleeing
chaos around the world.

Clearly, large segments of the global population are on the move, and some of
them are being displaced by climate change.

A sea of displaced walkers and boaters arc north-westward to Europe from
northern Africa, Syria and Iraq. The U.S. leadership debates leading up to the
primaries discuss the tens of thousands of Mexican nationals who are seeking an
American haven. And a stream of youth from Central America are hitch-hiking up
through Mexico to the Texas, New Mexico, Arizona and California borders.

There are 19.5 million refugees in the world today, according to Citizenship and
Immigration. Their homelands are characterized as "war-torn countries," and many
are said to have experienced "unthinkable horrors." The government website's
underlying premise is that political conflicts create refugee movements.

Only about 100,000 can be resettled each year, and Canada has recently been
taking about 10,000 of those. As of Sept. 15, Canada has resettled 22,405 Iraqi
refugees since 2009. We have resettled 2,563 Syrian refugees as of Oct. 5, but
now we are committing to resettle a further 25,000 by early 2016. This is a
noble goal.

As Canadians, we should be proud of our values of compassion and fairness that
underlie our actions of both refugee protection and resettlement assistance. We
should also be aware that the causes of refugee status are changing.

No less a humanitarian than Prince Charles (Reuters: Nov. 23) is signalling that
we should consider that the Syrian civil war is caused by climate change: to
wit, a six-year drought that has dislocated farming families and forced them
into cities like Aleppo, Damascus and ultimately Amman and Beirut.

Here, they found little work suited to their traditional skills; young men fell
prey to sectarian brain washing. Their younger brothers and sisters have had
nearly five years of no (or inferior) schooling. Under these conditions, caring
parents will act in their children's best interests.

In Charles' analysis, "We never deal with the underlying root cause which
regrettably is what we're doing to our natural environment. I mean the
difficulties in 2008 with the financial crash - that was a banking crisis. But
we're now facing a real possibility of nature's bank going bust."

The current cohort of Syrian and Iraqi refugees may be the first group of
environmental refugees to move to more hospitable climes in large numbers. If
indeed they are, the Canadian refugee system will inevitably have to be amended
to deal with "environmentally torn countries," whose inhospitable climates have
set the stage for mass urban migration from rural villages and farms.

To such populations, Canada is a kind of Promised Land. Underpopulated,
potentially benefiting agriculturally from the early stages of global warming,
and predisposed to middle-power diplomacy and decency, Canada is the kind of
country people everywhere would like to raise their children.

Consider the choices a young Syrian family faces today in a Beiruti refugee
camp, perhaps a repurposed concrete parking garage in the city's core. To stay
is to accept an uncertain fate at best, cooking dinners on an open fire and
hoping for charity or marginal employment in the city's street-side markets.
Educational opportunities for children will be severely limited. To decide to
move is to embrace hope of redemption in another system - in another world. To
such parents, Canada is the dream destination.

Facing this uncertain world, Canada needs seriously to plan for a growing tide
of refugees. Expensive real estate and a high cost of living will bar some
traditional recipient cities like Vancouver and Toronto from playing a key role.

It is time for the smaller, less costly regional centres to move to the fore.

Mike Robinson has been CEO of three Canadian NGOs: the Arctic Institute of North
America, the Glenbow Museum, and the Bill Reid Gallery. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2015 The
Daily Gleaner (Fredericton)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 The Daily Gleaner
                              All Rights Reserved

                              321 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily - Africa Weekly

                                December 4, 2015

Americans should welcome more syrian refugees

BYLINE: Zhong Bu

LENGTH: 1118  words


Facing the civil wars and endless rampage of Islamic State terrorists, Syrian
people are desperately needing more humanity aid from the International
communities, in which the United States should play a bigger role.

Recent refugee from Syria Sandy Khabbazeh poses for a portrait while holding a
photo of her family who remain behind in Syria, in Oakland, New Jersey, November
22, 2015.[Photo/CFP]

Almost immediately after the Paris terrorist attacks on November 13, more than
two dozens of governors in the United States announced that their states would
not welcome Syrian refugees. Later when the news came out that a Syrian refugee
's passport was found near the body of a Paris suicide bomber, a few more
governors, citing security concerns, joined to oppose the entry of Syrian
refugees into their states.

These governors' stance goes directly against their president's, who calls on
Americans to welcome more Syrian refugees as latter-day Pilgrims. In his
Thanksgiving speech to Americans, President Obama again urges them to show
generosity to Syrian refugees, reminding them that the Pilgrims who came to
North America in 1620 were also fleeing persecution.

Back in September, Secretary of State John Kerry proposed to Congress members
that the United States increases the total number of refugees allowed in the
country to 75,000 in 2016 from 70,000 this year. In 2017, U.S. government plans
to accept 100,000 refugees from all parts of the world. Meanwhile, at least
10,000 Syrian refugees should be accepted into the country in the next fiscal
year, starting on October 1. In those days, no opposition to the plan was heard
from any of the governors. Actually, the United States began to accept Syrian
refugees since 2012, and 1,854 Syrian refugees had settled down and started
their new lives, facing little opposition until now.

In fact, this is truly a shock to me when I see so many governors openly refuse
refugees from a specific country. I never saw anything similar happened like
this after I have lived here for almost two decades. As a nation of immigrants,
America has long followed a national policy of accepting immigrants and
refugees. It beckons to its shores the downtrodden, the persecuted, and all
those "yearning to breathe free." America embraces those who come with good work
ethics in search of a land of promises and opportunities. Today more than 13% of
the U.S. population are immigrants, the highest level since the 1920s. With this
background in mind, I am disappointed at those governors who shut the door to
Syrian refugees.

On the other hand, I do understand the governors' concerns about terrorists
sneaking into their states by hiding among the flood of Syrian refugees. But
those governors are making promises they are unable to keep because states are
not empowered to reject immigrants granted refugee status by U.S. federal
government. Legally, U.S. state governments do not have the legal foundation for
engaging in foreign or diplomatic relations. The federal government assumes the
authority in handling issues of immigration, naturalization and deportation.

According to the U.S. Refugee Act of 1980, U.S. presidents have the power to
admit refugees who face persecution or a well-founded fear of persecution based
on race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group or
political opinion, which is exactly what President Obama plans to do. A 2012
decision, Arizona v. United States, reaffirmed the federal government's
authority over the states on immigration matters and specifically stated that it
might be "inappropriate" to return an immigrant to a country mired in civil war.
It is clear that state governments do not have legal authority to refuse the
Syrian refugees that are admitted by the federal government.

Still, I feel that those governors' attitude to Syrian refugees reflects part of
Americans' public opinion regarding U.S. refugee policy. In addition to the
security concerns of Syrian refugees, some Americans have plenty of reasons
worrying about refugees. My home state Pennsylvania, for example, is very open
to refugees and has accepted many from Ukraine, China, Mexico and other Latin
America countries. The arrival of new refugees does bring in a series of social
issues and financial burden to local governments and communities. In the past
few years, a small number of refugees living in Pennsylvania were charged with
theft, burglary, drug dealing, and even murder. But to be fair, I did not see
any data suggesting that the refigures' crime rate be higher than non-refugees.
But there are data showing most refugees catch up with other Americans in a
short period of time.

One of the historic examples are about Vietnamese refugees. After the Vietnam
War ended, the United States accepted more than 120,000 in 1975 alone. A Gallup
poll at the time found that only 36% of Americans agreed to bring them to their
country. Most Americans then feared the Vietnamese refugees would either "steal"
jobs from them or end up to be a burden on the welfare system if they failed to
land jobs. Some worried that the Cold War was still raging, and the refugees
might sway the future political leanings of the country. Others concerned that
Americans, desperate to leave the war behind, simply dreaded seeing Vietnamese
faces on their streets.

Four years later in 1979, Time magazine reported that though the transition
hadn't necessarily been a smooth one, most of the Vietnamese immigrants who had
come to the U.S. in 1975 had adjusted well. Employment was actually higher among
that group than the average of the American population, and the number who
depended on the government for help was sinking. According to Time magazine,
about three-quarters of those 1975 Vietnamese families earned $800 a month or
more, which is $2,775 in today's dollars. The Vietnamese immigrant population
remains relatively well-off in the United States even since.

Comparing to the refugees from other areas in the world, 120,000 Vietnamese
refugees was not a large number for America. After World War II, about 400,000
Eastern Europeans came to the United States, while 650,000 Cubans were accepted
into the country as refugees after Cuba cut its diplomatic ties with the United
States in 1961.

Facing the civil wars and endless rampage of Islamic State terrorists, Syrian
people are desperately needing more humanity aid from the International
communities, in which the United States should play a bigger role, including
accepting more refugees from that area.

The author, Dr. Zhong Bu, Associate Professor from College of Communications,
Pennsylvania State University.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1497/50/144921630593.jpg

b083fe9fe6d817cb73bd2d.jpg

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1497


                    Copyright 2015 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              322 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                          November 25, 2015 Wednesday
                              Worcester TG Edition

Misconceptions plague plight of refugees

BYLINE: Telegram & Gazette Staff

SECTION: NEWS; 1

LENGTH: 616 words


WORCESTER -- Misconceptions about refugees and what they go through have
dominated the conversation about the recent Syrian refugee crisis, Torli Krua
told an audience Tuesday night at the Worcester Public Library.

SEE Refugees,  A13

One of those misconceptions is that refugees want to leave their country and
never go back, said Mr. Krua, who fled his native Liberia in the midst of that
country's civil war in 1990. Many do want to return, and as founder of Universal
Human Rights International, Mr. Krua promotes refugee-led systemic solutions
that focus on the source of refugee problems.

For too long, Mr. Krua said, developed nations have funneled support for various
rebel groups and refugee resettlement instead of dealing with the roots of
instability in countries such as Liberia, where unemployment is extraordinarily
high and much of the foreign aid that flows into the country is misappropriated
by the ruling class.

Promoting peace is the best way to solve the refugee crises, he said.

Mr. Krua's organization assists former refugees in returning to their native
countries when hostilities cease. He said coming to America not only gives them
safety from persecution in their home country, but it allows them the
opportunity to learn skills and get an education. He talked about former
Liberian refugees who have gone back home to build schools and promote
entrepreneurial programs. The current state of thought on refugees is a one-way
street, Mr. Krua said.

"But people need to go back," he added.

Refugees have become a political football and a hot-button issue in recent
weeks; several governors of U.S. states have said Syrian refugees are not
welcome in light of the Paris terrorist attacks because of rumors that some of
the assailants were refugees in Europe.

But in the U.S. in particular, getting refugee status is a rigorous process that
involves background checks, interviews and specific criteria, Mr. Krua said. The
U.S. has pledged to accept up to 10,000 Syrian refugees during the next year.

Nobody wakes up saying they want to become a refugee, Mr. Krua said.

In 1990, Mr. Krua was living in the Liberian capital of Monrovia and earned a
good living working for the former Wang Laboratories computer firm. He provided
technical support for the company in Africa, the Middle East and Europe.

Rising unrest made headlines and led newscasts in Monrovia, but at 4 a.m. one
day it all came right to his door. Armed men claimed he was supporting the
rebels and took him out to be executed.

He initially avoided being killed because he had a security pass that allowed
him in the U.S. Embassy, where he had a contract. He convinced his kidnappers
that if he was killed the U.S. government would come after them. Eventually he
was able to flee to Brussels on one of the last commercial flights out of the
country for 14 years, he said.

He eventually settled in America and now lives in Boston, where he is a pastor
with the Greater Boston Refugee Ministry.

There are many refugees with similarly harrowing stories, but when viewed as a
part of the entire population of a country, refugees only account for a small
percentage, Mr. Krua said. He said the enormous resources being spent on war and
refugee resettlement would be better spent on funding education, infrastructure
and entrepreneurship.

"Who's going to deal with the issues better than the people who live there?" he
said.

From Page A1

Torli Krua, founder of Universal Human Rights International, gives a talk
Tuesday at the Worcester Public Library about refugee-led solutions in areas of
conflict. Christine Hochkeppel / T&G Staff

Torli Krua, founder of Universal Human Rights International. Christine
Hochkeppel / T&G Staff

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2015 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              323 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          November 25, 2015 Wednesday

Washington: CAPAC Leaders on Syrian and Iraqi Refugee Legislation

LENGTH: 501 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: Office of the MP Mike Honda has issued the following news release:



 Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted 289-137 to pass H.R. 4038, the
American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act of 2015.  This bill adds
new certification requirements to the existing refugee admissions process,
including requirements that the FBI Director, the Homeland Security Secretary,
and the National Intelligence Director concur on the approval of each refugee
admitted from Iraq and Syria.  CAPAC Chair Rep. Judy Chu (CA-27) and CAPAC Chair
Emeritus Rep. Michael Honda (CA-17) released the following statements:





 Congresswoman Judy Chu (CA-27), CAPAC Chair:



 &ldquo;The terrorist attacks in Paris were horrifying. Our thoughts are with
the victims and all of France as we are reminded of our own need to ensure the
safety of our cities and people. But this bill is not the solution. We must stop
using fear tactics as a means to enact bad policy.



 &ldquo;The reality is that we already have in place one of the strictest
refugee policies in the world. It takes up to two years of multiple in-person
interviews, background checks, and interagency cooperation before a refugee is
allowed into the U.S. This process, thanks to the hard work of our intelligence
and security communities, is and has been successful at weeding out threats. And
that is why the vast majority of refugees admitted are widows, orphans, and
victims of torture.



 &ldquo;It would be wrong from a moral and a security standpoint to abandon them
in refugee camps where they are subject to violence or radicalization. I agree
that we need a serious plan to confront the threat of ISIS, but that should not
begin with attacks on frightened and vulnerable women and children. Closing our
borders to refugees is a mistake and a violation of our country's values.&rdquo;




 Congressman Michael Honda (CA-17), CAPAC Chair Emeritus:



 &ldquo;Today, we have people fleeing violence and persecution in the Middle
East, Central America, Asia, and Africa who are counting on the United States to
stay true to its values of humanity, compassion, and religious freedom. I
opposed the U.S. SAFE Act because it upends our existing rigorous refugee
process and slams the door in the face of the very people fleeing ISIL and its
atrocities. It is during times of peril that we must remember the lessons we
have learned and stay anchored to our Constitution. It is what makes our Nation
great.



 &ldquo;We need only look to the internment of 120,000 people of Japanese
ancestry after the bombing of Pearl Harbor to see how fear-based decisions can
leave a lasting dark spot on our proud history. We cannot repeat our mistakes
born from racial prejudice, war hysteria, and a failure of political leadership.
Now is the time to uphold the legacy of the United States as a country founded
by immigrants and people seeking freedom and liberty.&rdquo;



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusme.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              324 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                            November 23, 2015 Monday

Americans must keep their wits in attacks' wake

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 484 words


The Islamic State's carnage in Paris throws down a new gauntlet. It presents a
heightened challenge to the free world's ability to protect its people - and to
America's character as a nation, as governors and presidential candidates
cravenly seize the moment to oppose accepting Syrian refugees.

Militarily, President Barack Obama's declaration that our ISIS strategy will be
the same only more so is unlikely to last.

We need to develop real partnerships with nations in Europe, the Middle East and
Africa that have suffered attacks by ISIS.

Surely France isn't the only one ready to take the threat seriously and fully
share responsibility for eliminating it.

The threat to our nation's integrity and core values is a different matter,
however. We need to own that.

Before the Paris attack, Obama agreed to accept 10,000 Syrian refugees in the
United States - a modest number that roughly equates to putting three (yes,
three) refugees in each county in America.

Still, Republican presidential candidates objected.

Now Republican governors are clamoring to declare they will not accept refugees
in their states, and Congress is weighing options that would make an already
stringent and lengthy review of refugees even tougher.

At least two presidential candidates, Ted Cruz and Jeb Bush, have suggested we
might help Christians but not Muslim families.

Many of the 250,000 men, women and children who have died in Syria's war have
been Muslim.

Fortunately, intelligent and conscientious voices also are rising - including
that of the vice chair of California's Republican Party, Harmeet Dillon.

She wrote on Facebook: "Let's be careful, and smart, and vigilant, but not lose
our humanity, and not turn on our fellow human beings with hateful rhetoric by
judging them guilty just because of where they came from seeking peace and
safety."

Amen to that. Fortunately, California's Democratic Gov. Jerry Brown, Sen. Dianne
Feinstein and other state leaders feel the same. California will continue to
accept refugees who have been thoroughly vetted.

In Europe - particularly Germany - a tradition of welcoming refugees has led to
a flood of them.

One of the Paris attackers may have entered with them, and it's legitimate to
wonder whether others might slip in among those fleeing rather than making war.

But in the United States, here's the thing the anti-refugee grandstanders either
don't know or choose to ignore: Syrian refugees already are carefully screened
before they enter this country and again when they arrive here.

It can take two years to pass all the litmus tests, including biometric-based
investigations and background checks ranging from work history to terrorist
databases.

About 70 percent of the 1,800 refugees admitted since the war began have been
women and children.

One litmus test they have not had to pass is religion. To remain a nation worth
fighting for, America needs to keep it that way.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              325 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                      The Free Press (Mankato, Minnesota)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            November 20, 2015 Friday

Refugee stories become a classroom

BYLINE: Trey Mewes, The Free Press, Mankato, Minn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 760 words


Nov. 20--Fartum Ali was only 12 years old when she was separated from her
family.

A bomb had gone off inside her family's home in Somalia during the night, about
eight years ago. After that, she and a few other family members walked on foot
from Somalia to Kenya with several relatives. The month-long trip was done
entirely at night.

According to Ali, soldiers roaming the countryside would have killed her and her
family had they seen them during the day.

That's not a normal childhood for a typical American adult.

Yet that's why Ali and several of her Adult Basic Education classmates shared
their stories of growing up as refugees and immigrants Thursday with Minnesota
State University students.

"It's useful for my students," said Elizabeth Sandell, elementary education
professor at MSU.

Sandell's class, Human Relations in a Multicultural Society, is a prerequisite
for would-be teachers to show them how to be culturally competent -- not to
become an expert in various cultures, but to learn how to be receptive and
accepting of people from different backgrounds.

To that end, she and Bette Blaisdell, an ABE teacher for Mankato Area Public
Schools, put together an idea exchange over the past few weeks.

About 15 of Blaisdell's students came to MSU to discuss their experiences as
refugees or immigrants from Africa and the Middle East. MSU students learned
from them and then took the ABE students on campus tours to highlight what an
MSU education could offer them.

"This is really good for them," Blaisdell said of her ABE students. "This is a
big hurdle unlike anything they've ever done thus far."

The other side

Life isn't easy for immigrants, and can be even worse for refugees. The U.S.
immigration system makes entering America difficult for immigrants and refugees,
so several years often pass before foreigners are allowed in.

Fartum had to wait four years to come to the U.S. She hasn't seen her parents in
years, not even when she traveled to South Africa this past summer to marry a
Somali man -- who is still waiting for approval to come to America.

Mohamed Obeyd was born in Somalia but grew up in Yemen. He had to wait for six
years before he was allowed to come to the U.S. in 2014, as the U.S. Embassy
closed in 2009 due to increasing conflict in southern Yemen. Obeyd barely made
it to the U.S., however -- he got on a plane in September 2014 on the day before
the U.S. Embassy in Yemen closed once more, due to civil war.

Now that he's here, the 19-year-old is learning English so he can one day attend
college. Yet he has trouble proving he graduated from high school -- his
transcript is back in Yemen, nearly impossible to retrieve during the country's
current civil war.

Those stories are much different than what many of Sandell's students have
experienced.

"A lot of students here are of European-American descent, and they come from
southern Minnesota or Wisconsin," she said. "They come into class thinking and
feeling they don't have a lot of experience dealing with cultures."

That's what led Sandell to slowly shift the class from a knowledge-based course
to an experience-based course since she started teaching it six years ago.

"Experience and reflection make the difference," she said. "It's worth the time
to do things like this."

A new perspective

Though ABE students may study English to get ahead, they weren't so different
from their MSU counterparts. From sharing common interests like soccer, TV and
reading to a mutual appreciation for food, the students bonded over plenty of
common experiences.

"It gives you a totally different perspective on your own life," MSU senior
Lindsey Bottema said. "Especially when you hear their stories of why they came
here, how their parents, some of them have died. ...It just totally puts it into
perspective how lucky we are to be here."

That kind of interaction was important to MSU and Mankato schools officials,
especially in light of the recent attacks on Paris by terrorists affiliated with
ISIS.

ABE students didn't shy away from discussing how the recent global struggle
against terrorism has affected them. Obeyd pointed out the Islamic extremists
responsible for the Paris attacks aren't considered true Muslims by many who
practice Islam.

"In our religion, we're not supposed to kill people," Obeyd said. "They claim
they are Muslims, but we as Muslims, we don't accept them as Muslims."

Follow Trey Mewes on Twitter at @MFPTreyMewes

___ (c)2015 The Free Press (Mankato, Minn.) Visit The Free Press (Mankato,
Minn.) at www.mankatofreepress.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20151120-FP-Refugee-stories-become-a-classroom-1120-20151120

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FP


                         Copyright 2015 The Free Press

                              326 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           November 19, 2015 Thursday
                                Ontario Edition

REFUGEE CRISIS;
Don't let fear dilute Canada's generosity;
Let's stay clear-headed and remember that the Syrians we've committed to
accommodating are victims of terrorism, not agents of it

BYLINE: MARCUS GEE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 668 words


mgee@globeandmail.com

Since the events in Paris last week, concerns have been growing about the new
Liberal government's plans to take in 25,000 refugees by the end of the year.
They centre on two issues: capacity and security.

Can Canada really absorb so many people? And can it prevent terrorists from
infiltrating the country by posing as refugees?

Both concerns are exaggerated. Start with capacity. Twentyfive thousand refugees
works out to perhaps 5,000 or 6,000 families. Spread across a sparsely populated
country of 35 million, that hardly seems impossible. Canada takes in about a
quarter of a million immigrants a year as it is. It has many years of experience
of welcoming and absorbing newcomers, a record of successful integration that is
the envy of the world.

When Germany is taking in hundreds of thousands, it seems absurd for Canada to
quail at the prospect of 25,000. Big cities like Toronto, which can expect to
receive large numbers, have well-established networks to ease the entry of
arrivals. Refugee agencies, English teachers, health clinics, schools, community
groups, churches, mosques - all are standing ready to help.

So is the existing Syrian-Canadian community. Private groups are lining up to
sponsor refugees. Families are offering winter coats, linen, furniture and spare
rooms.

Ryerson University's Ratna Omidvar, chair of Lifeline Syria, which is organizing
support for refugees, says that she can't turn around in Toronto without bumping
into someone offering to help. Her group has lined up hundreds of offers of
sponsorship. "This is a movement that has gripped the imagination of the city in
a way I haven't seen for a long time," she says.

Whether or not the government reaches its ambitious goal of bringing in all
25,000 by year's end - and no one will care much if it takes a little longer -
it deserves credit for promising that Canada will do more to help ease the
refugee crisis, an effort that is in keeping with the country's recent history
of compassion in times of crisis. It would be a shame if the Paris attacks
planted doubts about that effort and made Canadians pull back from their usual
openness.

The Syrian refugees are victims of terror, not agents of it.

They are fleeing killers much like those who stalked the streets of Paris. Their
country has become a war zone. Of course Canada should do its utmost to help
them.

Canadians shouldn't let worries about security blunt their generosity. The
refugees we will be getting are not flooding onto our shores as they are onto
Europe's. Canada is a lucky place in many ways. Among them is the fact of its
geographic position. It means we are not subject to sudden waves of desperate
migrants. Europe faces Africa and the Middle East. The United States faces Latin
America. Canada has ocean on three sides and a wealthy democracy on the fourth.

Instead of having to deal with throngs of refugees pouring across our borders,
Canadian officials will reach out to the places where refugees have temporarily
settled, such as Lebanon, Turkey and Jordan. That makes it easier for
authorities to examine documentation and conduct medical, criminal and security
checks. United Nations refugee officials already perform those sorts of checks
in advance, in effect prescreening refugees and determining which are most
suited to resettlement in places like Canada even before Canadian authorities
conduct their own due diligence.

Many refugees belong to families who have been in camps or other makeshift
accommodation for months or years.

So it's disappointing to see so many political voices raising questions about
the refugee effort in the aftermath of the Paris attacks. Paris should not
change the way we respond to the plight of the refugees.

The best way to respond to terrorism is to keep thinking clearly, thrusting
aside the kinds of fears and doubts it seeks to spread. Neither fear over
Canadian security nor doubts about Canadian capacity should stand in the way of
a swift and generous response to the refugee crisis.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2015 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              327 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                           November 19, 2015 Thursday

Vetted Syrian refugees should be allowed

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 459 words


The Islamic State's carnage in Paris throws down a new gauntlet.

It presents a heightened challenge to the free world's ability to protect its
people - and to America's character as a nation, as governors and presidential
candidates cravenly seize the moment to oppose accepting Syrian refugees.

Militarily, President Obama's declaration that our ISIS strategy will be the
same only more so is unlikely to last. We need to develop real partnerships with
nations in Europe, the Middle East and Africa that have suffered attacks by
ISIS. Surely France isn't the only one ready to take the threat seriously and
fully share responsibility for eliminating it.

The threat to our nation's integrity and core values is a different matter,
however. We need to own that.

Before the Paris attack, Obama agreed to accept 10,000 Syrian refugees in the
United States - a modest number that would fill about half the seats in San
Jose's arena. Still, Republican presidential candidates objected, and now
Republican governors are clamoring to declare they will not accept refugees in
their states.

At least two presidential candidates, Ted Cruz and Jeb Bush, have suggested we
might help Christians but not Muslim families. Many of the 250,000 men, women
and children who have died in Syria's war have been Muslim.

Fortunately, intelligent and conscientious voices also are rising - including
that of the vice chair of California's Republican Party, Harmeet Dillon. She
wrote on Facebook: "Let's be careful, and smart, and vigilant, but not lose our
humanity, and not turn on our fellow human beings with hateful rhetoric by
judging them guilty just because of where they came from seeking peace and
safety."

Amen to that. Fortunately, California's Democratic Gov. Jerry Brown, Sen. Dianne
Feinstein and other state leaders feel the same. California will continue to
accept refugees who have been thoroughly vetted.

In Europe - particularly Germany - a tradition of welcoming refugees has led to
a flood of them. One of the Paris attackers may have entered with them, and it's
legitimate to wonder whether others might slip in among those fleeing rather
than making war.

But in the United States, here's the thing the anti-refugee grandstanders either
don't know or choose to ignore: Syrian refugees already are carefully screened
before they enter this country and again when they arrive here.

It can take two years to pass all the litmus tests, including biometric-based
investigations and background checks ranging from work history to terrorist
databases. About 70 percent of the 1,800 refugees admitted since the war began
have been women and children.

One litmus test they have not had to pass is religion. To remain a nation worth
fighting for, America needs to keep it that way.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

                              328 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                          November 18, 2015 Wednesday
                                Ontario Edition

SYRIAN REFUGEES;
A helping hand includes military aid;
Tackling the Islamic State and Assad regime requires long-term commitments and
strong action with allies, Chris Alexander writes

BYLINE: Chris Alexander

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 853 words


CROSSINGS Chronicling the global refugee and migrant experience

The terrorist attacks in Paris remind us of the scale of the threat facing
Syrians, Iraqis and the whole world. The Islamic State army now numbers tens of
thousands. Affiliates of IS and alQaeda are active in dozens of countries. Both
terrorist outfits have been clear: They aim to control territory and kill
civilians wherever they can, naming the United States, France, Canada, Australia
and other democracies among their targets.

This is the largest terrorist threat the world has yet faced - larger than the
Taliban and alQaeda in Afghanistan before the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. The
Islamic State's multiple attacks in Paris were almost as deadly as anything the
Taliban has done in Kabul since 2006. IS has also hit Beirut and downed a
Russian civilian aircraft in Egypt. The largest attack on France since the
Second World War requires resolve: Without military action by allies, more
attacks are inevitable.

This is a triangular war, pitting Syria's Bashar al-Assad (reinforced by
Vladimir Putin and Iran) against Nusra Front and IS, who face a second front in
Iraq. Canada should scale up support for the Kurdish peshmerga and all truly
committed to destroying IS and protecting Syrian and Iraqi civilians. We should
push diplomatically for an end to covert Turkish and Arab support for jihadis,
as well as Russian and Iranian meddling. To defeat IS, the proxy war must end in
both Syria and Iraq.

Canada should keep its CF-18s in the fight. Military success is inconceivable
without international control of air space over both countries, as well as an
end to Mr. al-Assad's barrel bombs. We should expand use of Canada's Special
Operations Regiment and offer embedded Canadian Army training teams, with air
mobility.

At the same time, Canada should show leadership on assistance to refugees. With
four million citizens now outside the country and seven million displaced
inside, Syria is the greatest humanitarian disaster of our time - with no end in
sight, as the UN High Commissioner for Refugees reports.

Since 2011, Canada has provided more than $1-billion in assistance for Syria.
The new Liberal government deserves praise for its platform commitment to
provide $100-million more for the UNHCR for Syria, as well as $250-million for
processing, sponsorship and settlement services.

To resettle more Syrians, we need sustained effort, not arbitrary deadlines.
Canadians will support a longer timeline to allow for proper selection and full
prearrival screening for national security, criminality and health, as required
under Canadian law. We do not make the world a better place by making Canada
less safe.

We are good at this. In January, 2015, Canada was the first to commit to
resettle 10,000 Syrians - something the United States only did in September. As
of Nov. 3, Canada had resettled 3,089 Syrian refugees (since 2014) and 23,218
Iraqi refugees (since 2009).

Only Australia and Sweden have given as many permanent spots to Syrians; only
the United States has welcomed more Iraqis. With careful management, Canada's
pace of resettlement can rise safely and sustainably to 15,000 Syrians and
Iraqis annually.

We should resettle the most vulnerable, focus on minorities of all kinds, build
on the unique strengths of Canada's private sponsors and encourage employers
once reliant on temporary foreign workers to hire refugees.

This is an example Europe can emulate; the overwhelming majority of 700,000
Syrians reaching Europe to date have received only temporary status in their
host countries.

The global outlook for refugees remains bleak. UNHCR's June, 2015, Global Trends
Report chronicles 15 new or reignited conflicts since 2010, triggering the worst
refugee crisis since the Second World War. Of 60 million displaced worldwide,
one quarter are in the Middle East and North Africa, another 15 million in the
rest of Africa, 10 million in South and Southeast Asia and nine million in
Europe and Turkey. Drugfuelled criminal violence has forced many to flee in
Central America and parts of Mexico; six million are displaced inside Colombia.

We should continue to resettle and support refugees from every continent. Canada
offers the full package. Of refugees who became new nationals of 27 countries in
2014, 85 per cent became Canadian citizens. But for every refugee we welcome,
5,000 more stay behind.

Incoming UN High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi oversaw the most
successful return of refugees in history. But those five million Afghans only
went home when the world acted to oust the Taliban. He deserves our full
support.

Genuine leadership requires long-term commitments and strong action with allies.
In Syria and Iraq, only the responsible use of military force, including air
power, will stop the brutality of IS and Mr. al-Assad.

Non-intervention, disengagement and withdrawal are not paths to peace, but
rather a guarantee of more war.

Chris Alexander was minister of citizenship and immigration from 2013-15, and
deputy special representative of the UN Secretary General for Political Affairs
in Afghanistan (2005-09).

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2015 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              329 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Taking Note)

                           November 17, 2015 Tuesday

The Vile Politics of the Syrian Refugee Crisis [UPDATED]

BYLINE: ERNESTO LONDOñO

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 462 words



HIGHLIGHT: As hundreds of thousands flee Syria, a growing number of American
politicians are responding with unspeakable cruelty.


Since 1975, the United States has resettled more than three million refugees.
They have contributed to the economy and culture of all 50 states. As hundreds
of thousands of Syrians have fled their war-ravaged homeland, a growing number
of American politicians - including more than half of the nation's governors -
are responding with unspeakable cruelty.

Here's a sample of reactions:

Asked whether he would allow orphaned refugees, Gov. Chris Christie of New
Jersey said: "I don't think orphans under five are being, you know, should be
admitted into the United States at this point."

Donald Trump, a leading Republican presidential candidate and the nation's
immigrant basher in chief, predictably joined the keep-em-out camp.

Refugees from Syria are now pouring into our great country. Who knows who they
are - some could be ISIS. Is our president insane?

- Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump)17 Nov 15

Gov. Greg Abbott of Texas wrote a letter to President Obama saying Texas would
not be welcoming to any new Syrian refugees. He warned that "opening our door to
them irresponsibly exposes our fellow Americans to unspeakable peril."

My letter to @POTUS: Texas WILL NOT accept any Syrian refugees in the wake of
the Paris attacks. https://t.co/GOALpfBD3X

- Gov. Greg Abbott (@GovAbbott)16 Nov 15

Gov. Rick Snyder of Michigan, which is home to one of the nation's largest
communities of Muslims, wrote a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry and Jeh
Johnson, the Secretary of Homeland Security, urging a "full review" of the
screening process for refugees.

Here is the letter that I sent to Secretary John Kerry and Secretary Jeh
Johnson: https://t.co/IcW1OJxrlj https://t.co/kxJYnrXpwh

- Governor Rick Snyder (@onetoughnerd)16 Nov 15

Even though governors have no control over refugee admission policy, Gov. Bobby
Jindal of Louisiana signed an executive order seeking to keep Syrian refugees
out of his state.

My letter to @POTUS: In light of Paris terrorist attacks, time to pause process
of refugees coming to the US https://t.co/v2K7wuigX0

- Gov. Bobby Jindal (@BobbyJindal)14 Nov 15

It is heartening that some governors, including Jay Inslee of Washington, took
the opposite tack, saying their states would continue to welcome people fleeing
war.

WA continues to welcome those seeking refuge from persecution, no matter where
they come from or their religion https://t.co/kT7dlJ4WJZ 3/3

- Governor Jay Inslee (@GovInslee)16 Nov 15

Update: Gov. Andrew Cuomo of New York addressed the refugee crisis during an
appearance at Harvard on Tuesday. "We have to protect Americans and we cannot
lose our soul as America in the process," he said. "The day America says, 'Close
the gates, build the wall,' then I say take down the Statue of Liberty, because
you've gone to a different place."

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              330 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 17, 2015 Tuesday

Mercury News editorial:

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Editorials

LENGTH: 460 words


The Islamic State's carnage in Paris throws down a new gauntlet. It presents a
heightened challenge to the free world's ability to protect its people -- and to
America's character as a nation, as governors and presidential candidates
cravenly seize the moment to oppose accepting Syrian refugees.

Militarily, President Obama's declaration that our ISIS strategy will be the
same only more so is unlikely to last. We need to develop real partnerships with
nations in Europe, the Middle East and Africa that have suffered attacks by
ISIS. Surely France isn't the only one ready to take the threat seriously and
fully share responsibility for eliminating it.

The threat to our nation's integrity and core values is a different matter,
however. We need to own that.

Before the Paris attack, Obama agreed to accept 10,000 Syrian refugees in the
United States -- a modest number that would fill about half the seats in San
Jose's arena. Still, Republican presidential candidates objected, and now
Republican governors are clamoring to declare they will not accept refugees in
their states.

At least two presidential candidates, Ted Cruz and Jeb Bush, have suggested we
might help Christians but not Muslim families. Many of the 250,000 men, women
and children who have died in Syria's war have been Muslim.

Fortunately, intelligent and conscientious voices also are rising -- including
that of the vice chair of California's Republican Party, Harmeet Dillon. She
wrote on Facebook: "Let's be careful, and smart, and vigilant, but not lose our
humanity, and not turn on our fellow human beings with hateful rhetoric by
judging them guilty just because of where they came from seeking peace and
safety."

Amen to that. Fortunately, California's Democratic Gov. Jerry Brown, Sen. Dianne
Feinstein and other state leaders feel the same. California will continue to
accept refugees who have been thoroughly vetted.

In Europe -- particularly Germany -- a tradition of welcoming refugees has led
to a flood of them. One of the Paris attackers may have entered with them, and
it's legitimate to wonder whether others might slip in among those fleeing
rather than making war.

But in the United States, here's the thing the anti-refugee grandstanders either
don't know or choose to ignore: Syrian refugees already are carefully screened
before they enter this country and again when they arrive here.

It can take two years to pass all the litmus tests, including biometric-based
investigations and background checks ranging from work history to terrorist
databases. About 70 percent of the 1,800 refugees admitted since the war began
have been women and children.

One litmus test they have not had to pass is religion. To remain a nation worth
fighting for, America needs to keep it that way.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              331 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                US Official News

                           November 17, 2015 Tuesday

Washington: Senator Lankford Statement on Governor Fallin's Call To Suspend
Syrian Refugee Program

LENGTH: 296 words

DATELINE: Lahore



    Washington: Office of the Senator James Lankford has issued the following
news release:



 Senator James Lankford (R-OK) today released the following statement on
Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin's call to suspend the acceptance of Syrian
refugees into the United States in the wake of the deadly terror attacks in
Paris.





 "Millions of peaceful Syrian families have been forced to flee for their lives
from religious and ethnic brutality. The small contingent of ISIL fighters rule
over many villages in Syria and Iraq with ruthless vengeance. America has
historically accepted thousands of refugees each year, but the refugees fleeing
from Syria cannot be vetted the same as refugees fleeing from Central Africa or
Central America; the unique risk is much higher. Until Congress and the American
people can understand the detail of the background checks, the final selection
process, and the strength of the security procedures, it is reasonable to
suspend the movement of Syrian refugees to the United States. Currently, it
takes over 18 months to vet a single refugee coming to the United States. To
delay and evaluate the process does not significantly affect the program, but it
does provide an additional layer of security for American families."



 The brutal violence from ISIL has contributed to a major Syrian refugee crisis
in the region. For several decades, America has helped refugees who are escaping
tyranny, including persecuted Christians. On October 21, Senator Lankford called
on the Obama Administration to ensure a stringent vetting process to verify the
backgrounds of refugees. CLICK HERE to read that letter to Secretary of State
John Kerry.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright2015Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              332 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            November 2, 2015 Monday

Washington: Refugee Resettlement In The United States

LENGTH: 613 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: U.S Department of State Diplomacy in Action has issued the
following news release:



 The U.S. Refugee Admissions Program embodies the United States' values of
compassion, generosity, and leadership in serving vulnerable populations. The
United States has welcomed more than three million refugees since 1975, helping
them build new lives in all 50 states.



 Identifying Refugees



 Refugees survive terrible ordeals: torture, upheaval, perilous journeys, and
tremendous loss. They are persecuted because of their race, religion,
nationality, political opinion, or membership in a particular social group. The
vast majority of the nearly 20 million refugees in the world today will receive
support in the country to which they fled. A small number, particularly the most
vulnerable, will be resettled in a third country, such as the United States.

 What is Resettlement?



 Resettlement is the selection and transfer of refugees from a country in which
they have sought protection to a third country. This differs from the asylum
process, whereby individuals who have reached the United States are granted
protection. Resettlement can take 18-24 months or longer from referral to
arrival in the United States.

 Who Do We Resettle?



 The United States will admit 85,000 refugees from around the world in Fiscal
Year 2016:



     Roughly 34,000 will come from the Near East and South Asia (of which at
least 10,000 will be from Syria);

     25,000 from Africa;

     13,000 from East Asia;

     4,000 from Europe;

     3,000 from Latin America and the Caribbean; and

     An unallocated reserve of 6,000 will provide the flexibility needed to
respond to emergent situations. Entering the U.S. Resettlement System



 Refugees are usually referred to the United States for resettlement by the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Under the guidance of the U.S.
Department of State's Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, nine
Resettlement Support Centers (RSC) prepare refugee applications for U.S.
resettlement consideration. The RSCs collect biographic and other information
from the applicants to prepare for the adjudication interview and for security
screening.

 Refugee Screening Process



 Enhanced security screening is a joint responsibility of the Department of
State and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and includes the
participation of the National Counterterrorism Center and the Department of
Defense.



 Within DHS, the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) reviews each
application and conducts an in-person interview with each applicant.
USCIS-approved refugees also undergo a health screening to prevent those with a
contagious disease from entering the country. The RSC then requests a
&ldquo;sponsorship assurance&rdquo; from a U.S.-based resettlement agency that
is experienced in providing assistance to newly arrived refugees. Finally, the
International Organization for Migration facilitates transportation to the
United States. Most refugees also undergo a brief cultural orientation course
prior to departure for the United States.

 Starting a New Life



 Once in the U.S., refugees seize the chance for a new beginning. With the
assistance of more than 300 local resettlement agencies, refugees put down
roots, attend school, get jobs, pay taxes and become productive members of their
communities. They start businesses and make our communities more vibrant and
diverse. Refugees share many of America's values: courage, resilience, openness
to new experiences, and the determination to rebuild their lives in a new land.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusme.com

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              333 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            November 2, 2015 Monday

Washington: Refugee Resettlement In The United States

LENGTH: 613 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: U.S Department of State Diplomacy in Action has issued the
following news release:



 The U.S. Refugee Admissions Program embodies the United States' values of
compassion, generosity, and leadership in serving vulnerable populations. The
United States has welcomed more than three million refugees since 1975, helping
them build new lives in all 50 states.



 Identifying Refugees



 Refugees survive terrible ordeals: torture, upheaval, perilous journeys, and
tremendous loss. They are persecuted because of their race, religion,
nationality, political opinion, or membership in a particular social group. The
vast majority of the nearly 20 million refugees in the world today will receive
support in the country to which they fled. A small number, particularly the most
vulnerable, will be resettled in a third country, such as the United States.

 What is Resettlement?



 Resettlement is the selection and transfer of refugees from a country in which
they have sought protection to a third country. This differs from the asylum
process, whereby individuals who have reached the United States are granted
protection. Resettlement can take 18-24 months or longer from referral to
arrival in the United States.

 Who Do We Resettle?



 The United States will admit 85,000 refugees from around the world in Fiscal
Year 2016:



     Roughly 34,000 will come from the Near East and South Asia (of which at
least 10,000 will be from Syria);

     25,000 from Africa;

     13,000 from East Asia;

     4,000 from Europe;

     3,000 from Latin America and the Caribbean; and

     An unallocated reserve of 6,000 will provide the flexibility needed to
respond to emergent situations. Entering the U.S. Resettlement System



 Refugees are usually referred to the United States for resettlement by the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Under the guidance of the U.S.
Department of State's Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, nine
Resettlement Support Centers (RSC) prepare refugee applications for U.S.
resettlement consideration. The RSCs collect biographic and other information
from the applicants to prepare for the adjudication interview and for security
screening.

 Refugee Screening Process



 Enhanced security screening is a joint responsibility of the Department of
State and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and includes the
participation of the National Counterterrorism Center and the Department of
Defense.



 Within DHS, the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) reviews each
application and conducts an in-person interview with each applicant.
USCIS-approved refugees also undergo a health screening to prevent those with a
contagious disease from entering the country. The RSC then requests a
&ldquo;sponsorship assurance&rdquo; from a U.S.-based resettlement agency that
is experienced in providing assistance to newly arrived refugees. Finally, the
International Organization for Migration facilitates transportation to the
United States. Most refugees also undergo a brief cultural orientation course
prior to departure for the United States.

 Starting a New Life



 Once in the U.S., refugees seize the chance for a new beginning. With the
assistance of more than 300 local resettlement agencies, refugees put down
roots, attend school, get jobs, pay taxes and become productive members of their
communities. They start businesses and make our communities more vibrant and
diverse. Refugees share many of America's values: courage, resilience, openness
to new experiences, and the determination to rebuild their lives in a new land.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusme.com

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              334 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Times (Kigali)

                               November 01, 2015

Refugees in Kiziba Camp to Access U.S. Varsity Education

BYLINE: Theogene Nsengimana

LENGTH: 613 words


Refugees in Kiziba refugee camp in Karongi District are to benefit from free
United States accredited degree programme courtesy of Kepler Rwanda; a nonprofit
University program opened a branch in the camp on Friday.

The programme will use the blended learning method and is funded by IKEA
foundation, a Dutch based philanthropic group.

Chris Hedrick, Kepler's Chief Executive Officer, said the program was not only
launched to help the refugees improve academically, but to also help them
prepare for life out of the camp.

"We believe that all refugee children should have the right to a quality
education and ideally, but also the opportunity to access higher education when
desired. We are assisting them prepare for a life outside the camp," he said.

"Together with our partners, we aim both to support these incredibly high
potential students to improve academically, and also to develop a model that can
be useful in refugee camps around the world. We are delighted to expand our work
in Rwanda where the leadership embraces innovation designed to expand access to
affordable, high quality education and career preparation for motivated and
deserving students".

The programme in Kiziba camp started with an initial intake of 25 refugees with
additional intakes of the same size envisaged for 2016 and 2017. Upon
graduation, students will be awarded a US accredited university degree with
Kepler's credentialing partner Southern New Hampshire University.

Beneficiaries thrilled with the program

Abraham Murutampunzi, one of the initial intakes in the programme, said the
chance will help him to improve life.

"Life is not easy in the camp as we only survive on the support of UNHCR and
partners. As I am granted this chance to pursue entrepreneurship related
courses, I will use the knowledge to venture into entrepreneurship to change the
living conditions for both myself and my family. It is an opportunity for me to
expand my mind and look on how to implement my dreams to own a business," he
said.

"This is a chance for us to expand our knowledge and skills which will open new
horizons for us. I wish the programme would be expanded further in the coming
years", said Hyacinthe Kazege, another student.

Azam Saber, a representative of the the United Nations' High Commission for
Refugees (UNHCR) in Rwanda, challenged the beneficiaries to take advantage of
the chance granted to them to turn their dreams into reality.

"This is the first ever university to open a programme in a refugee camp
worldwide. It is then an occasion for you to exploit your potentials that have
been inhibited by the situation you are living in. If you believe that you need
to have a bright future, use this chance to shape it from now," he advised the
students.

"Most powerful leaders in Africa and elsewhere on the globe once experienced
life in refugee camps. I am really convinced that you also can make it", he told
the refugees

Seraphine Mukantabana, the Minister for Disaster Management and Refugee Affairs
(MIDIMAR) said the Kepler program was a milestone to the issue of tertiary
education for refugees in Rwanda.

"In addition to enabling refugees to have access to university education, it
will also open job opportunities for the beneficiaries in order to achieve
self-reliance," she noted.

"Our government wishes refugees to have access to all levels of formal education
and vocational skills trainings, because, we hope that knowledge is the most
important treasure that refugees will carry, if time comes for them to go back
home, or in case they get opportunity to go elsewhere in the world", Mukantabana
stated

Kiziba refugee camp hosts 17,155 refugees from the Democratic Republic of Congo.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              335 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                           October 31, 2015 Saturday

Guest commentary: U.S. has a greater responsibility to helps with refugee crisis

BYLINE: By Franklin T. Burroughs, guest commentary © 2015 Bay Area News Group

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 767 words


Since its founding, the United States has presented itself as a humanitarian and
immigrant nation. Emma Lazarus' sonnet mounted inside the pedestal of the Statue
of Liberty encapsulates the benevolent approach the U.S. has traditionally used
with immigrants when she says, "Give me your tired, your poor, Your huddled
masses yearning to be free."

Immigration has long been significant in the U.S. DNA.

The first migration to New England in 1620 involved a group of immigrants
fleeing what they feared would be persecution by the British government because
of their refusal to remain within the Church of England and their insistence on
a simpler, less structured faith and the formation of a separate church.

In the 1600s, no British citizen could legally divorce himself or herself from
the state-sponsored church.

Subsequent migrations to America have often been composed of downtrodden
citizens from nations and regions across the globe. The continents of origin
vary from Europe to the Americas, the countries from Albania to Mexico and the
West Indies.

Sometimes the governments were oppressing their citizens; at other times, the
immigrants were eager to improve their financial or social status and saw the
U.S.as the ideal place to accomplish their goals.

Between 1970 and 2013 the size of the immigrant population in the U.S.
skyrocketed and the immigrant share of total U.S. population tripled. The
immigrant population in 1970 was 9.6 million; in 2013, 41.3 million. The
immigrant share of total population in 1970 was 4.7 percent; in 2013, 13.1
percent.

The traditional U.S. humanitarian approach to immigration seems to have changed,
at least in relation to the current Middle East-North Africa crisis.

As reported in the Yale Global Online Magazine, the United Nations refugee
agency has estimated that more than 4 million Syrians are now refugees. Another
7 million are internally displaced, and about 50,000 have applied for political
asylum. Hundreds of thousands flee Libya and Yemen, and 5 million Palestinians
qualify for services from the U.N. Relief and Works Agency.

In Lebanon and Jordan, one-third of the residents are refugees. On June 3, Jie
Zong and Jeanne Batalova stated in an online article entitled "Middle Eastern
and North African Immigrants in the United States" that as of 2013 only 2.5
percent of the total immigrant population in the U.S. was from the Middle
East-North Africa region.

The Obama administration seems reluctant to commit to a large resettlement of
Middle Eastern-North African refugees in the United States.

In September, President Barack Obama announced that about 10,000 Syrians would
be accommodated during the next fiscal year which begins in July. The number
quoted is less than 10 percent of the total number of names submitted to the
administration by the United Nations.

According to Christi Parsons of the Tribune Washington Bureau, refugee
organizations have requested that the United States accommodate the needs of
about 100,000 Syrians, but the Obama administration has shown a reluctance to
commit to the request because of a lack of available funds. Congress has yet to
agree to provide the funds.

The administration's apparent reluctance to commit to the resettlement of a
larger number of Middle Eastern and North African refugees seems paradoxical
when considered within the context of the U.S. role in creating the current
regional conflict.

Whether intentional or through naivete, the U.S. played a significant role in
the overthrow of the shah of Iran and the establishment of the Islamic Republic
in 1979.

Subsequently, U.S. administrations were instrumental in the forcible removal
from power of Saddam Hussein of Iraq and the emergence of ISIS.

In the case of Saddam Hussein, the plan for his removal seemed deliberate even
though somewhat devious. The development of ISIS appeared to occur because of
the U.S. fear of the Soviet Union and its possible hegemony over the Middle
East.

Based strictly on U.S. government faux pas in the region, the U.S. should
increase its support of Middle East-North African migration to the United States
. Such an increase would positively reflect the content of the sonnet that
reads, "Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to be free."

Franklin T. Burroughs received his Ed.D. in Middle East studies and comparative
education from UCLA. He lived and worked in Iran, Saudi Arabia and Lebanon for
15 years and served as a liaison between the then-shah of Iran and President
Jimmy Carter. He is a member of the Social Justice Alliance of Contra Costa
County and a resident of Walnut Creek.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              336 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                           October 31, 2015 Saturday

Guest commentary: U.S. has a greater responsibility to helps with refugee crisis

BYLINE: By Franklin T. Burroughs, guest commentary © 2015 Bay Area News Group

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 767 words


Since its founding, the United States has presented itself as a humanitarian and
immigrant nation. Emma Lazarus' sonnet mounted inside the pedestal of the Statue
of Liberty encapsulates the benevolent approach the U.S. has traditionally used
with immigrants when she says, "Give me your tired, your poor, Your huddled
masses yearning to be free."

Immigration has long been significant in the U.S. DNA.

The first migration to New England in 1620 involved a group of immigrants
fleeing what they feared would be persecution by the British government because
of their refusal to remain within the Church of England and their insistence on
a simpler, less structured faith and the formation of a separate church.

In the 1600s, no British citizen could legally divorce himself or herself from
the state-sponsored church.

Subsequent migrations to America have often been composed of downtrodden
citizens from nations and regions across the globe. The continents of origin
vary from Europe to the Americas, the countries from Albania to Mexico and the
West Indies.

Sometimes the governments were oppressing their citizens; at other times, the
immigrants were eager to improve their financial or social status and saw the
U.S.as the ideal place to accomplish their goals.

Between 1970 and 2013 the size of the immigrant population in the U.S.
skyrocketed and the immigrant share of total U.S. population tripled. The
immigrant population in 1970 was 9.6 million; in 2013, 41.3 million. The
immigrant share of total population in 1970 was 4.7 percent; in 2013, 13.1
percent.

The traditional U.S. humanitarian approach to immigration seems to have changed,
at least in relation to the current Middle East-North Africa crisis.

As reported in the Yale Global Online Magazine, the United Nations refugee
agency has estimated that more than 4 million Syrians are now refugees. Another
7 million are internally displaced, and about 50,000 have applied for political
asylum. Hundreds of thousands flee Libya and Yemen, and 5 million Palestinians
qualify for services from the U.N. Relief and Works Agency.

In Lebanon and Jordan, one-third of the residents are refugees. On June 3, Jie
Zong and Jeanne Batalova stated in an online article entitled "Middle Eastern
and North African Immigrants in the United States" that as of 2013 only 2.5
percent of the total immigrant population in the U.S. was from the Middle
East-North Africa region.

The Obama administration seems reluctant to commit to a large resettlement of
Middle Eastern-North African refugees in the United States.

In September, President Barack Obama announced that about 10,000 Syrians would
be accommodated during the next fiscal year which begins in July. The number
quoted is less than 10 percent of the total number of names submitted to the
administration by the United Nations.

According to Christi Parsons of the Tribune Washington Bureau, refugee
organizations have requested that the United States accommodate the needs of
about 100,000 Syrians, but the Obama administration has shown a reluctance to
commit to the request because of a lack of available funds. Congress has yet to
agree to provide the funds.

The administration's apparent reluctance to commit to the resettlement of a
larger number of Middle Eastern and North African refugees seems paradoxical
when considered within the context of the U.S. role in creating the current
regional conflict.

Whether intentional or through naivete, the U.S. played a significant role in
the overthrow of the shah of Iran and the establishment of the Islamic Republic
in 1979.

Subsequently, U.S. administrations were instrumental in the forcible removal
from power of Saddam Hussein of Iraq and the emergence of ISIS.

In the case of Saddam Hussein, the plan for his removal seemed deliberate even
though somewhat devious. The development of ISIS appeared to occur because of
the U.S. fear of the Soviet Union and its possible hegemony over the Middle
East.

Based strictly on U.S. government faux pas in the region, the U.S. should
increase its support of Middle East-North African migration to the United States
. Such an increase would positively reflect the content of the sonnet that
reads, "Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to be free."

Franklin T. Burroughs received his Ed.D. in Middle East studies and comparative
education from UCLA. He lived and worked in Iran, Saudi Arabia and Lebanon for
15 years and served as a liaison between the then-shah of Iran and President
Jimmy Carter. He is a member of the Social Justice Alliance of Contra Costa
County and a resident of Walnut Creek.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              337 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 31, 2015 Saturday

Guest commentary: U.S. has a greater responsibility to helps with refugee crisis

BYLINE: By Franklin T. Burroughs, guest commentary © 2015 Bay Area News Group

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 767 words


Since its founding, the United States has presented itself as a humanitarian and
immigrant nation. Emma Lazarus' sonnet mounted inside the pedestal of the Statue
of Liberty encapsulates the benevolent approach the U.S. has traditionally used
with immigrants when she says, "Give me your tired, your poor, Your huddled
masses yearning to be free."

Immigration has long been significant in the U.S. DNA.

The first migration to New England in 1620 involved a group of immigrants
fleeing what they feared would be persecution by the British government because
of their refusal to remain within the Church of England and their insistence on
a simpler, less structured faith and the formation of a separate church.

In the 1600s, no British citizen could legally divorce himself or herself from
the state-sponsored church.

Subsequent migrations to America have often been composed of downtrodden
citizens from nations and regions across the globe. The continents of origin
vary from Europe to the Americas, the countries from Albania to Mexico and the
West Indies.

Sometimes the governments were oppressing their citizens; at other times, the
immigrants were eager to improve their financial or social status and saw the
U.S.as the ideal place to accomplish their goals.

Between 1970 and 2013 the size of the immigrant population in the U.S.
skyrocketed and the immigrant share of total U.S. population tripled. The
immigrant population in 1970 was 9.6 million; in 2013, 41.3 million. The
immigrant share of total population in 1970 was 4.7 percent; in 2013, 13.1
percent.

The traditional U.S. humanitarian approach to immigration seems to have changed,
at least in relation to the current Middle East-North Africa crisis.

As reported in the Yale Global Online Magazine, the United Nations refugee
agency has estimated that more than 4 million Syrians are now refugees. Another
7 million are internally displaced, and about 50,000 have applied for political
asylum. Hundreds of thousands flee Libya and Yemen, and 5 million Palestinians
qualify for services from the U.N. Relief and Works Agency.

In Lebanon and Jordan, one-third of the residents are refugees. On June 3, Jie
Zong and Jeanne Batalova stated in an online article entitled "Middle Eastern
and North African Immigrants in the United States" that as of 2013 only 2.5
percent of the total immigrant population in the U.S. was from the Middle
East-North Africa region.

The Obama administration seems reluctant to commit to a large resettlement of
Middle Eastern-North African refugees in the United States.

In September, President Barack Obama announced that about 10,000 Syrians would
be accommodated during the next fiscal year which begins in July. The number
quoted is less than 10 percent of the total number of names submitted to the
administration by the United Nations.

According to Christi Parsons of the Tribune Washington Bureau, refugee
organizations have requested that the United States accommodate the needs of
about 100,000 Syrians, but the Obama administration has shown a reluctance to
commit to the request because of a lack of available funds. Congress has yet to
agree to provide the funds.

The administration's apparent reluctance to commit to the resettlement of a
larger number of Middle Eastern and North African refugees seems paradoxical
when considered within the context of the U.S. role in creating the current
regional conflict.

Whether intentional or through naivete, the U.S. played a significant role in
the overthrow of the shah of Iran and the establishment of the Islamic Republic
in 1979.

Subsequently, U.S. administrations were instrumental in the forcible removal
from power of Saddam Hussein of Iraq and the emergence of ISIS.

In the case of Saddam Hussein, the plan for his removal seemed deliberate even
though somewhat devious. The development of ISIS appeared to occur because of
the U.S. fear of the Soviet Union and its possible hegemony over the Middle
East.

Based strictly on U.S. government faux pas in the region, the U.S. should
increase its support of Middle East-North African migration to the United States
. Such an increase would positively reflect the content of the sonnet that
reads, "Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to be free."

Franklin T. Burroughs received his Ed.D. in Middle East studies and comparative
education from UCLA. He lived and worked in Iran, Saudi Arabia and Lebanon for
15 years and served as a liaison between the then-shah of Iran and President
Jimmy Carter. He is a member of the Social Justice Alliance of Contra Costa
County and a resident of Walnut Creek.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              338 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                      IBNS

                      October 30, 2015 Friday 6:30 AM EST

UN agency warns of refugee crisis as women flee Central America and Mexico

BYLINE: India Blooms News Service

LENGTH: 495  words


New York, Oct 30 (IBNS): Women in Central America and Mexico are fleeing their
countries in rising numbers to escape a surge in deadly, unchecked gang
violence, fuelling a looming refugee crisis in the Americas that demands urgent
and concerted action by the States of the region, the United Nations refugee
agency is warning.

The violence being perpetrated by organized, transnational criminal groups in El
Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and certain parts of Mexico has become pervasive,
the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, Antnio Guterres, said in Washington D.C.,
as he issued a new report on the situation entitled Women on the Run. The
dramatic refugee crises we are witnessing in the world today are not confined to
the Middle East or Africa, Guterres continued. He added, We are seeing another
refugee situation unfolding in the Americas. This report is an early warning to
raise awareness of the challenges refugee women face and a call to action to
respond regionally to a looming refugee crisis. The Office of the UN High
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) is calling specifically on all countries in
Central and North America to recognize the growing refugee situation in the
region, to establish adequate capacity at borders to ensure the identification
of persons in need of international protection, and to move swiftly towards a
coordinated regional approach to this problem. According to UNHCR, Women on the
Run was based on interviews conducted with 160 women recently forced to flee
their homes in El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras known as the Northern
Triangle of Central America, or (NTCA) and parts of Mexico to escape growing
violence in their communities. They described in detail how criminal armed
groups terrorize populations to establish control over large areas of these
countries, and how women in particular are targeted by specific and extreme
forms of gender-based violence. Everything affects you because there, a woman is
worthless, explained Lana, one of the women interviewed for the report. It is as
though your life is not worth anything. They rape. There is no limit. There is
no authority. There is no one to stop them. While governments in the region have
made efforts to address root causes of violence, people reportedly continue to
flee. The region has some of the highest murder rates in the world, especially
of women. While the report finds that some of the women flee towards the United
States, many others escape to neighbouring states in Central America and Mexico
where applications for asylum from people fleeing the three NTCA countries and
parts of Mexico have skyrocketed thirteen-fold since 2008. According to
statistics by the United States Government, 82 per cent of 16,077 women from
these countries who were interviewed by US authorities in the last year were
found to have a credible fear of persecution or torture and were allowed to
pursue their claims for asylum in the country. Photo: Amy Stillman/IRIN

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2015 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

                              339 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 29, 2015 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Americas; Violence Creating Refugee Crisis, a Senior U.N. Official Warns

BYLINE: By ELISABETH MALKIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 137 words


The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said Wednesday that a refugee
crisis was looming in Central and North America as people flee unchecked gang
violence in parts of Mexico, El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras. ''The dramatic
refugee crises we are witnessing in the world today are not confined to the
Middle East or Africa,'' the high commissioner for Refugees, António Guterres,
said in Washington. ''We are seeing another refugee situation unfolding in the
Americas.'' Mr. Guterres spoke as he issued a report describing the particular
terror faced by women in those countries, which have some of the highest murder
rates in the world. Applications for asylum in the United States have more than
quadrupled since 2008, and they are also increasing in Central American
countries like Costa Rica and Nicaragua.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/29/world/americas/violence-creating-refugee
-crisis-a-un-commissioner-warns.html

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company

                              340 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                US Official News

                           October 22, 2015 Thursday

Washington: Alexander Leads Congressional Delegation Trip to Examine European
Refugee Crisis in Italy, Greece

LENGTH: 394 words

DATELINE: Lahore



    Washington: Office of the Senator Lamar Alexander, U.S Government has issued
the following news release:



 U.S. Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee Chairman Lamar
Alexander (R-Tenn.) announced Sunday that he and five other members of Congress
just wrapped up a visit to Italy and Greece after receiving a series of
in-country briefings on the humanitarian crisis Europe is facing from refugees
and migrants from the Middle East and Sub-Saharan Africa.





  Alexander was joined on the trip by U.S. Sens. Thad Cochran (R-Miss.), Mike
Enzi (R-Wyo.), Susan Collins (R-Maine), Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) and Dan Coats
(R-Ind.).



 Europe is currently facing the largest influx of refugees and migrants since
the end of Word War II. More than 600,000 migrants have come to Europe to this
point in 2015, according to the International Organization for Migration, and
have been arriving by boat to Italy, and by boat and land in Greece. Migrants
are also arriving by land in Hungary and other countries in Eastern Europe.



 During their trip, the lawmakers met with U.S. troops, military leaders,
political leaders and representatives from non-governmental organizations to
review regional issues and the refugee and migrant crisis. In Italy, the
lawmakers were briefed by U.S. military officials from the European and African
commands on the migrant and refugee crisis and military and diplomatic relations
in the region, as well as efforts related to addressing the Ebola crisis, the
search for Joseph Kony, and addressing extremist groups operating in Africa such
as Boko Haram. In Greece, the lawmakers welcomed the U.S.S. Winston S. Churchill
to port and were briefed on efforts to protect and promote U.S. interests in the
Mediterranean region.



 In addition to visiting with soldiers, sailors, airmen, and Marines from their
respective states, the Members met with Monsignor Florian Kolfhaus, Vatican
Director for North America; Paolo Gentiloni, Italian Minister of Foreign
Affairs; Nikolaos Pappas, Greece Minister of State; Panos Kammenos, Greece
Minister of Defense; representatives of the United Nations High Commission on
Refugees and the International Organization for Migration in both countries; and
Doctors of the World in Greece.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright2015Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              341 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 19, 2015 Monday

Washington: Alexander Leads Congressional Delegation Trip to Examine European
Refugee Crisis in Italy, Greece

LENGTH: 394 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: Office of the Senator Lamar Alexander, U.S Government has issued
the following news release:



 U.S. Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee Chairman Lamar
Alexander (R-Tenn.) announced Sunday that he and five other members of Congress
just wrapped up a visit to Italy and Greece after receiving a series of
in-country briefings on the humanitarian crisis Europe is facing from refugees
and migrants from the Middle East and Sub-Saharan Africa.





  Alexander was joined on the trip by U.S. Sens. Thad Cochran (R-Miss.), Mike
Enzi (R-Wyo.), Susan Collins (R-Maine), Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.) and Dan Coats
(R-Ind.).



 Europe is currently facing the largest influx of refugees and migrants since
the end of Word War II. More than 600,000 migrants have come to Europe to this
point in 2015, according to the International Organization for Migration, and
have been arriving by boat to Italy, and by boat and land in Greece. Migrants
are also arriving by land in Hungary and other countries in Eastern Europe.



 During their trip, the lawmakers met with U.S. troops, military leaders,
political leaders and representatives from non-governmental organizations to
review regional issues and the refugee and migrant crisis. In Italy, the
lawmakers were briefed by U.S. military officials from the European and African
commands on the migrant and refugee crisis and military and diplomatic relations
in the region, as well as efforts related to addressing the Ebola crisis, the
search for Joseph Kony, and addressing extremist groups operating in Africa such
as Boko Haram. In Greece, the lawmakers welcomed the U.S.S. Winston S. Churchill
to port and were briefed on efforts to protect and promote U.S. interests in the
Mediterranean region.



 In addition to visiting with soldiers, sailors, airmen, and Marines from their
respective states, the Members met with Monsignor Florian Kolfhaus, Vatican
Director for North America; Paolo Gentiloni, Italian Minister of Foreign
Affairs; Nikolaos Pappas, Greece Minister of State; Panos Kammenos, Greece
Minister of Defense; representatives of the United Nations High Commission on
Refugees and the International Organization for Migration in both countries; and
Doctors of the World in Greece.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              342 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 19, 2015 Monday

Arkansas: Impact of Refugees on Small Town America the Story of "Outcasts
United"

LENGTH: 337 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Little Rock: University of Arkansas, The State of Arkansas has issued the
following news release:



 Outcasts United: An American Town, a Refugee Team, and One Woman's Quest to
Make a Difference by New York Times reporter Warren St. John is this year's
University of Arkansas One Book, One Community selection.





 The fast-paced narrative tells the true story of refugees from wars in the
Middle East, Balkans and Africa who were re-settled in the small, &ldquo;All
American&rdquo; town of Clarkson, Georgia. The re-settlement was as wrenching
for the refugee families as it was for the townspeople. Soccer was a common link
for the younger refugees and their coach, a young Jordanian woman, used that
link to keep her players in school and out of trouble, despite local opposition.
The youth soccer teams she led, known as the Fugees, became a symbol of the
turmoil and change for both the refugees and the Clarkson community.



 In a video message to the campus interim Chancellor Dan Ferritor has encouraged
everyone to read &ldquo;a book that tells stories and raises issues - issues as
relevant for our community as they are for countless places in America.&rdquo;



 Elizabeth Young, associate professor in the School of Law, has scheduled an
event to expand on the themes of Outcasts United. She will screen the recent
film The Good Lie, starring Reese Witherspoon, about a group of Sudanese
refugees resettled in Kansas City and the employment agency counselor who
changes their lives. The film will be shown at 4 p.m. Thursday, Oct. 22 in the
E.J. Ball Courtroom, room 240. Young will lead a discussion after the film.



 Outcasts United author Warren St. John will visit the U of A to give a free
public lecture and sign books from 6:30 to 8:30 p.m. Thursday, Nov. 5, in the
Donald W. Reynolds Auditorium. He will also speak to Fayetteville Public Library
book club members at 11:30 a.m. Friday, Nov. 6.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              343 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                            October 18, 2015 Sunday

The problems of the refugees

BYLINE: Liaqat Baloch

SECTION: Vol. XXIX No. 227

LENGTH: 965  words


A picture that has shocked the whole world is the picture of Aylan. It has
become a symbol of the problems of refugees. It is not only a picture of the
dead body of a child but it is the picture of selfishness. Today refugees are
facing serious problems in Europe, Asia, Middle East and Central Asia. The
Muslim communities of Kashmir, Burma and Palestine are destroyed. Now millions
of the Muslims of Iraq, Syria and Yemen are trying to enter in Europe and other
countries. They are being cruelly treated by the police and army on the borders.

The world knows that every kind of dangerous weapons are prepared in America and
Europe. These weapons are sold in different countries. Conspiracies are made to
have supremacy in different countries. Civil war is encouraged there. People are
compelled to leave their homeland. They do not have anything to eat. No place to
live. No clean water. They want to live. But where they should go?

The deaths of refugees are being reported in international media daily. But no
solution is being found to this problem. There are millions of migrants in the
world. According to an estimation 2 crore migrants and 3 crore IDPS belong to
South Asia, Central Asia, Central Africa, West Africa, South Africa, North
Africa, Middle East, South West Asia, East Asia and Pacific, Western Europe,
South Eastern Europe, North Western and Central Europe, North America and
Carribean, and Latin America. Alarge number of migrants and IDPS belong to
Pakistan, Afghanistan, Occupied Kashmir, Syria, Iraq and African countries. In
Middle East millions of people are leaving their houses to save their lives. Is
it not a cruelty that 4 million Palestinians and 4 lac Pakistanis that have been
restricted in Bangladesh are not included in IDPS. No one is there to help them.

Muslim society and Muslim countries have accepted a large number of refugees.
Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Iran, Turkey, UAE and other countries have accepted a
large number of refugees. But when these refugees tried to have shelter in
European countries; they sealed their borders. Therefore, Pope Francis appealed
them to open their borders for these homeless people. This appeal made little
effect.

There are 9 camps of refugees in different countries. These people have become a
victim of racial prejudice, religious and political tension.

They were forced to leave their homes. According to a report of UNHCR almost 20
million people are refugees and 30 million people are homeless in their own
countries. UNO, America, European countries and Islamic world should have a
lesson from the destruction of humanity in the past.

The whole world is turning into hell gradually. War on international level,
imposition of personal agenda forcefully and decisions on personal liking and
disliking everything should be banned. The international disputes should be
resolved according to the rules of justice. It is important to solve the
problems of refugees. The human issue must be considered as a human issue. The
policies which compel the people to leave their houses and country must be
changed. The world should be free from war, terrorism, extremism and
intolerance. But what is the solution?

Peace should be the main agenda of everyone in the world, so that people can get
rid of cruelty, injustice and intolerance. All international powers and
institutions should understand that terrorism, hatred, prejudice and disputes
among religions are because of double standard.

Measures should not be taken according to personal liking. There should not be
any discrimination because of religion. The human and social rights and freedom
of every person should be respected.

Democracy is the best system of governing the humans. Therefore, the style and
attitude should also be democratic. The dominant majority of Islamic countries
believe in the teachings of Islam, Quran and Sunnah. The life style and ruling
style of Muslims which is based on the teachings of Islam should not be called
as political Islam. This type of attitude creates differences. It should be
condemned.

Muslim world is in great crisis these days. Although foreign conspiracies and
foreign agenda is playing a vital role, but the division of Shia, Sunni, Wahhabi
and selfishness of Muslim rulers is also responsible. The problems of Syria,
Iraq, Afghanistan, Kashmir, Bangladesh and Libya are only because of this reason
that Pakistan, Turkey, Iran and Saudi Arabia are not on one page. The number of
refugees and homeless will continue to increase if Islamic world will not accept
its responsibility.

UNO cannot play its role with justice if it will keep on following the dictation
of America and Europe. Social justice and human rights of every member country
should be accepted.OIC which is the representative of Islamic world has become a
soulless and isolated institution.

Important Muslim countries should play a positive role. They should conduct the
meeting of Muslim leaders and give priority to the problems of Muslim world.

The refugees are facing severe problems. Following measures should be taken in
this regard. A large number of women and children are included in IDPS. The
necessities of women and education of children should be addressed firstly.
Supply of food and clean water is a great challenge. Corruption has deprived the
IDPS from these facilities. Medical should be free for them. IDPS are having a
lot of psychological problems due to insecurity. They should be given
self-respect. Human smuggling is also a severe problem. It is a great task for
all countries.

It is one of the important reasons of migration. Human rights must be protected
all over the world. The system of returning back to their homes should be made
better. Refugees should be settled in some other country. UNO can play an
important in this regard.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 Nawai Waqt Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              344 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 16, 2015 Friday

FEDERAL REGISTER: Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal
Year 2016

LENGTH: 648 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: Office of the Federal Register has issued the following notice:



    Presidential Documents Federal Register / Vol. 80 , No. 200 / Friday,
October 16, 2015 / Presidential Documents [[Page 62433]] Presidential
Determination No. 2015-14 of September 29, 2015 Presidential Determination on
Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2016 Memorandum for the Secretary of State In
accordance with section 207 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (the ``Act'')
(8 U.S.C. 1157), and after appropriate consultations with the Congress, I hereby
make the following determinations and authorize the following actions: The
admission of up to 85,000 refugees to the United States during Fiscal Year (FY)
2016 is justified by humanitarian concerns or is otherwise in the national
interest; provided that this number shall be understood as including persons
admitted to the United States during FY 2016 with Federal refugee resettlement
assistance under the Amerasian immigrant admissions program, as provided below.

The admissions numbers shall be allocated among refugees of special humanitarian
concern to the United States in accordance with the following regional
allocations; provided that the number of admissions allocated to the East Asia
region shall include persons admitted to the United States during FY 2016 with
Federal refugee resettlement assistance under section 584 of the Foreign
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act of 1988,
as contained in section 101(e) of Public Law 100-202 (Amerasian immigrants and
their family members): Africa.................................................
25,000 East Asia.............................................. 13,000 Europe and
Central Asia................................ 4,000 Latin America/
Caribbean................................ 3,000 Near East/South
Asia................................... 34,000 Unallocated
Reserve.................................... 6,000 The 6,000 unallocated refugee
numbers shall be allocated to regional ceilings, as needed. Upon providing
notification to the Judiciary Committees of the Congress, you are hereby
authorized to use unallocated admissions in regions where the need for
additional admissions arises. Additionally, upon notification to the Judiciary
Committees of the Congress, you are further authorized to transfer unused
admissions allocated to a particular region to one or more other regions, if
there is a need for greater admissions for the region or regions to which the
admissions are being transferred. Consistent with section 2(b)(2) of the
Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, I hereby determine that assistance
to or on behalf of persons applying for admission to the United States as part
of the overseas refugee admissions program will contribute to the foreign policy
interests of the United States and designate such persons for this purpose.
Consistent with section 101(a)(42) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(42)), and after
appropriate consultation with the Congress, I also specify that, for FY 2016,
the following persons may, if otherwise qualified, be considered refugees for
the purpose of admission to the United States within their countries of
nationality or habitual residence: a. Persons in Cuba b. Persons in Eurasia and
the Baltics [[Page 62434]] c. Persons in Iraq d. Persons in Honduras, Guatemala,
and El Salvador e. In exceptional circumstances, persons identified by a United
States Embassy in any location You are authorized and directed to publish this
determination in the Federal Register.



                     (Presidential Sig.)



                 THE WHITE HOUSE,



                     Washington, September 29, 2015



 [FR Doc. 2015-26493

 Filed 10-15-15; 8:45 am]

 Billing code 4710-10-P



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              345 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 16, 2015 Friday

FEDERAL REGISTER: Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal
Year 2016

LENGTH: 648 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: Office of the Federal Register has issued the following notice:



    Presidential Documents Federal Register / Vol. 80 , No. 200 / Friday,
October 16, 2015 / Presidential Documents [[Page 62433]] Presidential
Determination No. 2015-14 of September 29, 2015 Presidential Determination on
Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2016 Memorandum for the Secretary of State In
accordance with section 207 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (the ``Act'')
(8 U.S.C. 1157), and after appropriate consultations with the Congress, I hereby
make the following determinations and authorize the following actions: The
admission of up to 85,000 refugees to the United States during Fiscal Year (FY)
2016 is justified by humanitarian concerns or is otherwise in the national
interest; provided that this number shall be understood as including persons
admitted to the United States during FY 2016 with Federal refugee resettlement
assistance under the Amerasian immigrant admissions program, as provided below.

The admissions numbers shall be allocated among refugees of special humanitarian
concern to the United States in accordance with the following regional
allocations; provided that the number of admissions allocated to the East Asia
region shall include persons admitted to the United States during FY 2016 with
Federal refugee resettlement assistance under section 584 of the Foreign
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act of 1988,
as contained in section 101(e) of Public Law 100-202 (Amerasian immigrants and
their family members): Africa.................................................
25,000 East Asia.............................................. 13,000 Europe and
Central Asia................................ 4,000 Latin America/
Caribbean................................ 3,000 Near East/South
Asia................................... 34,000 Unallocated
Reserve.................................... 6,000 The 6,000 unallocated refugee
numbers shall be allocated to regional ceilings, as needed. Upon providing
notification to the Judiciary Committees of the Congress, you are hereby
authorized to use unallocated admissions in regions where the need for
additional admissions arises. Additionally, upon notification to the Judiciary
Committees of the Congress, you are further authorized to transfer unused
admissions allocated to a particular region to one or more other regions, if
there is a need for greater admissions for the region or regions to which the
admissions are being transferred. Consistent with section 2(b)(2) of the
Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962, I hereby determine that assistance
to or on behalf of persons applying for admission to the United States as part
of the overseas refugee admissions program will contribute to the foreign policy
interests of the United States and designate such persons for this purpose.
Consistent with section 101(a)(42) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(42)), and after
appropriate consultation with the Congress, I also specify that, for FY 2016,
the following persons may, if otherwise qualified, be considered refugees for
the purpose of admission to the United States within their countries of
nationality or habitual residence: a. Persons in Cuba b. Persons in Eurasia and
the Baltics [[Page 62434]] c. Persons in Iraq d. Persons in Honduras, Guatemala,
and El Salvador e. In exceptional circumstances, persons identified by a United
States Embassy in any location You are authorized and directed to publish this
determination in the Federal Register.



                     (Presidential Sig.)



                 THE WHITE HOUSE,



                     Washington, September 29, 2015



 [FR Doc. 2015-26493

 Filed 10-15-15; 8:45 am]

 Billing code 4710-10-P



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              346 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 14, 2015 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A World Awash in Desperate Refugees

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 592 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Refugees, Stuck in Grinding U.S. Process, Wait and Hope'' (news article,
Oct. 11):

The United States could meet its goals and resettle far more refugees from
Syria, Iraq and other parts of the Middle East in the coming years if it
reformed its process for screening refugees for national security concerns.

That process, known innocuously as the Controlled Application Review and
Resolution Program of the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, is
not only inefficient -- resulting in the reported delays of up to two years to
process a refugee resettlement application -- but also ineffective and
discriminatory.

The program relies heavily on profiling criteria, like national origin,
languages spoken and professional expertise, to label applicants as possible
''national security concerns'' and bar them from resettling as refugees in the
United States.

Far from weeding out would-be terrorists, the program weeds out legitimate
refugees. Increasing the quota of refugees the United States will accept for
resettlement means little, so long as we cannot meet that quota because of the
current screening process.

It is imperative that the government reform that process to ensure that genuine
refugees can expeditiously reach American shores.

JENNIE PASQUARELLA

Los Angeles

The writer is a staff lawyer at the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern
California.

To the Editor:

Thanks to Sonia Nazario for documenting the experiences of the Pérez family
fleeing Honduras and hoping to find safety in the United States (''Refugees at
Our Door,'' Sunday Review, Oct. 11).

As a human rights observer and an international election observer in Honduras, I
know that the violence they experienced in their country is widespread and
occurs with impunity because of the complicity of the Honduran government.

Assaults on Central Americans passing through Mexico that Ms. Nazario describes
are also well known to those of us who volunteer with humanitarian organizations
in Arizona, by the accounts we hear from the migrants we serve.

The fact that our government bears significant responsibility for the violence
that the Pérez family and so many others confront in Honduras and Mexico is
painful. Ours was the only government to accept the legitimacy of the 2009
military coup in Honduras. The resulting government, which remains in power by
means of a flawed election, continues with United States political and financial
support.

The article brings to light ugly truths that all Americans need to know. And
those of us who have come to know these refugees, and to respect their immense
courage, want them to be understood and welcomed here.

LOIS MARTIN

Tucson

To the Editor:

As migrants from the Middle East and North Africa continue to pour into Western
Europe, increasingly through ''back door'' portals (''Why Are Migrants in the
Arctic, on Bikes? Path Leads to Europe,'' front page, Oct. 10), other countries
besides Germany and Sweden that are (or will be) ''labor short'' over the next
20 years -- like China, Japan, Russia and South Korea -- should open their doors
to those fleeing persecution and war-related violence, at least temporarily.

This would be mutually beneficial: It would alleviate the impending labor
shortages in these countries to the benefit of their national economies, and
would offer much-needed relief to the desperate refugees washing up on Europe's
shores.

IRA SOHN

Upper Montclair, N.J.

The writer is a professor of economics and finance at Montclair State
University.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/14/opinion/a-world-awash-in-desperate-
refugees.html

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company

                              347 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                Tampa Bay Times

                             October 4, 2015 Sunday
                             Politifact.com Edition

DONALD TRUMP: SYRIAN REFUGEES POTENTIALLY HEADED TO U.S. ARE MOSTLY MEN

BYLINE: JOSHUA GILLIN

SECTION: POLITIFACT

LENGTH: 1396 words


Among Syrian refugees, "there aren't that many women, there aren't that many
children."

- Donald Trump on Sunday, October 4th, 2015 in an interview on ABC "This Week"

* * *

THE RULING: FALSE

Donald Trump is now against bringing any Syrian refugees to the United States,
saying he has concerns about how many able-bodied men seem to be fleeing the
war-torn nation.

This Week host George Stephanopoulos asked Trump on Oct. 4, 2015, why he told a
New Hampshire crowd he would send refugees back to Syria should he win the
presidency. Trump had previously said he would accept some Syrian refugees for
humanitarian reasons.

"The migration was strange to me because it seems like so many men," Trump
answered. "There aren't that many women, there aren't that many children. It
looked like mostly men and they looked like strong men. These looked like
physically strong people. And I'm saying, 'Where are all the women? Where are
all the children?' "

Stephanopoulos told Trump that half the refugees are children, which led the
billionaire to shift gears and question why the United States was planning to
take in so many refugees.

Trump's description of Syrian refugees as not being many children and women
didn't sound quite right to us, so we decided to check out it out.

It appears Trump was confusing his talking point over a couple of different
issues.

Registered refugees vs. sea arrivals

In the interview, Trump started talking about how he heard America was accepting
3,000 refugees, then 10,000, and "now I hear we want to take in 200,000."

Trump said, "We don't know where they're coming from, we don't know who they
are. They could be ISIS. It could be the great Trojan Horse. I mean this could
be one of the great Trojan Horses ever since the original."

His campaign did not get back to us to clarify his remarks, but to us and
experts we consulted, his answer sounds like he had a different refugee
population in mind altogether.

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees registers and tracks Syrian
refugees in camps spread over several nations, including Turkey, Lebanon,
Jordan, Iraq and North African countries. According to numbers we accessed on
Oct. 4, the total comes to more than 4 million.

Of those 4 million, 50.3 percent are female, and 51.1 percent are children (boys
and girls) 17 years old or younger. In all, only 23.5 percent of refugees across
the Middle East and North Africa being counted by the U.N. were men older than
18.

So that settles that argument, right? Not really. Geoffrey Mock, Syrian country
specialist for Amnesty International USA, says Trump's anecdote may have been
referring to Europe's mass influx of refugees and migrants, not the
U.N.-registered refugees in camps that Stephanopoulos was asking about.

"This is a complicated issue, and Trump is right to my mind on a few points, but
he's messing up situations, confusing them terribly so his overall point is way
off base," Mock said.

Trump likely meant so-called "sea arrivals," refugees and migrants who cross the
Mediterranean Sea to continental Europe. The U.N. counts almost 534,000 people
who have crossed into Europe this year, with almost 3,000 dying during the
journey. To Trump's point, 69 percent of sea arrivals are men, and these are the
people dominating headlines about the humanitarian crisis in Europe.

Of those 534,000, about 55 percent of them are from Syria. The rest are from
across Asia and Africa, from places like Eritrea, Afghanistan and Sudan. These
people are not the same as Syrians in registered refugee camps. But as Trump
warned, some do claim to be from Syria and are not, and many are indeed
undocumented, experts told PolitiFact.

But the problem with Trump's statement is that none of the majority-male
refugees and migrants in Europe are coming to the United States.

Refugee resettlement

We can't confirm where Trump got his 200,000-refugee number, but it may refer to
Secretary of State John Kerry's announcement in September that the U.S. would
accept 85,000 worldwide refugees in 2016, up from 70,000. In 2017, that number
would expand to 100,000, for a total of 185,000 refugees over two years.

To add another wrinkle to Trump's already confusing claims, those won't all be
Syrian refugees, but rather refugees from all over the world. Kerry did say some
of the expansion was to accommodate Syrians, but there was no indication how
many.

The U.N. has said 10 percent, or about 400,000, of the Syrian refugees in camps
need to be resettled. President Barack Obama announced that in fiscal year 2016
(through Sept. 30), the United States would accept at least 10,000 refugees from
Syria.

Those 10,000 aren't necessarily the type of people who would be ISIS operatives
as Trump fears, according to Mock.

"The priorities go to torture survivors, people with serious medical conditions,
children and teens on their own, and women and children at risk," Mock said. The
people selected undergo screening by state agencies, including the Department of
Homeland Security. The process can take years.

That doesn't make for an efficient method of terrorizing the United States,
Foundation for Defense of Democracies senior fellow Daveed Gartenstein-Ross
said. While it's a legitimate concern that there are ways of beating the
screening process, he said, there would be more efficient ways for ISIS cells to
reach America than what Trump is fearing.

"Instead of sitting around hoping you win the refugee lottery and then wait
years, then pass the screening to get to America, it would be much easier for a
terrorist group to send a person through Europe or put them onto an airplane to
the United States," Gartenstein-Ross said. "If they could otherwise pass the
refugee screening process, they could certainly get on an airplane."

Moreover, the scenario Trump paints doesn't hold up to scrutiny once you take
into account that it misrepresents the parties involved.

"When Trump raises concerns about photos of young men among the refugees who
have made it to Europe, this has absolutely nothing to do with the
Obama-announced resettlement program that will draw upon the population
identified by the U.N. as being the most vulnerable among the 4 million Syrians
in their refugee camps, all of whom are identified and registered," Mock said.

Our ruling

Trump said "there aren't that many women, there aren't that many children" among
Syrian refugees.

It appears Trump is conflating two different sets of refugees: Those 534,000
reaching Europe by sea, who are mostly men, and the 4 million Syrians in U.N.
refugee camps, most of whom are women and children.

Only about 10,000 refugees in the camps are slated for resettlement in the
United States over the next year. Those making the perilous trip to Europe are
not.

The priority refugees from this group would be torture survivors, people with
serious medical conditions, unaccompanied children and teens, and women and
children at risk. Those factors, coupled with background screenings, suggest
they would likely not be ISIS operatives waiting to terrorize the United States.

Trump's assessment of the refugee situation is badly mangled. We rate his
statement False.

* * *

About this statement:

Published: Sunday, October 4th, 2015 at 6:57 p.m.

Researched by: Joshua Gillin

Edited by: Katie Sanders

Subjects: Foreign Policy, Immigration

Sources: This Week, Interview with Donald Trump, Oct. 4, 2015; Washington Post,
"President Obama directs administration to accept at least 10,000 Syrian
refugees in the next fiscal year," Sept. 10, 2015; Associated Press, "John
Kerry: U.S. to Accept 85,000 Refugees in 2016, 100,000 in 2017," Sept. 20, 2015;
The Hill, "Trump: If I win, I'll send Syrian refugees back," Sept. 30, 2015;
Washington Post, "Suspicious of Syrian refugees coming to the U.S.? Here's a
reality check.," Oct. 2, 2015; European Commission, Asylum statistics, accessed
Oct. 4, 2015; United Nations Refugee Agency, "Syria Regional Refugee Response:
Inter-agency Information Sharing Portal," accessed Oct. 4, 2015; United Nations
Refugee Agency, "Refugees/Migrants Emergency Response: Mediterranean," accessed
Oct. 4, 2015; Interview with Geoffrey Mock, Amnesty International USA Syrian
country specialist, Oct. 4, 2015; Interview with Daveed Gartenstein-Ross,
Foundation for Defense of Democracies senior fellow, Oct. 4, 2015; Interview
with Susan Martin, Georgetown University international migration professor, Oct.
4, 2015

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (2) PHOTO - Screengrab: Donald Trump says "there aren't that many
women, there aren't that many children" who make up the refugees from Syria on
ABC's "This Week" Oct. 4, 2015. The facts say otherwise.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              348 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 3, 2015 Saturday

An Open Letter to U.S. President Barack Obama & Congressional Leaders

LENGTH: 1017 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 New York City: The Department Medecins Sans Frontieres has issued the following
news release:



 The lifejacket pictured here belonged to one of more than 16,000 people rescued
on the Mediterranean Sea by Doctors Without Borders/M&eacute;decins Sans
Fronti&egrave;res (MSF) teams since May. This lifejacket, and the person who
wore it, are symbols not only of a chaotic and dangerous world, but also of the
failure of United Nations member states to meet their obligations to care for,
extend safe passage to, and consider the asylum claims of those who fear for
their safety from violence and oppression.





 People don't abandon their homes because they want to, and they know the risks
they will face on their journeys. It is out of desperation that they flee war
and torture, misery, poverty, and persecution. While delivering emergency
medical care across a wide range of countries and continents, Doctors Without
Borders sees firsthand the horrific conditions and suffering that drive people
to risk their lives for the chance of a better and safer future. In northern
Jordan, for example, which only a lucky few of the Syrians wounded daily in
besieged areas in and around Damascus (and elsewhere) can reach to access
medical care; in northern Afghanistan, where hundreds of people injured in
current fighting are pouring into our trauma center in Kunduz; in the Domeez
refugee camp in northern Iraq, where food vouchers were recently cut by
two-thirds; and in Kenya, where Somali refugees face the threat of violence and
forcible return.



 We have also established projects providing health care to refugees in several
European Union countries, and we have been running search and rescue operations
in the Mediterranean. Our staff therefore has a unique perspective of what
happens--physically, psychologically, morally--to people in need when safer
countries slam their doors shut, while public policy and debate focus on
economic fears, deterrence, and dehumanizing discourse about &ldquo;the
other.&rdquo;



 This crisis has rightly shocked the world. But the harrowing scenes we have all
seen are not confined to Europe and the Middle East. More than 60 million people
have been uprooted by conflict and chaos around the world today. From stateless
Rohingyas fleeing persecution in Myanmar and adrift on the Andaman Sea, to
families driven from their homes by wars in South Sudan and Central African
Republic, to people escaping violence and extortion in Central America--we are
witnessing a global crisis that is fundamentally challenging the willingness of
the international community to uphold its moral responsibilities to other human
beings.



 The United States has a proud tradition of welcoming refugees, and it has
apportioned billions of dollars in aid and assistance to lands around the world
affected by armed conflicts. But the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees, Antonio Guterres, has urged the US and other attendees of the UN
General Assembly in New York to do more, to play a greater, more active, and
more compassionate role in the ongoing refugee and migrant crises in Europe,
Africa, Asia, and North and Central America. What better backdrop than the
world's largest gathering of international leaders for the United States to once
more offer additional humanitarian support for people struggling to find safety,
increase the number of asylum claims it approves (including for civilians
wounded or tortured in conflict), and further ease cumbersome refugee
application processes so the most vulnerable can easily apply?



 President Obama: You took steps in this direction when you addressed the UN
General Assembly this past Monday. But announcing an intent to accept a certain
number of refugees falls far short of truly addressing the suffering faced by
millions fleeing violence and oppression.



 More than simply living up to obligations as a signatory to the 1967 protocol
on refugees--and its own proud history of providing shelter to millions of
foreign-born men, women, and children--the United States should take additional
actions to ensure hope, dignity, and humanitarian assistance for those uprooted
by war and strife. A courageous, committed United States can once again rise to
the occasion by making its voice heard, showing resolve, and joining the
European states that have opened their borders to large numbers of people in
need of refuge.



 By taking action and showing solidarity, the United States can reaffirm its
commitment to refugees the world over and can set an example to other
governments that have been unable to come to terms with the challenge at hand.
This could be a step towards dismantling recently erected barriers to safe
passage, which only drive those forced from their homes to take ever more
dangerous routes in search of sanctuary.



 The United States should encourage UN member states to ensure that lifesaving
and basic needs are met and that humanitarian appeals are fully funded,
reversing the shortfalls and cutbacks that have sadly become the norm in
humanitarian crises. Beyond this week's meeting in New York, we hope America's
political leaders will commit themselves to once again placing the country at
the heart of efforts to find solutions to this global crisis, as it was when
past generations of immigrants and refugees found shelter and opportunity in
this land. The United States can make an essential difference by ensuring safe
passage for people driven from their homes and by working to make the need for
their harrowing journeys obsolete.



 Doctors Without Borders has also encouraged European leaders to do more, and we
readily admit that we do not have all the answers. But we see the medical and
psychological consequences of the current situation, and we must bear witness to
the tragic human impact of a global system that shuts out people seeking to
escape violence, poverty, and misery--people who, like many Americans, past,
present, and future, seek only a safe place for themselves and their families.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusme.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              349 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                              The Herald (Harare)

                                October 01, 2015

Uncle Sam, Chief Culprit in Refugee Crisis [column]

BYLINE: Isdore Guvamombe

LENGTH: 774 words


Back in the village, in the land of milk, honey and dust or Guruve, war is
detested and war has horror stories. Men, women and children are displaced,
maimed, injured and killed unnecessarily. All and sundry live in perpetual fear
of death. The poor are more affected than the rich for the poor cannot afford
flying out of the country and renting new homes. Recently, this villager, the
son of peasants, flew past Europe in one of the longest journeys on earth to
Colombia. What touched this villager the most is the influx of refugees into
Europe from the warmonger troubled spots.

Over the last four years, as four million Syrian refugees poured into
neighbouring countries and slipped inexorably into poverty, millions others have
poured out of Libya, Iraq and Afghanistan, among others, courtesy of the
warmonger called the United States of America.

Today, Europe is stuck with a refugee crisis of an untold magnitude, all because
of the war triggered by the US in its bid to control the world and indeed to
steal and pocket all natural resources that matter. So huge and critical is the
problem that European Union ministers have mooted a plan to share the burden of
the millions of refugees, in a crisis that certainly could have been avoided.

The plan assigns each member state a number of people based on its economic
strength, population, unemployment and the number of asylum applications it has
approved over the last five years.

Syria's four years of civil war have left more than 240 000 people dead. More
than four million have left the country, and millions more are internally
displaced. According to the latest figures from the UN refugee agency, Syrians
made up 55 percent of the 521 000 refugees to have crossed the Mediterranean
bound for Europe this year to date.

Many others come from Iraq which, like Syria, has seen extremists overrun
massive areas from Afghanistan and other hotshots. Nearly 3 000 died or went
missing trying the often treacherous crossing. In the latest reminder of the
dangers, Greek police said on Wednesday that a woman and a child drowned off the
island of Lesbos after their boat sank, although 45 others were rescued.
Certainly this is not the world we want.

The political crisis in the world has not created itself but has been caused by
the United Sates in particular with the aid at times of tailing European
countries in their bid to influence the world's political scene. These powerful
outsiders start regime change projects to achieve their own goal, that of
accessing resources from rich but small nations. They sponsor wars as a way of
gaining access to these countries. There is an interesting tendency that almost
all these huge wars that maim and kill people are in countries that are rich in
minerals resources and oil. It is never about human rights or democracy, it is
about natural resources oil, gold and diamonds in particular.

Interestingly too, in almost all these cases, it is the United States of America
in the thick of things, yet no war has been fought on its ground. No refugees go
that far. The US has brazenly interfered in the internal matters of Iran, Iraq,
Egypt, Syria, Libya and Yemen, among others, and caused death and serious
destabilisation of those countries, all to gain access to the rich natural
resources.

The Libyan crisis is a good example of the dangers of the US's combative and
confrontational regime change antics, because as a result, Libya is broken into
pieces of governance, now stuck with a trailblazing civil war. While the Libyans
are killing each other and fighting for positions, the US is milking the country
dry of its oil. Stupid!

The other critical aftermath of the US's brazen interference are the refugees
scampering into Europe, off-loading from war zones. Europe now suffers because
of US actions and Europe is indeed in trouble and now has to share the burden of
refugees. The US does not care the least about rescuing the refugees but cares
for the mineral resources, cares about the oil and the huge money that follows.
The US itself does not want to spend on the refugees because it is afraid of its
taxpayers, who will demand accountability.

For Europe it is worse in that among the uncontrolled refugees are obviously
some terrorists, who once in Europe will work their way into terror attacks. So
far, it is estimated that more than 30 known dangerous terrorists have crossed
into Germany, disguised as refugees and the US does not care about it.

The risk is for Europe! It is obvious one day the US will use this finding as a
way of interfering in the internal matters of European countries, saying they
are following up on terrorists.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              350 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                             Kirkus Reviews (Print)

                           October 1, 2015, Thursday

CITY OF THORNS;
Nine Lives in the World's Largest Refugee Camp

SECTION: NONFICTION

LENGTH: 356  words


Former Human Rights Watch researcher Rawlence (Radio Congo: Signals of Hope from
Africa's Deadliest War, 2012) tells the distressing story of Kenya's vast Dadaab
refugee camp, where nearly 500,000 people fleeing civil war in nearby Somalia
live in a "teeming ramshackle metropolis" the size of Atlanta. Drawing on
hundreds of interviews conducted during a series of extended visits to Dadaab
since 2010, the author plunges readers into this hellish city of "mud, tents and
thorns," where three generations of displaced persons have lived amid
malnourishment and disease. With remarkable intimacy, Rawlence recounts the
stories of nine individuals, including Guled, a former child soldier, and his
wife, Maryam; Nisho, who finds work as a porter; and Muna, a beautiful,
independent woman who was one of the first Somalis to arrive in the camp.

As he weaves this complex, densely detailed narrative, Rawlence reveals the
humanity of these people in crisis who must struggle to survive in the
overcrowded camp-run by the Kenyan government with United Nations funding-where
bribery, rape, robbery, kidnapping, and cultural clashes are commonplace. While
Kenyan leaders demonize the refugees and want them out, local politicians,
military, and police all benefit from exploiting the refugees in Dadaab and in
Somalia. For their part, those living in the camp remain mired in "a culture
centered on leaving"; they long to resettle in Canada, the United States-any
country that will take them. "There was a crime here on an industrial scale,"
writes the author, who intersperses his story to cover outbursts of
international concern, evinced by visiting celebrities and TV reporters and
meetings of international and humanitarian-aid leaders striving to understand
the "refugee crisis." The disjuncture between the harsh realities of life in the
camps and the view from the boardrooms of world power centers is extraordinary
and damning. A significant, timely, and gloomy tale that reveals the human costs
of a growing world crisis.

Publication Date: 2016-01-05

Publisher: Picador

Stage: Adult

ISBN: 978-1-250-06763-0

Price: $26.00

Author: Rawlence, Ben

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                        Copyright 2015 Kirkus Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved

                              351 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Observer (Banjul)

                               September 30, 2015

U.S. Embassy Signs SSH, JTRF Grants

BYLINE: Omar Wally

LENGTH: 499 words


The embassy of the United States of America in Banjul, yesterday signed two
grants, the Ambassador's Special Self-Help (SSH) grant and Julia Taft Refugee
Fund (JTRF), at the American Corner, Comium building. 14 communities throughout
The Gambia were awarded these community-driven projects.

Officials say these grants are a small demonstration of the embassy and US
government's commitment to working with the people of The Gambia on community
development issues and welfare of refugees in The Gambia.

Marc Shaw, US Charge d' Affaires disclosed that the US embassy typically
contributes around US$40,000 each year to the Ambassador's Special Self-Help
Fund. "In recent years, these funds have been used for several projects that
have had a significant impact on the communities in which they are expected," he
said. One of such significant initiatives Shaw disclosed is in Sabi 'Lumoo'
(weekly market) in the Upper River Region where they built eight-bedroom
facility. The 'Lumoo' serves more than 3,000 traders coming from neighbouring
villages in The Gambia and Senegal.

In Munyagen village in North Bank Region, he revealed they provided 10 donkeys
and carts to help in agriculture production and transportation, while the
Changai Lower Basic School in Sameh District in CRR benefitted from furniture
for students and teachers through one of these projects.

Another project under these grants, Charge d' Affaires Shaw informed, provided
electricity and water supply for Kudang Health Centre, utilising a solar system.

In the past, he reported, they provided milling machines, clinics, wells and
garden projects to several communities and women in particular have benefited
immensely. "In 2014 US embassy and government allocated a total amount of
US$40,000 or around D1, 600,000 to support 12 self-help projects in The Gambia,"
he disclosed.

In 2015 Shaw went on, they allocated US$54,000, or around D2, 160,000 to support
14 self-help projects.

"The refugee commission of The Gambia has registered over 11,000 refugees in 81
communities along the border, and these are people who have survived primarily
on subsistence farming," he remarked.

The US diplomat said this year the US embassy and government will award a grant
for US$25,000 equivalent to D1, 000,000 to The Gambia Food and Nutrition
Association (GAFNA), which has committed to enhancing the lives of Gambians.

For his part, Lamin Sanneh, the deputy permanent secretary at the Ministry of
Lands and Regional Government, said the programme motivated and assisted
communities in terms of alleviating their poverty and also improving their
economic status as farmers and women.

DPS Sanneh said community-driven programmes are essential in the sense that they
allow the community to sit at their own level and think critically as to what
programmes and supports are needed.

"The milling machines, gardens and wells given to them will last long and also
give them support because they are community-driven projects that came from
them," he noted.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              352 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           September 25, 2015 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Editorial: U.S. refugee policy is not the least we can do, but it's close

BYLINE:  By the Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 699 words


For the first time in history, a pope addressed a joint session of the U.S.
Congress on Thursday. Pope Francis, as nicely as he could, admonished the United
States for not doing more for immigrants, whether they be from Mexico, Central
America or Syrian refugees.

"We must not be taken aback by their numbers, but rather view them as persons,
seeing their faces and listening to their stories, trying to respond as best we
can to their situation," the pope said. "To respond in a way which is always
humane, just and fraternal."

Well, that's one approach, but not the one Congress has taken. Immigrant-bashing
is de rigueur on the GOP presidential campaign trail, and the Obama
administration has been slow to respond to the Syrian refugee crisis.

This week Secretary of State John Kerry reminded the world that America is "a
land of second chances and a beacon of hope." The United States, he said, will
gradually open its borders to 30,000 more refugees over the next two years,
including 10,000 more Syrians.

That's not the least we could do. But it's pretty close.

It cannot charitably be described as adequate, given the times and the magnitude
of a crisis that U.S. polices in the Middle East had a lot to do with creating.
Certainly it falls short of hopes held by many progressives, including some
former Obama administration officials.

Then there are Republicans, who are tripping over each other to monger fear,
avoiding even a modest offer of help.

Congressional leaders and GOP presidential candidates have ratcheted up
anti-Muslim rhetoric. Some ignorantly equate all Muslims with terrorists and
ignore Christian immigrants who are part of the mix. They argue that nearby
nations should take all those fleeing warfare and worry that terrorists will
outfox the lengthy vetting the U.S. conducts of asylum seekers, a process that
takes up to two years to complete.

Such reactions belie America's history as a land of opportunity. This year, the
U.S. accepted about 70,000 refugees, most of them from Myanmar, Iraq and
Somalia. It wasn't enough. Iraqis who risked their lives to help U.S. soldiers
and our allies to oust Saddam Hussein still face an uphill struggle to win the
entrance lottery. Refugees from nations like Syria face even steeper odds.

Since the Syrian civil war began in 2011, with rebels seeking the ouster of
President Bashar Assad, the U.S. has admitted only 1,600 Syrians. To put that in
context: Lebanon, a nation of 4.5 million, is now home to 1.1 million Syrian
refugees, while Jordan, with a population of 6.5 million, has about 630,000 -
some now heading to Europe because of dwindling aid and work opportunities.

In total, some 4 million Syrians have left in the wake of chemical weapons and
bombs unleashed by Assad and Islamic State terrorists.

Of late, German Chancellor Angela Merkel appears to have the biggest heart,
aided by a post-World War II constitution that requires Germany to take in,
house, feed and generally provide for refugees of war and evil dictators.

The guilt of World War II is hard at work on behalf of today's refugees.
Migrants like the economic opportunities that Germany, Sweden, and much of
Europe seem to offer. Or at least it did until recently. Now the European Union
is shuddering from the complex tide of refugees.

The United Nations estimates that 80 percent of those entering Europe through
the Balkans are from Syria, Afghanistan and Iraq. The other 20 percent are from
equally harsh homelands including Pakistan, Bangladesh, Burundi and sub-Saharan
Africa.

A unified Europe is critical, both for migrants and for economic security. With
Hungary posting ads in Lebanon and Jordan warning migrants it will harshly treat
unauthorized entrants, the civilized world will rely on the European Union
having the strength to rise to the challenges, not shrink into sparring
separatists. U.S. exceptionalism does not apply here.

The best the U.S. can muster is an inadequate level of financial assistance to
care for displaced Syrians in other lands and a modest hike in immigration.
America's fears suggest the terrorists have won.

(This editorial was commissioned from freelance editorialists and edited by the
Post-Dispatch editorial board.)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:    EDITORIAL: U.S. REFUGEE POLICIES INADEQUATE

GRAPHIC:  Pope Francis addresses a joint meeting of Congress on Capitol Hill in
Washington, Thursday, Sept. 24, 2015, making history as the first pontiff to do
so. Listening behind the pope are Vice President Joe Biden and House Speaker
John Boehner of Ohio. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              353 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                          September 24, 2015 Thursday
                              THU REGIONAL Edition

What it means to be a refugee

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 594 words


I recently saw a sign on a door that said, "Refugees welcome." It was last week
when I was in Bosnia a country in which an estimated 100,000 people were killed,
and from which several hundred thousand became refugees themselves, during the
brutal Balkan wars in the first half of the 1990s.

Then I saw a huge poster along a highway that said, "Refugee Humanitarian
Concert." This was the next day driving into Croatia, parts of which were
bombarded with bullets and artillery during those recent years of conflict,
leaving 20,000 Croatian citizens dead, many murdered in a mad maelstrom of
ethnic cleansing.

Bosnia and Croatia are two of a half dozen nations whose wounds from that round
of religious and ethnic warfare still haven't wholly healed. Yet today, they are
in the middle of another mess, with Croatia the newest choke point in the flight
of desperate people from the wide arc of warfare in the Middle East, Asia and
Africa.

The people of these two nations understand what it means to be a refugee. What
it means to escape with your children, your spouse, your parents, the clothes on
your back and nothing more. They know what it means to run from hate and hunger
and enemies whose only grudge against you is the ethnicity in your DNA, or the
religion to which you were born. These are nations with a painfully recent
firsthand perspective on what it means to escape with your life if you are
lucky. And now, they have a firsthand view of other humans in the same
frightening flight.

I don't know what I would do if I were a leader in one of the many European
nations like these, besieged by citizens from another world, suddenly surging
like a raging river into mine. I'm glad to see the small signs I've seen that
there is at least some level of human compassion that transcends the practical
issues of how to actually handle this flood of people who have no home, no food,
no job, not even the basic language skills to survive in my society. Would I
make it my country's policy to welcome all who cross my borders? Like I said, I
don't know.

But what I do know is, my own good fortune of birth in the United States of
America wasn't thanks my superior intelligence or driving ambition or anything
else. It was thanks to my grandparents, all four of them, who courageously came
to America a hundred years ago in the boiling bellies of big boats because they
were fleeing from religious pogroms in Russia and Poland. They were refugees.

And I'm far from the only American like that. With everyone from Irish Americans
to Vietnamese Americans to Somali Americans to Hispanic Americans to African
Americans, chances are that your life in America has its roots in refugees. In
fact, today in our nation, there are citizens who fled from almost every corner
of the Earth because they would starve, or be oppressed, or enslaved, or killed
if they chose to stay. Even descendants of the Pilgrims are descendants of
refugees.

Despite seemingly impossible odds, our ancestors didn't turn back. And thanks to
the compassion of others who came before them, they found their footing and
acquired some skills and learned the language and eventually became thoroughly
American.

Today's refugees in Europe, coming in such a torrent, are sure to change the
very face of the societies in which they end up. It's not what anyone would
choose. But that was also said about your ancestors, and mine. In the end, our
society changed for the better. We are the proof.

Greg Dobbs of Evergreen was a correspondent for ABC News for 23 years, then for
HDNet television's "World Report."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              354 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           September 20, 2015 Sunday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Trying to control migration is like putting your finger in the tap

BYLINE: Madeleine Sumption

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 918 words


THE refugee crisis that has hit continental Europe this summer has generated an
intense debate about migration and the reasons behind it.

The sheer complexity of this migration has left onlookers bewildered. Why are
people moving in such large numbers and so suddenly? How can one distinguish
between "refugees" and "economic migrants"? Are government policies affecting
the flows of people coming to Europe? How should countries co-operate to address
a phenomenon that stretches across many national borders? The recent wave of
migration to Europe from Syria, Afghanistan and other countries across the
Middle East and Africa is unusual by recent historical standards - even though
only a fraction of the numbers who have come to the Continent have continued on
to Britain. In some respects, however, the crisis has illustrated features of
migration that are quite common across the world.

Migration is unpredictable and complex; it can't be explained by a single
driver. And while government policies are important, they are only part of what
shapes population movements.

When we think about international migration, we typically think about movement
from poorer countries to richer ones, particularly in Europe and North America.

The top destination for international migrants over the past decades has been
America, which has consistently issued about 1m green cards for permanent
residence each year - including 100,000-150,000 to successful asylum seekers and
resettled refugees. Several European countries - such as Britain, Germany,
France and Spain - are also among the world's top destinations.

This is only part of the story: the UN estimates that such migration from
"south" to "north" (defined to include Australia and New Zealand, as well as
Europe, North America and Japan) accounted for just 35% of the total numbers of
migrants living in other countries in 2013. Large flows of labour migration take
place between other regions: almost 5m migrants from India, for example, were
living in the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia in 2013, drawn there by the
massive construction boom. More than 4m have moved from former Soviet central
Asia to Russia since the collapse of the USSR.

In other cases the drivers have been conflict and crisis. Refugees make up a
small minority of international migrants worldwide, but these flows are
concentrated in particular regions, from the current displacement of people in
Syria to the movement from Sudan to South Sudan, Palestine to Jordan and
Afghanistan to Pakistan and Iran. The vast majority of the world's refugees live
in developing regions of the world and never make the journey to Europe other
wealthy destinations.

migration flows are exceptionally difficult to forecast, especially when involve
refugees or asylum seekers, since they depend how quickly crises develop and how
long it takes for them to be resolved. These events can move quickly.

Economic migration also responds to unforeseen developments. The economic crisis
in 2008, for example, led to a sharp decline in illegal immigration from Mexico
to the United States. It also caused a significant (but temporary) reduction in
European migration to Britain, while the recent weakness in many eurozone
economies appears to lie behind the rise in migration from longstanding EU
member states to the UK over the past two years.

Longer-term trends are not as volatile, and several suggest the demand for
international migration will remain high in coming decades. The world is growing
wealthier and more educated. Far from making people happier to stay where they
are, this can make them more able and determined to move in search of
opportunities.

The rise of a wealthy middle class in China, for example, has been accompanied
by a boom in emigration by skilled workers, for whom it is now easier and more
affordable. The numbers of Chinese nationals moving to America to study rose
from just under 20,000 in 2004 to more than 240,000 in 2014.

China is also the top source of wealthy individuals taking up residence or
citizenship in countries that offer special immigration routes for investors - a
phenomenon that was rare almost a decade ago but now involves many thousands of
people.

Globalisation and the ease with which information circulates has always played
an important role. Those who have successfully migrated have always helped those
wanting to follow in their footsteps by identifying opportunities. The internet,
increasingly accessed by smartphones, allows this information to be spread more
quickly and between looser networks of people, including among those who have
never even met.

Governments can influence these flows by changing immigration policy, but many
of the factors that prompt people to move country fall into other policy fields.
Europe's immigration departments, for example, have little control over more
fundamental drivers of the flows, particularly conflicts and crises.

Governments are under pressure to show they have answers to the concerns that
migration brings, in times of both crisis and stability. But it is important to
understand that many population flows are the result of fundamental social
trends that cannot be reshaped overnight.

Migration responds to policy but it is not a tap that can be turned on and off.
We cannot expect simple policies that produce quick results.

Madeleine Sumption is director of the Migration Observatory at Oxford University

ALMOST 5 MILLION MIGRANTS FROM INDIA WERE DRAWN TO THE UAE AND SAUDI 2013 BY THE
BUILDING BOOM

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              355 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           September 20, 2015 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Migrants cross continents to chase money; refugees don't go far

BYLINE: Madeleine Sumption

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 918 words


THE refugee crisis that has hit continental Europe this summer has generated an
intense debate about migration and the reasons behind it.

The sheer complexity of this migration has left onlookers bewildered. Why are
people moving in such large numbers and so suddenly? How can one distinguish
between "refugees" and "economic migrants"? Are government policies affecting
the flows of people coming to Europe? How should countries co-operate to address
a phenomenon that stretches across many different national borders? The recent
wave of migration to Europe from Syria, Afghanistan and other countries across
the Middle East and Africa is unusual by recent historical standards - even
though only a fraction of the numbers who have come to the continent have
continued on to Britain. In some respects, however, the crisis has illustrated
features of migration that are quite common across the world.

Migration is unpredictable, extremely complex and can't be explained by a single
driver. And while government policies are important, they are only part of what
shapes population movements.

When we think about international migration, we typically think about movement
from poorer countries to richer ones, particularly in Europe and North America.

The top destination for international migrants over the past decades has been
America, which has consistently issued about 1m green cards for permanent
residence per year - including 100,000 to 150,000 successful asylum seekers and
resettled refugees. Several European countries - such as Britain, Germany,
France and Spain - are also among the world's top destinations.

This is only part of the story: the UN estimates that such migration from
"south" to "north" (defined to include Australia and New Zealand, as well as
Europe, North America and Japan), accounted for just 35% of the total numbers of
migrants living in other countries in 2013. Large flows of labour migration take
place between other regions: almost 5m immigrants from India, for example, were
living in the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia in 2013, drawn there by the
massive construction boom. More than 4m have moved from former Soviet central
Asia to Russia since the collapse of the USSR.

In other cases, the drivers have been conflict and crisis. Refugees make up a
small minority of international migrants worldwide, but these flows are
concentrated in particular regions, from the current displacement of people in
Syria to the movement from Sudan to South Sudan, Palestine to Jordan, or
Afghanistan to Pakistan and Iran. The vast majority of the world's refugees live
in developing regions of the world and never make the journey to Europe or other
wealthy destinations.

Migration flows are exceptionally difficult to forecast, especially when they
involve refugees or asylum seekers, since they depend on how quickly crises
develop and how long it takes for them to be resolved. These events can move
quickly.

Economic migration also responds to unanticipated developments. The economic
crisis in 2008, for example, led to a sharp decline in illegal immigration from
Mexico to the United States. It also drove a significant (but temporary)
reduction in European migration to Britain, while the recent weakness in many
eurozone economies appears to lie behind the rise in migration from longstanding
EU member states to the UK over the past two years.

Longer-term trends are not as volatile, and several suggest the demand for
international migration will remain high in coming decades. The world is getting
wealthier and more educated. Far from making people happier to stay where they
are, this can make them more able to move in search of opportunities.

The rise of a wealthy middle class in China, for example, has been accompanied
by a boom in emigration by skilled workers, for whom it is now easier and more
affordable. The numbers of Chinese nationals moving to America to study rose
from just under 20,000 in 2004 to more than 240,000 in 2014.

China is also the top source of wealthy individuals taking up residence or
citizenship in countries that offer special immigration routes for investors - a
phenomenon that was rare almost a decade ago but now involves many thousands of
people.

Globalisation and the ease with which information circulates has always played
an important role. Those who have successfully migrated have always helped those
wanting to follow in their footsteps by identifying opportunities. The internet,
increasingly accessed by smartphones, allows this information to be spread more
quickly and between looser networks of people, including among those who have
never even met.

Governments can influence these flows by changing immigration policy, but many
of the factors that prompt people to move country fall into other policy fields.
Europe's immigration departments, for example, have little control over more
fundamental drivers of the flows, particularly conflicts and crises.

Governments are under pressure to show they have answers to the concerns that
migration brings, in times of both crisis and stability. But it is important to
understand that many population flows are the result of fundamental social
trends that cannot be reshaped overnight.

Migration responds to policy but it is not a tap that can be turned on and off.
We cannot expect simple policies that produce quick results.

Madeleine Sumption is director of the Migration Observatory at Oxford University

MIGRATION RESPONDS TO POLICY BUT IT IS NOT A TAP THAT CAN BE TURNED ON AND OFF

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              356 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 18, 2015 Friday

Russian TV talk show discusses Syria, refugees in Europe

LENGTH: 839 words


The 16 September edition of the weekly talk show "Politics" ("Politika") on
Russia's state-controlled Channel One was dedicated to what the presenter, Petr
Tolstoy, described as "the problem of refugees in Europe", and to the situation
in Syria. Anti-Western views common to Kremlin-controlled media were
predominant.

Refugees constitute a major threat to Europe

"In the last few days, the entire world was watching the situation in Europe
with concern," Tolstoy noted in his opening remarks. Co-presenter Aleksandr
Gordon noted that as long as Americans keep up with their policies, the numbers
of refugees in Europe will keep growing, before remarking: "I support the
destruction [Rus: ya za to, chtoby unichtozhit] of the United States of America.
"

First deputy chairman of the State Duma international affairs committee Leonid
Kalashnikov (CPRF) said that we should not feel sorry for the economic and
social problems that Europe will get after accepting all these refugees from
Africa and Middle East, as it was Europe itself that destroyed Libya, Iraq and
other countries.

Editor in chief of the Govorit Moskva radio station Sergey Dorenko said that
only the USA benefit from the controlled chaos that they started. He warned that
Europe's response to the migration crisis will bring Nazis to power in all
European countries.

Editor in chief of Svobodnaya Pressa website Sergey Shargunov said that through
the refugees, Americans "lash the tender flesh of Europe [Rus: bichuyut nezhnoye
myaso Yevropy]".

CIS Countries Institute director Konstantin Zatulin suggested that USA should
look at human-rights and democracy problems closer to home and maybe bomb
something in Mexico, install a president they like there, and remove the fence
on its Mexican border, then all of California will be Latin American.

Dean of the Higher School of Television under the Moscow State University
Vitaliy Tretyakov said that Europe provoked this crisis by its own "thickness
[Rus: tupoumiye]" as it got involved in the Middle East, probably due to urging
of the Americans. There is no doubt that Europe will perish, he added.

Polish political analyst Jakub Korejba, who writes for the Russian state news
agency Sputnik, noted that Arab migrants do not go to Arab or Muslim countries
as they lack democracy and level of life, they choose Europe as an attractive
place to live. The war in Syria was started not by Europe but by Syrian people
who opposed a bloody dictator [i. e. President Bashar al-Asad], he noted.

Syrian president to be defended by Russia

Tolstoy said that al-Asad was right to use force to disperse peaceful protests
in 2011, because "we saw how [deposed Ukrainian President Viktor] Yanukovych did
not suppress protests in Maydan and what that led to".

When US journalist Michael Bohm questioned al-Asad's democratic credentials,
Tolstoy asked: "You seriously think that one can come to power only through
elections, have you gone nuts on democracy?" He said that Americans should "not
force your standards on the others - there are monarchies, how did [British
Queen] Elizabeth II come to power?"

Chief correspondent of the Moscow bureau of the Syrian news agency Sana Fakhed
Kamnakesh (Russian spelling) said that only the Syrian people, not Americans or
Europeans, can decide who would be their president. Syrians are fighting against
the Islamic State group (ISIS) in order to protect Europe from terror, too, he
added.

Kalashnikov said that he did not believe "that we will make a coalition" with
the USA even to fight against ISIS, as they always fight against Russia, in
Ukraine and elsewhere. Russia has helped reach a nuclear deal with Iran and a
chemical weapons deal with Syria, but after we helped the US weaken them, maybe
after ISIS is defeated, they'll ask for al-Asad's head, for [Belarusian
President Alyaksandr] Lukashenka's head, for [Russian President Vladimir]
Putin's head, he added. Russia has to help its friends like al-Asad so it would
not be left alone with the USA, Kalashnikov said.

Film director Karen Shakhanzarov said that there is only a conflict between
Russia and the USA, and should al-Asad decide to close the Russian navy base in
the Syrian port of Tartus, he can very quickly become a friend of the USA.

Correspondent of the Czech newspaper Aktualne Jiri Just said that a coalition
against ISIS will include Russia as ISIS is a problem for everyone but the
question is whether Russia is prepared to sacrifice its soldiers to defeat ISIS.

Other panellists included deputy editor of politics department of Vzglyad
newspaper Yekaterina Neroznikova, director of the MGIMO University
Military-Political Studies Centre Aleksey Podberezkin, deputy director of
Institute for Scientific Information on Social Sciences under the Russian
Academy of Sciences Tatyana Parkhalina, and Greek journalist Dimitrios Liatsos
(Russian spelling).

Note: the programme was observed from a version posted on Channel One's website
(1tv.ru/sprojects_edition/si5905/fi40235)

Source: Channel One TV, Moscow, in Russian 2150 gmt 16 Sep 15

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              357 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          International New York Times

                          September 17, 2015 Thursday

Charities urge U.S. to open its doors;
Taking tens of thousands of Syrian refugees would be a bolder step, they say

BYLINE: RICK GLADSTONE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 737 words

ABSTRACT

Major charitable aid groups, seeing disarray in Europe's response to the refugee
crisis, urged the Obama administration to accept many thousands.

FULL TEXT

Executives from leading American aid groups, watching the muddled international
response to the migrant crisis with dismay, have called on the United States
government to multiply many times over its recent commitment to take 10,000
displaced Syrians in the next year.

''I think if the United States came out and said we would take 100,000, that
would change things,'' said Carolyn Miles, president and chief executive of Save
the Children, in a telephone news conference on Tuesday with colleagues from
groups including Mercy Corps, Oxfam America, CARE U.S.A. and Physicians for
Human Rights.

Paul O'Brien, a vice president for policy and campaigns at Oxfam, said, ''This
is fast becoming a legacy issue for the Obama administration, and they are not
doing enough.''

Mr. O'Brien drew a numerical comparison to Lebanon, where by some calculations a
quarter of the population is now made up of Syrians who have fled their country.
The war, which has lasted four and a half years, has sent roughly four million
Syrians into neighboring countries - and now increasingly to Europe. Half of
them are younger than 18.

If the United States followed Lebanon, Mr. O'Brien said, ''we could absorb the
entire population of Syria three times over.''

The Obama administration is under intense pressure to play a more assertive role
in resettling families displaced by Middle East mayhem, many of them from Syria.

The crush has threatened to overwhelm Europe's abilities, and governments of the
European Union are engulfed in fractious disputes over how to proceed.

Last week administration officials said the United States would increase the
number of Syrian refugees it accepts to 10,000 in the fiscal year beginning in
October from fewer than 2,000 this year. That is still a small fraction of the
hundreds of thousands seeking asylum in Europe. Germany alone has said it
expects 800,000 this year.

The Obama administration's announcement caused a range of reactions in the
United States, reflecting how the refugee issue has become part of a broader
politically polarized debate on immigrants and entanglements in foreign
conflicts.

Advocates for refugees said it was an absurdly small increase compared with the
large numbers of Vietnamese and Cubans that the United States resettled in
decades past.

Others have expressed concerns over inadvertently allowing Islamic extremists or
others with malevolent intent to enter via a Syrian refugee surge.

The charity executives rejected those concerns, pointing to the stringent
vetting required for admittance to the United States.

Andrea Koppel, vice president of global engagement and policy at Mercy Corps,
said it was only a matter of time before desperate refugees fleeing turmoil in
the Middle East, North Africa and Afghanistan found ways to reach the United
States.

''The fact is this is a geopolitical crisis,'' she said. ''Our plea to the
American public is: 'Let's not wait. Let's open our doors.'''

Rather than admitting 10,000 Syrians, she said, ''it should be tens upon tens of
thousands.''

Donna McKay, executive director of Physicians for Human Rights, said: ''The
crisis we're facing is not one in which we're lacking information. It's about
political will and failure to act.''

Nick Osborne, vice president for international programs at CARE U.S.A., said it
was ''important to look beyond the numbers'' of displaced people now leaving
their ravaged homelands at an ever-increasing pace.

''These are people who have come from middle-class families,'' he said. ''These
are people who could be contributors.''

Suzanne Akhras, founder and director of the Syrian Community Network, which has
been helping resettle displaced Syrians in the Chicago area, also played down
concerns about refugees.

''These are not people who are going to be extremists,'' she said. ''They want
to come here for a better life.''

The executives also said they had seen huge increases in financial donations in
the nearly two weeks since the photograph of Aylan Kurdi, a drowned 3-year-old
Syrian boy on a Turkish beach, commandeered much of the world's attention.

Ms. Miles, of Save the Children, said that in the first eight months of 2015,
her organization had raised $200,000 for its Syria work, but that ''in the last
few weeks, we've raised $1 million.''

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              358 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                          September 16, 2015 Wednesday

US can't shun its responsibility in refugee crisis

BYLINE: Wang Hui

LENGTH: 637  words


European and other international organizations have stepped up efforts to help
rehabilitate the refugees in some European Union countries, and last week
Germany and Austria opened their borders to receive more refugees.

Yet more than expedient measures are needed to deal with what is perceived as
the most serious refugee crisis facing Europe since World War II, as the number
of refugees to reach Europe so far this year has already equaled the total
number of last year.

Statistics from the United Nations Refugee Agency show that from January to
August, more than 300,000 refugees and illegal immigrants crossed the
Mediterranean Sea into Europe, with 80 percent of them being from Syria. Of
those, 2,850 people died or went missing during the dangerous voyage they
undertook.

On Sept 12, authorities in Munich, Germany, said they had been stretched to the
limit as they struggled to accommodate 13,000 newcomers in a single day. One day
later, Germany reinstated passport checks at the border with Austria, marking an
abrupt U-turn in its earlier policy of opening its doors to Syrian refugees.

With the Greek debt crisis still unresolved, EU countries are struggling to deal
with the continuous influx of refugees from war-torn countries in the Middle
East and North Africa. Europe faced a similar refugee crisis, though on a
smaller scale, during the civil war in Bosnia and Herzegovina - from 1992 to
1995 - which forced about 2 million people to seek safety and shelter in other
countries.

From a political point of view, the refugee crisis will have a huge impact on
the domestic politics and policies of European countries. It will disrupt their
economic and social orders, too.

For one thing, the influx of refugees into EU states will put pressure on their
job markets and could even pose a threat to their security and social stability.
Some media reports have already alleged that thousands of terrorists disguised
as refugees are pouring into Europe. If this were true, this will only brew more
trouble.

The massive influx of refugees into the EU, however, is not an overnight
development. The rise of the Islamic State in the Middle East is the result of
the long unrest and armed conflicts in countries like Syria, Iraq and Libya,
which in turn forced millions of people to seek shelter elsewhere including
Europe.

More importantly, the chaos and armed conflicts in these countries can be traced
to the US' interventionist Middle East policy that has created security vacuums
- a fertile soil for breeding extremist and terrorist groups, the IS group in
particular.

Yet the US seems least interested in giving its Middle East policy a rethink,
let alone contributing more resources and energy to ending the IS menace or
rehabilitating the refugees. When developing countries such as Brazil, Venezuela
and Chile in South America have officially announced their willingness to take
in some of the refugees fleeing the Middle East, the response from the US can
only be described as detached, if not pathetic.

But despite its indifferent attitude to the refugee crisis, the US has to take
the responsibility for whatever has been happening in the Middle East and Europe
today.

Even before the US supported the rebels in Syria in a bid to overthrow Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad, whom it considers its enemy, the wars it started in
Iraq and Afghanistan had forced millions of people to flee their homes and seek
shelter in neighboring countries. However, since the start of the Syrian civil
war in 2011, Washington has only accepted about 1,500 Syrian refugees.

Therefore, it's time the US-led West addressed the root cause of the refugee
crisis, which is a backlash of its interventionist policy in the Middle East.

The author is a senior writer with China Daily. wanghui@chinadaily.com.cn

(China Daily 09/16/2015 page9)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2015 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              359 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                          September 16, 2015 Wednesday

US can't shun its responsibility in refugee crisis

BYLINE: Wang Hui

LENGTH: 664  words


European and other international organizations have stepped up efforts to help
rehabilitate the refugees in some European Union countries, and last week
Germany and Austria opened their borders to receive more refugees.

Yet more than expedient measures are needed to deal with what is perceived as
the most serious refugee crisis facing Europe since World War II, as the number
of refugees to reach Europe so far this year has already equaled the total
number of last year.

Statistics from the United Nations Refugee Agency show that from January to
August, more than 300,000 refugees and illegal immigrants crossed the
Mediterranean Sea into Europe, with 80 percent of them being from Syria. Of
those, 2,850 people died or went missing during the dangerous voyage they
undertook.

On Sept 12, authorities in Munich, Germany, said they had been stretched to the
limit as they struggled to accommodate 13,000 newcomers in a single day. One day
later, Germany reinstated passport checks at the border with Austria, marking an
abrupt U-turn in its earlier policy of opening its doors to Syrian refugees.

With the Greek debt crisis still unresolved, EU countries are struggling to deal
with the continuous influx of refugees from war-torn countries in the Middle
East and North Africa. Europe faced a similar refugee crisis, though on a
smaller scale, during the civil war in Bosnia and Herzegovina - from 1992 to
1995 - which forced about 2 million people to seek safety and shelter in other
countries.

From a political point of view, the refugee crisis will have a huge impact on
the domestic politics and policies of European countries. It will disrupt their
economic and social orders, too.

For one thing, the influx of refugees into EU states will put pressure on their
job markets and could even pose a threat to their security and social stability.
Some media reports have already alleged that thousands of terrorists disguised
as refugees are pouring into Europe. If this were true, this will only brew more
trouble.

The massive influx of refugees into the EU, however, is not an overnight
development. The rise of the Islamic State in the Middle East is the result of
the long unrest and armed conflicts in countries like Syria, Iraq and Libya,
which in turn forced millions of people to seek shelter elsewhere including
Europe.

More importantly, the chaos and armed conflicts in these countries can be traced
to the US' interventionist Middle East policy that has created security vacuums
- a fertile soil for breeding extremist and terrorist groups, the IS group in
particular.

Yet the US seems least interested in giving its Middle East policy a rethink,
let alone contributing more resources and energy to ending the IS menace or
rehabilitating the refugees. When developing countries such as Brazil, Venezuela
and Chile in South America have officially announced their willingness to take
in some of the refugees fleeing the Middle East, the response from the US can
only be described as detached, if not pathetic.

But despite its indifferent attitude to the refugee crisis, the US has to take
the responsibility for whatever has been happening in the Middle East and Europe
today.

Even before the US supported the rebels in Syria in a bid to overthrow Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad, whom it considers its enemy, the wars it started in
Iraq and Afghanistan had forced millions of people to flee their homes and seek
shelter in neighboring countries. However, since the start of the Syrian civil
war in 2011, Washington has only accepted about 1,500 Syrian refugees.

Therefore, it's time the US-led West addressed the root cause of the refugee
crisis, which is a backlash of its interventionist policy in the Middle East.

The author is a senior writer with China Daily. wanghui@chinadaily.com.cn

(China Daily 09/16/2015 page9)

http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1493/77/144237614787.jpg

0013729e4abe1763182122.jpg

http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1493/60/144237614974.jpg

0013729e4abe1763182423.jpg

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2015 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              360 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                            China Daily - US Edition

                          September 16, 2015 Wednesday

US can't shun its responsibility in refugee crisis

LENGTH: 661  words


European and other international organizations have stepped up efforts to help
rehabilitate the refugees in some European Union countries, and last week
Germany and Austria opened their borders to receive more refugees.

Yet more than expedient measures are needed to deal with what is perceived as
the most serious refugee crisis facing Europe since World War II, as the number
of refugees to reach Europe so far this year has already equaled the total
number of last year.

Statistics from the United Nations Refugee Agency show that from January to
August, more than 300,000 refugees and illegal immigrants crossed the
Mediterranean Sea into Europe, with 80 percent of them being from Syria. Of
those, 2,850 people died or went missing during the dangerous voyage they
undertook.

On Sept 12, authorities in Munich, Germany, said they had been stretched to the
limit as they struggled to accommodate 13,000 newcomers in a single day. One day
later, Germany reinstated passport checks at the border with Austria, marking an
abrupt U-turn in its earlier policy of opening its doors to Syrian refugees.

With the Greek debt crisis still unresolved, EU countries are struggling to deal
with the continuous influx of refugees from war-torn countries in the Middle
East and North Africa. Europe faced a similar refugee crisis, though on a
smaller scale, during the civil war in Bosnia and Herzegovina - from 1992 to
1995 - which forced about 2 million people to seek safety and shelter in other
countries.

From a political point of view, the refugee crisis will have a huge impact on
the domestic politics and policies of European countries. It will disrupt their
economic and social orders, too.

For one thing, the influx of refugees into EU states will put pressure on their
job markets and could even pose a threat to their security and social stability.
Some media reports have already alleged that thousands of terrorists disguised
as refugees are pouring into Europe. If this were true, this will only brew more
trouble.

The massive influx of refugees into the EU, however, is not an overnight
development. The rise of the Islamic State in the Middle East is the result of
the long unrest and armed conflicts in countries like Syria, Iraq and Libya,
which in turn forced millions of people to seek shelter elsewhere including
Europe.

More importantly, the chaos and armed conflicts in these countries can be traced
to the US' interventionist Middle East policy that has created security vacuums
- a fertile soil for breeding extremist and terrorist groups, the IS group in
particular.

Yet the US seems least interested in giving its Middle East policy a rethink,
let alone contributing more resources and energy to ending the IS menace or
rehabilitating the refugees. When developing countries such as Brazil, Venezuela
and Chile in South America have officially announced their willingness to take
in some of the refugees fleeing the Middle East, the response from the US can
only be described as detached, if not pathetic.

But despite its indifferent attitude to the refugee crisis, the US has to take
the responsibility for whatever has been happening in the Middle East and Europe
today.

Even before the US supported the rebels in Syria in a bid to overthrow Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad, whom it considers its enemy, the wars it started in
Iraq and Afghanistan had forced millions of people to flee their homes and seek
shelter in neighboring countries. However, since the start of the Syrian civil
war in 2011, Washington has only accepted about 1,500 Syrian refugees.

Therefore, it's time the US-led West addressed the root cause of the refugee
crisis, which is a backlash of its interventionist policy in the Middle East.

The author is a senior writer with China Daily. wanghui@chinadaily.com.cn

(China Daily USA 09/16/2015 page12)

/syndigate/imgs/498/1496/77/144239648761.jpg

0013729e4abe1763182122.jpg

/syndigate/imgs/498/1496/60/144239648995.jpg

0013729e4abe1763182423.jpg

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1496


                    Copyright 2015 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              361 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                          September 16, 2015 Wednesday

US can't shun its responsibility in refugee crisis

BYLINE: Wang Hui

LENGTH: 637  words


European and other international organizations have stepped up efforts to help
rehabilitate the refugees in some European Union countries, and last week
Germany and Austria opened their borders to receive more refugees.

Yet more than expedient measures are needed to deal with what is perceived as
the most serious refugee crisis facing Europe since World War II, as the number
of refugees to reach Europe so far this year has already equaled the total
number of last year.

Statistics from the United Nations Refugee Agency show that from January to
August, more than 300,000 refugees and illegal immigrants crossed the
Mediterranean Sea into Europe, with 80 percent of them being from Syria. Of
those, 2,850 people died or went missing during the dangerous voyage they
undertook.

On Sept 12, authorities in Munich, Germany, said they had been stretched to the
limit as they struggled to accommodate 13,000 newcomers in a single day. One day
later, Germany reinstated passport checks at the border with Austria, marking an
abrupt U-turn in its earlier policy of opening its doors to Syrian refugees.

With the Greek debt crisis still unresolved, EU countries are struggling to deal
with the continuous influx of refugees from war-torn countries in the Middle
East and North Africa. Europe faced a similar refugee crisis, though on a
smaller scale, during the civil war in Bosnia and Herzegovina - from 1992 to
1995 - which forced about 2 million people to seek safety and shelter in other
countries.

From a political point of view, the refugee crisis will have a huge impact on
the domestic politics and policies of European countries. It will disrupt their
economic and social orders, too.

For one thing, the influx of refugees into EU states will put pressure on their
job markets and could even pose a threat to their security and social stability.
Some media reports have already alleged that thousands of terrorists disguised
as refugees are pouring into Europe. If this were true, this will only brew more
trouble.

The massive influx of refugees into the EU, however, is not an overnight
development. The rise of the Islamic State in the Middle East is the result of
the long unrest and armed conflicts in countries like Syria, Iraq and Libya,
which in turn forced millions of people to seek shelter elsewhere including
Europe.

More importantly, the chaos and armed conflicts in these countries can be traced
to the US' interventionist Middle East policy that has created security vacuums
- a fertile soil for breeding extremist and terrorist groups, the IS group in
particular.

Yet the US seems least interested in giving its Middle East policy a rethink,
let alone contributing more resources and energy to ending the IS menace or
rehabilitating the refugees. When developing countries such as Brazil, Venezuela
and Chile in South America have officially announced their willingness to take
in some of the refugees fleeing the Middle East, the response from the US can
only be described as detached, if not pathetic.

But despite its indifferent attitude to the refugee crisis, the US has to take
the responsibility for whatever has been happening in the Middle East and Europe
today.

Even before the US supported the rebels in Syria in a bid to overthrow Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad, whom it considers its enemy, the wars it started in
Iraq and Afghanistan had forced millions of people to flee their homes and seek
shelter in neighboring countries. However, since the start of the Syrian civil
war in 2011, Washington has only accepted about 1,500 Syrian refugees.

Therefore, it's time the US-led West addressed the root cause of the refugee
crisis, which is a backlash of its interventionist policy in the Middle East.

The author is a senior writer with China Daily. wanghui@chinadaily.com.cn

(China Daily 09/16/2015 page9)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2015 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              362 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                           September 15, 2015 Tuesday

Lessons for today's migrant crisis from the last one

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 1366 words


The Indochinese exodus was successfully resolved through resettlement
#124â[#x20ac]" agreed to and executed by a broad coalition of countries

Anne Hammerstad

Special to Reuters

We have been here before. Hundreds of thousands of people fleeing in rickety
boats, many of whom perish at sea as regional governments avoid search and
rescue efforts in fear of their "pull factor". Conditions at arrival made
unwelcoming in order to deter others from attempting the journey. Still people
continue to come.

In the two decades following the United States' withdrawal from Vietnam in 1975,
three million people fled the communist regimes of Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos.
More than one million were boat people.

A different sea and a different time, but the Indochinese refugee crisis has
lessons to offer for today's Syrian exodus. Refugees are crossing the
Mediterranean in dinghies, fishing boats and even steel-hulled ships, and
struggling through southern and eastern Europe on foot, bicycles, buses and
trains. They follow the same migration routes as asylum seekers from other nasty
parts of the world, as well as economic migrants from sub-Saharan Africa.
According to the UN Refugee Agency, UNHCR, Syrian refugees account for 53 per
cent of the nearly 400,000 illegal arrivals by sea to Europe so far in 2015.

The Indochinese refugee crisis was resolved in great part through resettlement,
agreed to and executed by a broad coalition of countries. Like today, it took
media attention on the countless tragedies at sea â[#x20ac]" coupled with
serious political backlash and humanitarian crisis in host states such as
Malaysia, Thailand and Indonesia â[#x20ac]" before governments overcame their
urge to pass the buck and look away.

Overcome it, though, they did. During an 18-month period beginning in January
1979, the world, led by the United States, resettled 450,000 Indochinese
refugees. By the late 1990s, one million had begun new lives in the United
States, 400,000 of whom were boat people. Large numbers of refugees went to
France, Canada, Australia, and other countries as part of the resettlement
agreement dubbed "Open shores for open doors".

There are many modern-day examples of large-scale refugee resettlement.
Hungarians fleeing after the 1956 uprising, and Kosovo-Albanians "ethnically
cleansed" during the 1999 Kosovo war, benefited from swift, organised
resettlement of a significant proportion of the refugees in order to alleviate
the humanitarian and security concerns of countries of first asylum. Between
April and June 1999, Nato airlifted 86,783 Kosovo Albanians to 30 different
countries, mostly in Europe and North America.

But times have changed. Faced with rising and unpredictable numbers of asylum
seekers arriving directly at their door, most governments in the rich world have
come to view resettlement as an avoidable burden rather than a useful tool of
refugee protection.

Only a tiny fraction of the world's refugees today are resettled, while vast
refugee populations languish for years and decades in refugee camps, such as the
Dadaab settlements for Somali refugees in Kenya, and Zaatari, home to around
80,000 Syrian refugees in Jordan.

There are some good arguments against resettlement. The ideal is, of course,
that refugees should one day return to their home countries. Until that day, it
could be argued that they are best looked after close to their own country, due
to cultural and social affinities, for cost reasons, and because proximity would
make them better able to judge when it is safe to repatriate.

Sometimes, though, large-scale resettlement is necessary. There is no end in
sight to the Syrian conflict. The resettlement of a relatively small, but
significant proportion of Syrian refugees would alleviate the chaotic scenes
played out across Europe. It would help stabilise and support Turkey, Lebanon
and Jordan, all creaking under the pressure of the refugee influx. And it would
reaffirm the principle, established after the horrible failings of World War
Two, that all states have a joint responsibility to provide refuge for people
fleeing war and persecution.

There are today over four million Syrian refugees worldwide. Over 90 per cent
have gone no further than just across the border. Turkey hosts 1.9 million
refugees, Lebanon 1.1 million â[#x20ac]" a quarter of the country's population
â[#x20ac]" and Jordan is home to 630,000 Syrians.

Until this year, because it was locally contained, it was possible for the rest
of the world to pay little attention to the unfolding refugee crisis. Most
fleeing Syrians arrived with some savings with which to pay rent and an
education that could, with luck, win them a job. Others had the option of
getting food and healthcare in a refugee camp.

But the war is now in its fifth year. There are many more refugees, they are
less welcome in their host states, those refugees who had savings have depleted
them, and there is less humanitarian aid available per refugee in need. The UN
has received 37 per cent of the funds needed for the 2015 humanitarian program
for Syria's displaced: money that goes to run refugee camps, and to provide food
or food vouchers, health care and education both within the camps and to the
many more who have settled in urban areas such as Jordan's capital, Amman.
UNHCR's budget is 10 per cent lower than last year, leaving the High
Commissioner for Refugees, Antonio Guterres, to declare that "we are broke".

Refugees themselves, having used up their savings, are getting into crippling
debt. Their rent and costs of living in Syria's neighbouring states have
increased dramatically in the past year. A recent study by UNHCR showed that 70
per cent of Syrian refugees in Lebanon are now living far below the poverty
line.

As needs have risen, the humanitarian system has not been able to cope. The
World Food Programme just announced to 229,000 refugees in Jordan that they
would no longer receive food vouchers due to funding cuts. At least 700,000
Syrian refugee children are going without an education, according to UNHCR.

But there is no safe and legal way for a Syrian refugee to travel to Europe
â[#x20ac]" or to any other part of the world, for that matter. They have to
resort to the perilous aid of people smugglers and, as a result, are transformed
from refugees to "illegal immigrants".

Studies of Vietnamese refugees resettled in the United States show that those
who had experienced traumatic and dangerous journeys by boat found it harder to
integrate into their new, "normal" lives than those who had benefited from the
Orderly Departure Programme. For everyone's sake, then, Syrian refugees need
safe and legal ways to travel to countries where they can restart their lives
and educate their children.

We need a comprehensive resettlement program for Syrian refugees in Turkey,
Lebanon, Jordan, Egypt and Iraq. Not for all of Syria's four million refugees,
but as a safety valve both for host countries and refugees, coupled with
stronger economic and political support to the states at the frontline of this
humanitarian disaster. You cannot cut food rations in Jordan and wonder why
people are leaving to seek sanctuary further afield.

For such a resettlement programme to work, it will take serious negotiations
between the frontline states and a broad coalition of resettlement states. The
Syrian refugee crisis is not a European problem. The United States, Canada,
Australia and other members of the rich world need to step up. The Gulf States
need to wake up to their moral obligation.

Germany has in recent days become a shining beacon of hope and decency for
Syrian refugees. The governments of the UK, France, Australia and a smattering
of other countries suggest they will take in somewhat larger refugee quotas.
This is a step in the right direction, but unilateral and piecemeal
announcements will not do the trick. We need a giant show of global solidarity
and concerted action. It has been done before. The recent groundswell of
sympathy for Syria's displaced means it can be done again.

Dr Anne Hammerstad is an expert on humanitarian politics, displacement and
conflict, and the author of the book "The Rise and Decline of a Global Security
Actor: UNHCR, Refugee Protection and Security".

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              363 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           September 15, 2015 Tuesday

Refugee or migrant? Here's a primer

BYLINE: By Katie Kather kkather@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: RAMSEY COUNTY; Minnesota-Twin Cities; West Metro; State

LENGTH: 594 words


Minnesota can expect trickle of Syrians

Minnesota has a long history of resettlement of refugees, dating back to World
War II, according to the Minnesota Department of Human Services.

Now, tens of thousands of people from the Middle East and Africa are seeking
safety in Europe at great risk. Many of them are from Syria; many will make
their way to America.

President Barack Obama announced last week that the United States plans to
accept 10,000 Syrian refugees in the coming year.

So what does this all mean for Minnesota, and what is a refugee anyway?

WHAT IS A REFUGEE?

The terms refugee and migrant have been used interchangeably to describe the
crisis in Europe, but are they the same?

A refugee is someone who "owing to a well-founded fear of being persecuted for
reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group
or political opinion, is outside the country of his nationality, and is unable
to, or owing to such fear, is unwilling to avail himself of the protection of
that country," according to the 1951 Refugee Convention from the United Nations.

Basically, refugees are those forced to leave their country to escape war or
persecution.

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees defines a migrant as someone
who chooses to move in order to improve the future prospects of themselves and
their families.

WHAT IS HAPPENING IN SYRIA?

Syria is in its fifth year of a brutal civil war that has led to 4 million
Syrians seeking refuge in Turkey, Lebanon, Iraq, Jordan and Egypt. More than 11
million Syrians have been internally displaced, meaning they can no longer live
in their homes, but still live in the country. Now, many Syrian refugees are
fleeing to Europe.

The UNHCR says that a quarter of Syria's schools and half the country's
hospitals have been destroyed in the conflict. The situation has been called the
worst humanitarian disaster of our time.

The Minneapolis-based international nonprofit American Refugee Committee works
in Syria, responding to violence against women and girls, providing water,
sanitation and hygiene infrastructure and support the distribution of emergency
items.

WHAT REFUGEES LIVE IN MINNESOTA?

Among the groups that have made Minnesota home are Bhutanese, Hmong from Laos,
Iraqis, Karen from Burma, Liberians and Somalis. Last year alone, about 2,000
refugees were settled in Minnesota, according to the Department of Human
Services.

Minneapolis is home to more Somalis than any other U.S. city and St. Paul has
the largest Hmong community in the United States, according to Richfield-based
resettlement agency Arrive Ministries.

HOW DO REFUGEES END UP HERE?

Arrive Ministries outlines a 13-step process that all refugees must go through
before they come to the U.S. http://arriveministries.org/who-we-serve /about-
refugees-asylees/the-refugee-process/).

In short, each refugee who comes to the United States goes through a series of
agencies including the UNHCR, the U.S. Embassy, the State Department, the FBI
and the CIA.

All refugees are then resettled through an agency that has a contract with the
federal government to provide basic services for refugees during their first 90
days on American soil.

In Minnesota, those agencies are:

-- International Institute of Minnesota;

-- Arrive Ministries;

-- Minnesota Council of Churches Refugee Services;

-- Catholic Charities Diocese of St. Paul Migration and Refugee
Services/Catholic Charities Diocese of Winona Refugee Resettlement Program;

-- Lutheran Social Services.

Katie Kather can be reached at 651-228-5006. Follow her at twitter.com/ktkather
.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A man runs away from Hungarian police spraying water on refugees at a
border crossing into Hungary, near Horgos, Serbia, on Sept. 16, 2015. Small
groups of refugees continued to sneak into Hungary on Wednesday, a day after the
country sealed its border with Serbia and began arresting people trying to
breach the razor-wire barrier, while a first group arrived in Croatia seeking
another way into the European Union. (AP Photo/Darko Vojinovic)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              364 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Latin America - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 14, 2015 Monday

President says Brazil ready to receive refugees

LENGTH: 655 words


Text of report by leading, centre-left Brazilian newspaper Folha de Sao Paulo
website on 10 September

[Commentary by President Dilma Rousseff: "The Refugees And Hope"]

The refugee crisis of the Middle East and North Africa, which has taken dramatic
characteristics in recent days, has been dragging along for more than four
years, especially since the beginning of the civil war in Syria and the military
intervention in Libya.

The terrible photograph of three-year old Aylan Kurdi, dead in a Turkish beach
or the gruesome discovery of 71 men, women, and children asphyxiated inside a
truck on a highway in Austria are examples of a tragedy of terrible proportions
that imposes challenges on all humanity.

The Syrian conflict has caused the death of more than 240,000 people, 4 million
refugees -most of them in neighbouring countries -and 8 million displaced
domestically. It is revolting to observe the human and material destruction in
Syria and its neighbouring countries, including works that are a patrimony of
humanity.

Iraq and Syria have become bases for criminal groups like the self-defined
Islamic State, which sow terror among populations hit by wars that destroyed
their national states. These groups carry out mass killings, recruit minors for
armed actions, and brutally impose on the local populations their sectarian
beliefs.

The geopolitical dimension of the conflicts cannot conceal a humanitarian
tragedy of gigantic proportions in face of which the international community
cannot remain still. The issue should occupy an important space at the UN
General Assembly that begins on Tuesday (September 15) in New York. Before that,
however, urgent actions of solidarity are necessary.

It is comforting to observe broad sectors of population from many European
countries -opposite to xenophobic groups -taking in the refugees and pressuring
their governments to promote solidary actions.

Since the beginning of the civil war in Syria and the multiplication of
conflicts in the Middle East and North of Africa, the Brazilian government has
offered humanitarian visas to Syrian refugees. Brazil has granted 7,762 visas. I
have ordered the increase of this effort because as a country that includes in
its population 10 million descendants from Syrians and Lebanese, we could not
act in another differently.

I congratulate the captain of the Barroso Corvette from the Brazilian Navy who
saved more than 200 Libyan refugees by rescuing them from a ship that was
sailing adrift in the Mediterranean Sea.

Respectful of human rights, Brazil is a land that receives people. Besides our
original populations, the Brazilian people are made up of many immigrants.
Millions of African brothers have come here by force during the shameful days of
slavery. The presence of indigenous peoples, Europeans, Africans, and Asians has
formed the Brazilian nation.

When great crises affected Europe and the East, the doors of Brazil were opened
to everyone. We are aware of the importance of such contributions for our
historic and cultural formation. We are proud of being a people made up of
diversity. That is why tolerance and respect for differences are traits of our
identity.

With such spirit we currently received more than 28,000 Haitian citizens,
something that we will continue to do in a legal and solidary manner. At the
same time we combat criminal groups -the so called "coyotes"-which in Latin
America, the East, and Europe traffic people taking advantage of the despair of
thousands of families fleeing the war and poverty seeking a future of hope.

Brazil, even in the current time of surmounting difficulties, has open arms to
receive refugees. I reiterate the Brazilian government's disposition to receive
in Brazil those who were expelled from their countries to come, live, work, and
contribute to prosperity and peace. We want to offer them this hope.

Source: Folha de Sao Paulo website (www.folha.com.br) in Portuguese 10 Sep 15

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              365 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                           September 13, 2015 Sunday

What can we do about flow of refugees?;
TAKING A CLOSER LOOK EUROPE'S MIGRANT CRISIS

SECTION: ; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 2311 words


Refugees board a ferry at the port of Mytilini last week in Lesbos, Greece.
Greece has been overwhelmed this year by the more than 230,000 migrants who have
landed on its shores, pushing the island of Lesbos to its limits.

For several weeks, the top international story has been the seemingly endless
waves of refugees pushing their way into Europe from Africa and the Mideast -
and the response to European nations to these newcomers. Who has responsibility
for the crisis? What should Europe do? Does the United States have a part to
play? Are American policies part of the situation? New York Times columnist
Thomas L. Friedman wrote, "Some very big tectonic plates are moving, and people
feel it under their feet. The world is being redivided into regions of 'order'
and 'disorder,' and for the first time in a long time, we don't have an answer
for all the people flocking to get out of the world of disorder and into the
world of order ... we have some hard new thinking and hard choices ahead."
Today, we share some of what's being written in journals about the crisis. Your
thoughts, as always, are welcome to keep the conversation going. Email
rrollins@coxohio.com - Ron Rollins

From William Sale-tan, at Slate: This is one cost of globalization.

The flood of migrants into Europe is just another stage of economic
globalization. Today, information and images circle the world in a flash.
Capital flows across borders toward cheap labor. Goods find their way to
countries with disposable income. And increasingly, people who hate where they
live, whether for economic or political reasons, can find out where they'd be
better off and how to get there. Websites and social networks tell you which
country has the best government benefits, which borders you'll have to cross,
and what it'll cost you. Even in sub-Saharan Africa, according to a human
trafficking expert quoted in the Washington Post, "You're never more than two
conversations away from someone who can get you to Europe." ...

Once you understand the crisis this way

- as a black market in which humans are treated like goods - the practical steps
become obvious. Step One is to drive down demand for emigration to Europe, by
making life more bearable and hopeful in the countries people are fleeing. That
means bolstering economies in West Africa, negotiating some kind of peace in
Syria, and doing more to help people in refugee camps. If they can't stand life
there, they'll find a way to go elsewhere.

Step Two is to shrink the supply of goods migrants can expect on arrival. ... To
discourage further migration, Denmark is now buying ads in Lebanon to warn
people that it has toughened its immigration policies and has halved its welfare
benefits. You may think this is cruel. But if it alters the balance of supply
and demand in the smuggling market, it could save lives.

Step Three is to open the market's choke points. Many of the people who die on
the way to or through Europe aren't economic migrants. They're political
refugees. They ought to be able to travel in broad daylight, not in the backs of
trucks or in overloaded dinghies at night. ... That way, Germany can be more
generous than Hungary. And nobody has to ride the highway between them in the
back of a chicken truck.

From Steve Hilton, at The New York Times: Deal with the causes, not the
symptoms.

While we can argue forever about the causes of conflict in the Middle East, it
is impossible to ignore the impact of American foreign policy on what's
happening in Europe. It was shocking to see an "expert" from the Council on
Foreign Relations saying that the situation is "largely Europe's
responsibility." How, exactly? The Iraq invasion (which could reasonably be
described as "largely America's responsibility") unleashed a period of
instability and competition in the region that is collapsing states and fueling
sectarian conflict.

European leaders wanted, years ago, to intervene directly in Syria in order to
check President Bashar al-Assad's cruelty; the United States didn't. You can
understand why

- I wouldn't for one second question the judgment of American political leaders
that their country was reluctant to participate in another military conflict.
But at least acknowledge the consequences of nonintervention: the protracted
Syrian civil war, the emergence of a lawless territory ripe for exploitation by
the sick zealots of the Islamic State, and the resulting flood of millions of
displaced people. ...

There's one more simple truth to acknowledge. Today's crisis will worsen in the
years ahead unless we deal with the causes, not just the symptoms. That means
serious and sustained action to create free societies people actually want to
stay in. Places with a market economy, property rights, the rule of law, a free
press, an independent judiciary and accountable democratic processes.

This is America's chance to say, "We have a moral responsibility to help. So the
United States will welcome as many refugees as Europe: Not just thousands;
hundreds of thousands. But there has to be a bargain. We cannot keep doing this.
So we will now embark on a new effort to bring the basics of a decent life to
the world's hot spots."

From Philip Giraldi, at The American Conservative: America bears responsibility
for the crisis.

I would assign to Washington most of the blame for what is happening right now.
Since folks inside the beltway are particularly given to making judgments based
on numerical data they might be interested in the toll exacted through America's
global war on terror. By one not unreasonable estimate, as many as four million
Muslims have died or been killed as a result of the ongoing conflicts that
Washington has either initiated or been party to since 2001.

There are, in addition, millions of displaced persons who have lost their homes
and livelihoods, many of whom are among the human wave currently engulfing
Europe. There are currently an estimated 2,590,000 refugees who have fled their
homes from Afghanistan, 370,000 from Iraq, 3,880,000 million from Syria, and
1,100,000 from Somalia. The United Nations Refugee Agency is expecting at least
130,000 refugees from Yemen as fighting in that country accelerates. Between
600,000 and one million Libyans are living precariously in neighboring Tunisia.
...

Significantly, the countries that have generated most of the refugees are all
places where the United States has invaded, overthrown governments, supported
insurgencies, or intervened in a civil war. ...

It is perhaps past time for Washington to begin to become accountable for what
it does. The millions of people living rough or in tents, if they are lucky,
need help and it is not satisfactory for the White House to continue with its
silence, a posture that suggests that the refugees are somehow somebody else's
problem. They are, in fact, our problem.

From the editors of The Economis: Germany is setting the moral example for all.

For too long Europe has closed its eyes to Syria's foul and bloody civil war,
and tried to keep the suffering multitudes out. Suddenly the continent's gates
have been pushed open by two political forces. One is moral conscience,
belatedly wakened by the image of a drowned Syrian child on a Turkish beach. The
other is the political courage of Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, who told
her people to set aside their fear of immigrants and show compassion to the
needy.

Tens of thousands of asylum-seekers flowed toward Germany by rail, bus and on
foot, chanting "Germany! Germany!", to be welcomed by cheering crowds. Germany
is showing that old Europe, too, can take in the tired, the poor and the huddled
masses yearning to breathe free. It says it can absorb not thousands, but
hundreds of thousands of refugees.

Such numbers will inevitably raise many worries: that cultures will be swamped
by aliens, economies will be overburdened, social benefits will have to be
curbed and even that terrorists will creep in. Anti-immigrant parties have been
on the rise across Europe. In America, too, some politicians want to build walls
to keep foreigners out.

Yet the impulse to see migrants as chiefly a burden is profoundly mistaken. The
answer to these familiar fears is not to put up more barriers, but to manage the
pressures and the risks to ensure that migration improves the lives of both
immigrants and their hosts. The starting point is a sense of perspective.

Germany's Willkommenskultur is right morally, economically and politically. It
sets an example to the world. ... Helping Syrians is a clear moral duty. That
responsibility falls not on Europe alone, but the world as a whole. It needs a
coordinated policy to manage the Syrian crisis along the entire chain of
displacement. There must be a concerted effort to contain the war, starting with
the creation of protected havens. ...

Refugees are intertwined with economic migrants. They get on the same boats and
resentment of migrants erodes support for refugees. How, then, to deal with
those who want a better life rather than a safer one? ...

There are surely limits to how many migrants any society will accept. But the
numbers Europe proposes to receive do not begin to breach them. The boundaries
of social tolerance are fuzzy. They change with time and circumstance and
leadership. Willkommenskultur shows that the people of Europe are more welcoming
than their nervous politicians assume. The politics of fear can be trumped by
the politics of dignity. Mrs. Merkel understood this; so should the rest of the
world.

From Michael Rubin, at Commentary: Ideological extremism is driving the crisis.

Compassion is a noble European and American trait but, without context, it is
shortsighted. ...

Angela Merkel may talk about absorbing 500,000 plus Middle Eastern migrants each
year, and Obama may wish to absorb thousands more. There has been some
discussion about the failure of the Gulf Arab states to pull their weight, and
surprisingly little discussion about why China and Russia should absolve
themselves, as usual, of providing humanitarian relief. While it might feel
liberal and nice to welcome refugees with open arms, it can be counterproductive
in the long-term.

The problem isn't simply the question about whether new refugees accept broader
American or European values, or whether they seek opportunity without
compromising culture and assimilating into the rule-of-law. Nor is the main
problem that a willingness to embrace migrants encourages a brain drain which
ultimately makes Syria, Libya, Iraq and Kurdistan more difficult to stabilize
and rebuild. Rather, while embracing and welcoming refugees make governments
feel good, statecraft shouldn't simply be social work. The refugees are the
symptom. The disease, as in World War II, was ideological extremism. Until the
United States and Europe craft a policy to deal with the cause of the refugee
flight, they are only welcoming discord at home and more tragedy abroad.

From Patrick Weil, at AlJazeera America: There is world precedent for helping
the refugees.

In order to put an end to the ongoing tragedy in the Mediterranean, a global
international response is necessary. The first priority should be a coordinated
resettlement effort.

Two iconic precedents come to mind for this sort of action. First, in response
to the Nazi persecution of the European Jews, Franklin D. Roosevelt convened a
multilateral conference in July 1938 in Évian, France. However, it went down in
history as an enormous failure: With the United States and Britain refusing to
take in substantial numbers of Jews, the attendees' initial commitment to
resettle refugees proved hollow.

Multilateral burden-sharing negotiations re-emerged in the late 1970s in
response to the exodus of people fleeing Vietnam during the war. When the North
Vietnamese took control of the South, thousands of people escaped into the South
China Sea in boats, and, as in the Mediterranean today, enormous numbers of them
never arrived at any destination. It was clear that without real solutions to
help those whose lives were destroyed, boat departures would continue, so in
1979, governments came together in Geneva at the United Nations to negotiate the
Orderly Departure Program, which aimed to provide a framework for resettlement.

Thanks to the Orderly Departure Program and a number of similar resettlement
programs, almost 2 million visas were granted to Southeast Asian displaced
people from 1975 to 1997. The most were resettled to the United States, which
took in 1.3 million individuals, but it was by no means an exclusively American
effort. ...

There are many reasons for the disintegration of Iraq, Syria, Libya and now
Yemen, and no single grand narrative can capture the entire picture. But the
very least we can do is agree that Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey, which have taken
in millions of refugees, are not to blame.

We cannot ignore the decisive role that the United States and its allies played
in bringing about the current refugee crisis. This role began immediately after
9 /11, with the invasion of Iraq. The more recent intervention in Libya further
contributed to the disaster.

From the editors of The Nation: This may be the new world order.

This is not a problem for Europe to solve alone. The Syrian civil war has
displaced more than 4 million people, most of them to other countries in the
region - though conspicuously not to the Persian Gulf states or Saudi Arabia,
friend to the West and armorer of Islamist fighters in Syria.

The rise of the Islamic State - now terrorizing Syria and Iraq and threatening
neighboring countries - was sparked by the aftermath of the Iraq invasion and
further fueled by the misguided tactics of the United States and Britain in
Syria.

Yet the United States has accepted just 1,500 Syrian refugees since the civil
war began. ...

Meanwhile, the people keep coming, and will continue to risk their lives to
come.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.

                              366 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                           September 13, 2015 Sunday

What can we do about flow of refugees?;
TAKING A CLOSER LOOK EUROPE'S MIGRANT CRISIS

SECTION: ; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 2311 words


Refugees board a ferry at the port of Mytilini last week in Lesbos, Greece.
Greece has been overwhelmed this year by the more than 230,000 migrants who have
landed on its shores, pushing the island of Lesbos to its limits.

For several weeks, the top international story has been the seemingly endless
waves of refugees pushing their way into Europe from Africa and the Mideast -
and the response to European nations to these newcomers. Who has responsibility
for the crisis? What should Europe do? Does the United States have a part to
play? Are American policies part of the situation? New York Times columnist
Thomas L. Friedman wrote, "Some very big tectonic plates are moving, and people
feel it under their feet. The world is being redivided into regions of 'order'
and 'disorder,' and for the first time in a long time, we don't have an answer
for all the people flocking to get out of the world of disorder and into the
world of order ... we have some hard new thinking and hard choices ahead."
Today, we share some of what's being written in journals about the crisis. Your
thoughts, as always, are welcome to keep the conversation going. Email
rrollins@coxohio.com - Ron Rollins

From William Sale-tan, at Slate: This is one cost of globalization.

The flood of migrants into Europe is just another stage of economic
globalization. Today, information and images circle the world in a flash.
Capital flows across borders toward cheap labor. Goods find their way to
countries with disposable income. And increasingly, people who hate where they
live, whether for economic or political reasons, can find out where they'd be
better off and how to get there. Websites and social networks tell you which
country has the best government benefits, which borders you'll have to cross,
and what it'll cost you. Even in sub-Saharan Africa, according to a human
trafficking expert quoted in the Washington Post, "You're never more than two
conversations away from someone who can get you to Europe." ...

Once you understand the crisis this way

- as a black market in which humans are treated like goods - the practical steps
become obvious. Step One is to drive down demand for emigration to Europe, by
making life more bearable and hopeful in the countries people are fleeing. That
means bolstering economies in West Africa, negotiating some kind of peace in
Syria, and doing more to help people in refugee camps. If they can't stand life
there, they'll find a way to go elsewhere.

Step Two is to shrink the supply of goods migrants can expect on arrival. ... To
discourage further migration, Denmark is now buying ads in Lebanon to warn
people that it has toughened its immigration policies and has halved its welfare
benefits. You may think this is cruel. But if it alters the balance of supply
and demand in the smuggling market, it could save lives.

Step Three is to open the market's choke points. Many of the people who die on
the way to or through Europe aren't economic migrants. They're political
refugees. They ought to be able to travel in broad daylight, not in the backs of
trucks or in overloaded dinghies at night. ... That way, Germany can be more
generous than Hungary. And nobody has to ride the highway between them in the
back of a chicken truck.

From Steve Hilton, at The New York Times: Deal with the causes, not the
symptoms.

While we can argue forever about the causes of conflict in the Middle East, it
is impossible to ignore the impact of American foreign policy on what's
happening in Europe. It was shocking to see an "expert" from the Council on
Foreign Relations saying that the situation is "largely Europe's
responsibility." How, exactly? The Iraq invasion (which could reasonably be
described as "largely America's responsibility") unleashed a period of
instability and competition in the region that is collapsing states and fueling
sectarian conflict.

European leaders wanted, years ago, to intervene directly in Syria in order to
check President Bashar al-Assad's cruelty; the United States didn't. You can
understand why

- I wouldn't for one second question the judgment of American political leaders
that their country was reluctant to participate in another military conflict.
But at least acknowledge the consequences of nonintervention: the protracted
Syrian civil war, the emergence of a lawless territory ripe for exploitation by
the sick zealots of the Islamic State, and the resulting flood of millions of
displaced people. ...

There's one more simple truth to acknowledge. Today's crisis will worsen in the
years ahead unless we deal with the causes, not just the symptoms. That means
serious and sustained action to create free societies people actually want to
stay in. Places with a market economy, property rights, the rule of law, a free
press, an independent judiciary and accountable democratic processes.

This is America's chance to say, "We have a moral responsibility to help. So the
United States will welcome as many refugees as Europe: Not just thousands;
hundreds of thousands. But there has to be a bargain. We cannot keep doing this.
So we will now embark on a new effort to bring the basics of a decent life to
the world's hot spots."

From Philip Giraldi, at The American Conservative: America bears responsibility
for the crisis.

I would assign to Washington most of the blame for what is happening right now.
Since folks inside the beltway are particularly given to making judgments based
on numerical data they might be interested in the toll exacted through America's
global war on terror. By one not unreasonable estimate, as many as four million
Muslims have died or been killed as a result of the ongoing conflicts that
Washington has either initiated or been party to since 2001.

There are, in addition, millions of displaced persons who have lost their homes
and livelihoods, many of whom are among the human wave currently engulfing
Europe. There are currently an estimated 2,590,000 refugees who have fled their
homes from Afghanistan, 370,000 from Iraq, 3,880,000 million from Syria, and
1,100,000 from Somalia. The United Nations Refugee Agency is expecting at least
130,000 refugees from Yemen as fighting in that country accelerates. Between
600,000 and one million Libyans are living precariously in neighboring Tunisia.
...

Significantly, the countries that have generated most of the refugees are all
places where the United States has invaded, overthrown governments, supported
insurgencies, or intervened in a civil war. ...

It is perhaps past time for Washington to begin to become accountable for what
it does. The millions of people living rough or in tents, if they are lucky,
need help and it is not satisfactory for the White House to continue with its
silence, a posture that suggests that the refugees are somehow somebody else's
problem. They are, in fact, our problem.

From the editors of The Economis: Germany is setting the moral example for all.

For too long Europe has closed its eyes to Syria's foul and bloody civil war,
and tried to keep the suffering multitudes out. Suddenly the continent's gates
have been pushed open by two political forces. One is moral conscience,
belatedly wakened by the image of a drowned Syrian child on a Turkish beach. The
other is the political courage of Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, who told
her people to set aside their fear of immigrants and show compassion to the
needy.

Tens of thousands of asylum-seekers flowed toward Germany by rail, bus and on
foot, chanting "Germany! Germany!", to be welcomed by cheering crowds. Germany
is showing that old Europe, too, can take in the tired, the poor and the huddled
masses yearning to breathe free. It says it can absorb not thousands, but
hundreds of thousands of refugees.

Such numbers will inevitably raise many worries: that cultures will be swamped
by aliens, economies will be overburdened, social benefits will have to be
curbed and even that terrorists will creep in. Anti-immigrant parties have been
on the rise across Europe. In America, too, some politicians want to build walls
to keep foreigners out.

Yet the impulse to see migrants as chiefly a burden is profoundly mistaken. The
answer to these familiar fears is not to put up more barriers, but to manage the
pressures and the risks to ensure that migration improves the lives of both
immigrants and their hosts. The starting point is a sense of perspective.

Germany's Willkommenskultur is right morally, economically and politically. It
sets an example to the world. ... Helping Syrians is a clear moral duty. That
responsibility falls not on Europe alone, but the world as a whole. It needs a
coordinated policy to manage the Syrian crisis along the entire chain of
displacement. There must be a concerted effort to contain the war, starting with
the creation of protected havens. ...

Refugees are intertwined with economic migrants. They get on the same boats and
resentment of migrants erodes support for refugees. How, then, to deal with
those who want a better life rather than a safer one? ...

There are surely limits to how many migrants any society will accept. But the
numbers Europe proposes to receive do not begin to breach them. The boundaries
of social tolerance are fuzzy. They change with time and circumstance and
leadership. Willkommenskultur shows that the people of Europe are more welcoming
than their nervous politicians assume. The politics of fear can be trumped by
the politics of dignity. Mrs. Merkel understood this; so should the rest of the
world.

From Michael Rubin, at Commentary: Ideological extremism is driving the crisis.

Compassion is a noble European and American trait but, without context, it is
shortsighted. ...

Angela Merkel may talk about absorbing 500,000 plus Middle Eastern migrants each
year, and Obama may wish to absorb thousands more. There has been some
discussion about the failure of the Gulf Arab states to pull their weight, and
surprisingly little discussion about why China and Russia should absolve
themselves, as usual, of providing humanitarian relief. While it might feel
liberal and nice to welcome refugees with open arms, it can be counterproductive
in the long-term.

The problem isn't simply the question about whether new refugees accept broader
American or European values, or whether they seek opportunity without
compromising culture and assimilating into the rule-of-law. Nor is the main
problem that a willingness to embrace migrants encourages a brain drain which
ultimately makes Syria, Libya, Iraq and Kurdistan more difficult to stabilize
and rebuild. Rather, while embracing and welcoming refugees make governments
feel good, statecraft shouldn't simply be social work. The refugees are the
symptom. The disease, as in World War II, was ideological extremism. Until the
United States and Europe craft a policy to deal with the cause of the refugee
flight, they are only welcoming discord at home and more tragedy abroad.

From Patrick Weil, at AlJazeera America: There is world precedent for helping
the refugees.

In order to put an end to the ongoing tragedy in the Mediterranean, a global
international response is necessary. The first priority should be a coordinated
resettlement effort.

Two iconic precedents come to mind for this sort of action. First, in response
to the Nazi persecution of the European Jews, Franklin D. Roosevelt convened a
multilateral conference in July 1938 in Évian, France. However, it went down in
history as an enormous failure: With the United States and Britain refusing to
take in substantial numbers of Jews, the attendees' initial commitment to
resettle refugees proved hollow.

Multilateral burden-sharing negotiations re-emerged in the late 1970s in
response to the exodus of people fleeing Vietnam during the war. When the North
Vietnamese took control of the South, thousands of people escaped into the South
China Sea in boats, and, as in the Mediterranean today, enormous numbers of them
never arrived at any destination. It was clear that without real solutions to
help those whose lives were destroyed, boat departures would continue, so in
1979, governments came together in Geneva at the United Nations to negotiate the
Orderly Departure Program, which aimed to provide a framework for resettlement.

Thanks to the Orderly Departure Program and a number of similar resettlement
programs, almost 2 million visas were granted to Southeast Asian displaced
people from 1975 to 1997. The most were resettled to the United States, which
took in 1.3 million individuals, but it was by no means an exclusively American
effort. ...

There are many reasons for the disintegration of Iraq, Syria, Libya and now
Yemen, and no single grand narrative can capture the entire picture. But the
very least we can do is agree that Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey, which have taken
in millions of refugees, are not to blame.

We cannot ignore the decisive role that the United States and its allies played
in bringing about the current refugee crisis. This role began immediately after
9 /11, with the invasion of Iraq. The more recent intervention in Libya further
contributed to the disaster.

From the editors of The Nation: This may be the new world order.

This is not a problem for Europe to solve alone. The Syrian civil war has
displaced more than 4 million people, most of them to other countries in the
region - though conspicuously not to the Persian Gulf states or Saudi Arabia,
friend to the West and armorer of Islamist fighters in Syria.

The rise of the Islamic State - now terrorizing Syria and Iraq and threatening
neighboring countries - was sparked by the aftermath of the Iraq invasion and
further fueled by the misguided tactics of the United States and Britain in
Syria.

Yet the United States has accepted just 1,500 Syrian refugees since the civil
war began. ...

Meanwhile, the people keep coming, and will continue to risk their lives to
come.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.

                              367 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           Idaho Falls Post Register

                          September 12, 2015 Saturday

Guest column: More difficult times ahead

BYLINE: Jerry Brady, Writer

LENGTH: 565 words

DATELINE: Idaho Falls, ID


Immigration is a hot-button issue in the presidential race, but the challenges
facing the U.S. pale in comparison to those being experienced by Europe, writes
Jerry Brady.

By Jerry Brady

This week, President Angela Merkel welcomed a flood of refugees pouring into
Germany from Syria, saying it was not only the right thing to do but that her
country needs more young workers to power its economy.

Around 800,000 Syrians are expected this year, most of them arriving illegally
and speaking no German.

A couple days later, soccer clubs and their fans all over Europe began pledging
millions of euros for refugee relief and training - and giving some of them
tickets to soccer games! This wave of compassion is brave and astonishing
considering that anti-immigrant political parties are making big gains all
across the continent, including in the world's most progressive countries and
Germany itself.

The same cannot be said in the United States at the moment. Donald Trump's
anti-immigrant tirades have launched him into the lead among Republicans running
for president.

Citizens in Twin Falls are attempting a ballot initiative to prevent even a
handful of Syrians from eventually migrating there as refugees. Although 4
million Syrians are homeless, President Obama has been chastised for offering to
take a mere 5,000 more. And can you imagine NFL teams matching the generosity of
European soccer clubs?

Immigration is obviously among the most difficult challenges in the world,
particularly for Europe. The fastest-growing continent is Africa, which will
have a population of 4 billion by 2050, according to the United Nations.

Where will they go when the inevitable disaster strikes? Surely not to the
Middle East, which will keep adding to the tide of displaced persons as Shia and
Sunni continue to fight one another. Both populations will keep trying to get
into Europe.

Admire Europe for what it is doing today. Pity Europe for what it must cope with
in the future. Merkel's extraordinary statement this week surely anticipates
this more difficult time ahead.

By comparison, the United States faces a much more manageable future. Instead of
Africa and the Middle East as neighbors, we have Canada, Mexico and Central
America.

Illegal immigration from Central America has slowed and net migration from
Mexico has fallen to zero. We have 11 million people here illegally, most of
them working and paying taxes, while worldwide over 400 million are displaced
from their homeland or refugees.

Helping our neighboring economies through trade and development is a lot easier
than what Europe faces. While the United States undermined Guatemala, Nicaragua
and El Salvador egregiously during the Cold War, we've at least mended our ways
since then.

The drug trade drives many Central Americans to flee north at great risk, but
who's buying those drugs? Mostly we are in the United States. Curb that appetite
and immigration decreases.

And then there is Merkel's remarkable statement that Germany needs immigrants to
educate, train and fill jobs to support that country's aging population. How
many young immigrants does the United States need as its population, like
Germany's, ages and retires?

Try running Twin Falls and the agriculture economy of Magic Valley without
immigrants.

It cannot be done.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 The Post Register
                              All Rights Reserved

                              368 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                          September 12, 2015 Saturday
                                  Main Edition

RESETTLING REFUGEES TAKES TIME, RESOURCES World Relief head welcomes increased
interest in helping transplants

BYLINE: Rachel Alexander rachela@spokesman.com, (509) 459-5406

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 925 words


Images of Syrian refugees streaming into Europe have dominated the news for the
past week, but the crisis is more than a European issue. World Relief Spokane
settled 527 refugees in the Inland Northwest last year, mostly from the Middle
East, Southeast Asia and central and eastern Africa.

Director Mark Kadel believes the U.S. has an important role to play in the
Syrian refugee crisis, and he said his office has been overwhelmed by calls and
emails from Spokane residents who want to help. We sat down with him to ask
about the current crisis and how Spokane fits in.

S-R: Why is Europe being flooded with Syrian refugees?

Kadel: Since 2012, Syria has lost nearly 4 million of their citizens. About
one-sixth of the population of the country has crossed into neighboring
countries fleeing the conflict. It's just overcome the neighboring countries.

In Lebanon today, one out of seven people in the country is a Syrian refugee. In
Jordan, it's one out of 10. The U.N. just doesn't have funds to be able to meet
the needs of providing humanitarian assistance. It's more pronounced right now
in Syria because neighboring countries like Jordan and Turkey are already
inundated with refugees from Iraq that have come there over the last 10 years.
So it's getting to a crisis point where there isn't any food, they're running
out of shelter. Consequently, they're beginning to migrate into Europe trying to
find some type of resource.

S-R: Where does the U.S. fit into the refugee crisis?

Kadel: The modern United States refugee resettlement program is a federal
program, and we've been resettling refugees in our country for the last 35
years. Every year the president sets a determination on refugees, and the last
several years the administration's set that cap at 70,000.

Our country had planned to receive no more than 1,500 Syrians this year. We
might make it to 1,000. Out of 4 million refugees, that's a mere drop in the
bucket of what we're capable of.

S-R: What about the Obama administration's announcement on Sept. 10 that the
U.S. will take in 10,000 new Syrian refugees over the next year? (Editor's note:
World Relief's national headquarters issued a statement Sept. 10 following the
announcement calling on the Obama administration to accept 200,000 refugees next
year, including 100,000 Syrians.)

Kadel: We were very thankful for this announcement. We hope that that's in
addition to and not in replacement of other refugees that have just as much need
as the Syrians.

S-R: What's standing in the way of more refugees coming to the U.S.?

Kadel: There is a long process for a refugee to come to the United States. They
have to go to multiple interviews to prove that they really are fleeing their
country because of a fear of persecution. Once they have been interviewed and
determined they fit that definition, they go through a number of medical checks
and security checks. This whole process takes time. Sometimes it takes eight
months to two years.

Part of it has to do with the anti-immigration sentiment in this country. There
are some communities that may perceive they're being inundated with refugees.
There's some pushback in that.

S-R: How do you respond to people who don't want refugees to come here?

Kadel: We all can trace our American citizenship to one of our ancestors that
came to this country. We wouldn't be here today if America hadn't opened their
arms to them. This is the least that we can do as a humanitarian country -
provide an opportunity for these people to start their lives again.

I had a lady here in Spokane call me two weeks ago that had a refugee Muslim
family move in across the street. She was all up in arms. I talked to her and
gave her some facts and figures and invited her to go over and introduce
herself. Yesterday I talked to this refugee family and they told me that she's
over every day, she's bringing them groceries, she's bringing them fruit off her
tree, she's checking in on them. She absolutely is their best neighbor.

S-R: What can we do to address the root causes of the refugee crisis?

Kadel: Continue to fund organizations that are working to stem the crisis of
refugees fleeing their areas of conflict and supporting them monetarily so they
can meet the needs. And of course, working toward peaceful resolutions in the
countries that are having war so these refugees feel safe to return.

A refugee camp isn't a viable solution for a refugee. The first viable solution
is for the conflict to end, the dictator to be removed, the persecution to be
removed, so the refugees can go back to the land of their forefathers. The
second solution would be for them to be integrated into the country they flee
to, but that rarely happens. So the only other viable solution is for a third
country like the United States to be able to offer them an opportunity to be
resettled in their country.

S-R: How can people in Spokane get involved?

Kadel: We're receiving refugees every week this month. Seventy refugees are
coming to Spokane this month that people can get engaged with and help with, by
either donating furniture, donating cash, getting involved in our volunteer
program. We would hope that when these Syrians that are in the camps today
finally get to the U.S. next year, people will still be genuinely moved and be
able to be involved with the resettlement that we're doing and not just let it
just be a passing interest that they have right now.

More information about World Relief Spokane, including volunteer and donation
opportunities, is available at worldreliefspokane.org.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: This interview was edited for length and clarity.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Spokane Spokesman-Review

                              369 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 11, 2015 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Partisan Tussle Keeps Top U.S. Aid Job Vacant

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 876 words


WASHINGTON --  As the international community confronts a refugee crisis, the
nominee to head the American agency responsible for overseas humanitarian issues
is stalled in the Senate, leaving the Obama administration with a critical
vacancy as it grapples with how to assist those displaced by conflict in the
Middle East and Africa.

The nominee, Gayle Smith, a National Security Council official picked by
President Obama in April to direct the United States Agency for International
Development, remains tied up in a partisan Senate fight over nominations despite
bipartisan backing for her confirmation.

Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, announced this summer that he would
object to considering any nominees for State Department posts because of his
opposition to the nuclear deal with Iran, complicating efforts to move ahead
quickly with floor votes on the president's picks for international posts. A
spokesman for Mr. Cruz said Thursday that those objections still stood.

Hoping to get Ms. Smith installed to provide expertise and leadership on refugee
matters, the White House joined Senate Democrats this week to push for
accelerated consideration of her nomination. Ms. Smith is a veteran on
international aid issues known for her work in Africa.

''By blocking Ms. Smith and other important foreign policy nominations, Senator
Cruz and his Republican colleagues are shutting down America's leadership abroad
while the refugee crisis rages on,'' Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the
Democratic leader, said Thursday in a statement. He called on Senator Mitch
McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and majority leader, to ''stop playing
political games with critical nominees and schedule a vote to confirm Ms. Smith
without further delay.''

The White House on Wednesday also urged a vote on Ms. Smith. ''There's nobody
more qualified than Gayle to lead this agency, and they are at the center of
spreading relief around the world,'' a spokesman, Eric Schultz, said. ''And
particularly in light of this ongoing Syrian refugee crisis in Europe, if
Congress is looking to play a constructive role in making sure the United States
effort remains unhampered, that's a good way to do it.''

Congressional officials said they knew of no direct opposition to Ms. Smith
other than from Mr. Cruz. The White House had hoped for a vote on her
confirmation before the Senate left town in August, and Denis McDonough, the
White House chief of staff, called Mr. Cruz to ask him to drop his objections.
But there has been no new movement.

A spokesman for Mr. McConnell, who would need to bring the nomination to the
floor, said there was no time frame for scheduling the vote.

Administration officials said that filling the job was crucial because the
United States is the leading provider of international aid and because the
agency, with its $20 billion budget, is the best conduit for getting assistance
to refugees quickly. Having a director in place also helps significantly in
negotiations with foreign nations, they said.

The agency is not involved in resettling refugees in the United States, but
congressional Republicans have emphasized this week that they want to address
the Syrian refugee crisis at its source, a role U.S.A.I.D. would assist in.

Ms. Smith, who spent 20 years in Africa, is well-known in development circles
and, during the Clinton administration, worked for the agency she will lead if
approved by the Senate.

Her extensive experience was seen as an asset, especially because, with Mr.
Obama leaving office in January 2017, she would have limited time in the job.
She also drew endorsements from Republicans such as former Senators Bill Frist
of Tennessee and Richard G. Lugar of Indiana, although some critics complained
that she had been too willing to work with authoritarian governments in Africa.

Her confirmation hearing in mid-June was relatively uneventful, and Senator Bob
Corker, Republican of Tennessee and chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee,
noted that she had ''been involved in these kinds of issues for a long, long
time.''

''I'm glad the executive branch has nominated someone who has the kind of
experience you have,'' he told her.

The first problems surfaced when Republicans expressed concerns over Ms. Smith's
view of how the administration interprets prohibitions against using foreign aid
for abortion-related services, causing a temporary delay in her approval by the
committee. White House officials intervened and addressed the question to the
apparent satisfaction of Republicans.

The committee approved her on a voice vote on July 29 with no objections heard,
according to committee staff members. She then joined an assortment of nominees
whose confirmations have been slowed by Mr. Cruz.

In his July 16 letter, Mr. Cruz, who is a candidate for the Republican
presidential nomination, said he intended to block new funding for the State
Department and all nominees for top jobs unless the Obama administration stopped
the United Nations Security Council from taking action on the Iran deal before
Congress did. The Security Council approved it a few days later.

On Thursday, Senate Democrats blocked a final vote on a resolution of
disapproval, ensuring the deal will take effect.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/11/world/partisan-tussle-keeps-top-us-aid-job-vac
ant.html

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gayle Smith, the nominee to lead the United States Agency for
International Development. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANUEL BALCE CENETA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company

                              370 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                    September 10, 2015 Thursday 6:12 PM GMT

Should this child receive asylum or be deported? Republicans think it depends;
Republican contender Donald Trump is apparently moved to compassion by the
plight of Syrian refugees. He's shown none to Central American immigrants

BYLINE: Julio Ricardo Varela

SECTION: COMMENT IS FREE

LENGTH: 822 words


Republican presidential front-runner Donald Trump exhibited the most blatant
example of political hypocrisy when he told FOX News' Bill O'Reilly on Tuesday
that the "unbelievable humanitarian problem" of the current migration crisis
gripping the EU would force even him to take action if he were president.

When O'Reilly asked Trump if he would oppose people from the Middle East and
Africa from seeking refuge in the United States, Trump said, "I hate the concept
of it, but on a humanitarian basis, with what's happening, you have to." He
closed with this: "You know, it's living in hell in Syria, there's no question
about it. They're living in hell."

Ironically, there are many others in this world - specifically, people from
Mexico and Central America - "living in hell", yet, in a Trump administration,
those individuals would just be "criminals" who must be deported and could never
be classified as "refugees". Americans like Trump can show begrudging compassion
towards migrants entering Germany, but they continue to have an aversion to an
ongoing crisis that has seen thousands of children and families detained at the
southern border since 2013.

This week a report from the Migration Policy Institute said:

Together, the United States and Mexico have apprehended almost 1 million people
who originated from the Northern Triangle of Central America in the past five
years, and have deported more than 800,000 of them. Many of these were children.
Between 2010 and 2014, around 130,000 minors were apprehended and more than
40,000 deported back to El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras, the three
countries that constitute the Northern Triangle.

For Trump and his supporters - as well as the Obama administration, which is
carrying out a record number of deportations right now - these almost 1 million
people were not "refugees", despite the fact, as Pedro Moreno Vasquez summarized
In XpatNation, the core reasons behind the southern migrant crisis aren't
dissimilar from the one in Europe: Guatemalans experienced an earthquake in 2012
; Honduras continues to be plagued by violence ; and El Salvador is witnessing
its bloodiest year in a decade.

Even with the violence occurring in Central America and a lost Drug War in
Mexico, the 2013 US admission ceiling for refugees for Latin American and the
Caribbean was only 4,400, according to the Department of Homeland Security. Cuba
almost filled that quota alone with 4,205 refugees in 2013. When it came to
asylum seekers, Venezuela was the top Latin American country with 687 asylees,
while Haiti was the top Caribbean nation with 496. The data is clear: certain
individuals, no matter if they are "living in hell", are just not welcome in the
United States.

The Monroe Doctrine of 1823, which stated that any foreign intervention in the
Western Hemisphere would be seen as a direct threat to the US, is still alive in
Central America ; now, it simply hides behind security initiatives and economic
development programs that solely benefit the region's elite and US interests.
Destabilization, whether in the form of civil wars in which the US took sides
based on its political ideology or a US deportation policy that created the very
gang problems plaguing countries like El Salvador, has been go-to policy in the
US for decades.

But Americans would rather ignore that our own policies are the root causes of
our migration crisis and blindly declare that we are being "invaded" from our
southern borders. It would be too hard to admit that our immigration crisis is a
result of our own policy failures, and it is easier to look at a refugee crisis
in the EU from afar and decide that we should help those people who are
thousands of miles away and deport en masse those that are here now.

These days, candidates like Trump have tapped into the fear of the US being
overrun by immigrants from Central America to justify the immediate need for
mass deportation - and that messaging seems to be working, as a recent Iowa poll
stated that close to half of the state's Republicans (and almost 75% of Trump
supporters) would want to deport all non-citizens. Why would it matter to
Republicans that families are still being detained in "family residential
centers" or that there is a humanitarian crisis in the US when it comes to how
these families are being treated? Send them home.

Even images of small children facing deprivation aren't enough to stir
compassion in some Americans, if those children are Latin American: last summer
after leaked images of children in US Border Patrol processing centers went
viral, immigration opponents tried to stop buses filled with families in
Murrieta, California, shouting with hatred at those inside. Trump may now be
willing to accept some Syrian refugees on American soil now but, given how at
least some of his supporters have greeted immigrants from Central America,
Syrians would be right to wonder how long the welcome would last.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              371 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                   Iran Daily

                          September 10, 2015 Thursday

Scott Walker: US should not accept more Syrian refugees

LENGTH: 279  words


US Republican presidential candidate and Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker says
the United States should not allow Syrian refugees to enter the country.

Walker clarified his position after refusing to address the question when asked
about it in New Hampshire earlier this week, Wisconsin Public Radio reported
Wednesday.

He told reporters during a business summit in Eau Claire, Wisconsin that
Washington should focus on dismantling the Daesh (ISIL) terrorist group to solve
the refugee crisis in Syria.

"No, we shouldn't be taking on any more Syrian refugees right now," he said. "In
the last year, America has received almost 70,000 refugees, of which nearly
2,000 are from Syria."

"So, we're doing more than any country in the world and it's got to be clear
that the problem that has to be addressed is not the refugee issue that's a
symptom, the real problem is this (Obama) administration fails to deal with
taking on ISIL," added Walker.

The presidential hopeful made the comments as Europe is dealing with its worst
refugee crisis since World War II.

The unprecedented refugee crisis in Europe escalated over the summer amid the
ongoing wars in Syria and Iraq.

The continent is now divided over how to deal with the flood of people, mainly
Syrians fleeing the war in their homeland.

Syria has been facing a foreign-backed militancy since 2011. The violence has
also forced over four million Syrians to take refuge in neighboring countries,
including Jordan and Lebanon. More than 7.2 million others have been displaced
internally, according to UN figures.

According to UN estimates, 300,000 people have left the Middle East and Africa
so far this year for a better life in Europe.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1056


                 Copyright 2015 Iran Cultural & Press Institute
                 Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.Syndigate.info
                              All Rights Reserved

                              372 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                    Press TV

                          September 10, 2015 Thursday

Scott Walker: US should not accept more Syrian refugees

LENGTH: 309  words


US Republican presidential candidate and Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker says
the United States should not allow Syrian refugees to enter the country.

Walker clarified his position after refusing to address the question when asked
about it in New Hampshire earlier this week, Wisconsin Public Radio reported
Wednesday.

He told reporters during a business summit in Eau Claire, Wisconsin that
Washington should focus on dismantling the Daesh (ISIL) terrorist group to solve
the refugee crisis in Syria.

"No, we shouldn't be taking on any more Syrian refugees right now," he said. "In
the last year, America has received almost 70,000 refugees, of which nearly
2,000 are from Syria."

"So, we're doing more than any country in the world and it's got to be clear
that the problem that has to be addressed is not the refugee issue that's a
symptom, the real problem is this (Obama) administration fails to deal with
taking on ISIL," added Walker.

The presidential hopeful made the comments as Europe is dealing with its worst
refugee crisis since World War II.

The unprecedented refugee crisis in Europe escalated over the summer amid the
ongoing wars in Syria and Iraq.

The continent is now divided over how to deal with the flood of people, mainly
Syrians fleeing the war in their homeland.

Syria has been facing a foreign-backed militancy since 2011. The violence has
also forced over four million Syrians to take refuge in neighboring countries,
including Jordan and Lebanon. More than 7.2 million others have been displaced
internally, according to UN figures.

According to UN estimates, 300,000 people have left the Middle East and Africa
so far this year for a better life in Europe.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/198/701/50/144187645184.jpg

Republican presidential candidate Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker fields
questions on July 18, 2015 in Ames, Iowa. (AFP photo)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Wire

JOURNAL-CODE: 701


                            Copyright 2015 Press TV
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              373 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                    September 9, 2015 Wednesday 5:49 PM GMT

US committed to accepting more refugees, says John Kerry

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 454 words


The United States is committed to increasing the number of refugees it is
willing to take, according to US Secretary of State John Kerry.

Following closed-door congressional meetings, Mr Kerry said President Barack
Obama has made it clear that the US wants to take a leadership role on
humanitarian issues.

"We are looking hard at the number that we can specifically manage with respect
to the crisis in Syria and Europe," he said. "That's being vetted fully right
now."

Mr Kerry met with members of the House and Senate Judiciary committees. He did
not give any specifics on the number of additional refugees the US may be
willing to take.

The US has vowed to help its European allies with the escalating migrant crisis.
Earlier this week, Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton called for
a "concerted global effort" to assist the refugees.

White House press secretary Josh Earnest said the Obama administration has been
looking at a "range of approaches" for assisting US allies with 340,000 new
arrivals from the Middle East, Africa and Asia. Many are fleeing parts of Iraq
that are under the Islamic State group's control.

While Germany braces for some 800,000 asylum seekers this year, the US has not
said if it will increase its worldwide quota for resettling refugees from
70,000. Only a fraction of those would be Syrians, who must first navigate a
multi-year application process before learning if they can start a new life in
the United States. Mr Kerry's briefings will also canvass migrant exoduses from
Central America and elsewhere.

The US resettlement process for refugees, as it stands, is slow. They can wait
around three years to find out if they can move to the United States, meaning
Washington would not be able to offer Europe much in quick assistance.

Throughout Syria's four-and-a-half-year civil war, the US has accepted only
about 1,500 Syrians - a tiny percentage of the 11.6 million people who have been
chased out of the country or uprooted from their homes.

After the fall of Saigon in 1975, the US accepted more than a million refugees
from Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos. In 1999, tens of thousands of mostly Muslim
Kosovar Albanians were flown to the US, processed at a military post and
ultimately resettled. During the Iraq war, more than 50,000 refugees were
allowed to come under a special, expedited programme for people whose religious
beliefs or past work for the US military put their lives at risk.

Asked directly if the Obama administration felt responsible to share Europe's
refugee burden, Mr Earnest stressed US support so far of 4 billion US dollars in
humanitarian aid, more than any other country has provided, and ongoing
diplomatic work to resolve Syria's conflict peacefully.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              374 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (Sinosphere)

                          September 9, 2015 Wednesday

For China, Migrant Crisis Is Someone Else's Fault, and Responsibility

BYLINE: DIDI KIRSTEN TATLOW

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 737 words



HIGHLIGHT: China is reluctant to get involved in efforts to solve humanitarian
crises that it believes are not of its own making. It sees the global refugee
crisis as a byproduct of the American and European propensity to push for regime
change in places like Syria.


Earlier this year, as war-dazed Syrians fled to Europe and the Rohingya ran from
murder in Myanmar, European diplomats suggested to their Chinese counterparts it
might be good to talk about migration. There was a perfect opportunity: the 17th
E.U.-China Summit in Brussels in June.

The Chinese demurred and suggested instead talking about the safer topic of
disability, said a European diplomat familiar with the situation who spoke on
the condition of anonymity.

The message: China is reluctant to get involved in efforts to solve humanitarian
crises that it believes are not of its own making.

Money tells the same, hands-off, story.

Since 2012, China has contributed $14 million in humanitarian aid to help solve
''civil unrest'' in Syria, about 0.1 percent of the $14 billion donated by
countries and organizations around the world, according to the United Nations
Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. That puts the world's
second-largest economy, with the world's biggest currency reserves, in 32nd
place, behind Japan (ninth, having contributed $445 million with $24 million
more pledged).

Although China sent ships to evacuate its own citizens caught up in the fighting
in Libya in 2011 and this year in Yemen, it believes the migrant crisis sweeping
Europe is mostly the fault, and responsibility, of the United States and Europe,
for trying to foment political change in countries such as Syria and Libya.

''A part is due to a minority of so-called 'democrats' in those countries, who
are determined to subvert stable authoritarian rule there,'' Tian Wenlin, a
scholar at the China Institutes of Contemporary International Relations, wrote
in People's Daily.

''The main reason, however, is that the United States and Europe took the
opportunity to carry out 'regime change,''' Mr. Tian wrote.

''In truth, the U.S. and Europe's tyrannical foreign policy is both frightening
and stupid,'' he continued. ''It has caused massive disasters in western Asia
and northern Africa that are now boomeranging on Europe and the U.S.''

But China does have responsibilities, as a party to both United Nations' refugee
agreements, the 1951 Convention and the 1967 Protocol. There are a quarter of a
million Chinese refugees and asylum seekers around the world, while about
300,000 people from other countries are refugees in China, according to the
U.N.H.C.R.,  the United Nations' refugee agency.

Asked if China had received requests from governments or organizations to assist
with the migrant crisis in the Middle East and Europe, the Chinese Ministry of
Foreign Affairs didn't answer directly, saying instead, ''China has noted the
recent immigration issue.''

''Appropriately settling the immigration issue is related to the economic
development, social stability and integration process in Europe,'' the ministry
statement said. ''Striking a blow against illegal immigration activities and
resolving humanitarian crises is the common wish of international society.''

''Immigration questions are complicated and sensitive. Their roots lie in uneven
development and regional instability,'' it added.  ''We believe Europe and
relevant countries can unite and respond to this major challenge and
appropriately solve related issues to maintain regional security and
stability.''

In any case, the chatter on social media suggests that many Chinese oppose
taking in Syrians, who make up 53 percent of the thousands fleeing to Europe.

Another 14 percent are from Afghanistan, while 7 percent are from Eritrea and
most of the rest from other African countries, according to the U.N.H.C.R.

So far Chinese are ''overwhelmingly against the idea, saying China is not
responsible for turbulence in the Middle East, many Chinese people are still
living in poverty and that the refugees won't want to come to China anyway,''
the Hong Kong Free Press reported.

But some disagreed. One poster, frankkee, on the popular Tianya forum noted that
China and Israel's friendship began over the safe haven China offered to Jews
fleeing Hitler, and much of America's talent came from its millions of refugees
from Europe. ''Taking in some refugees from the Middle East,'' wrote frankkee,
"will certainly do more good than harm.''

Smugglers cast 5,000 people adrift on Andaman Sea. Read stories of survivors:
http://t.co/R4Gh203ywq http:/pic.twitter.com/USQ5X0se1Z

- United Nations (@UN)7 Sep 15

Follow Didi Kirsten Tatlow on Twitter @dktatlow.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2015 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              375 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                    Prince George Citizen (British Columbia)

                          September 9, 2015 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

U.S. vows to help Europe but unclear if it will share migrant strain

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 261 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Obama administration wants to help its allies across the Atlantic with an
escalatingmigrant crisis, but is unlikely to open America's doors to vast
numbers of Syrian and other refugees arriving each day by the thousands in
Europe. While Germany braces for some 800,000 asylum seekers this year, many of
whom are fleeing Syria's civil war, the U.S. isn't saying if it will increase
its worldwide quota for resettling refugees from 70,000. Only a fraction of
those would be Syrians, who must first navigate a multiyear application process
before learning if they can start a new life in the United States.

Secretary of State John Kerry plans to brief members of the House and Senate
Judiciary committees today about how many Syrian refugees the U.S. is willing to
take in.

When it comes to the current migrant challenge, the U.S. and Europe are clearly
in different places. Whereas the United States is separated by an ocean from the
Middle East and North Africa, Europe's place adjacent to one of the world's most
volatile regions makes it an obvious destination for people fleeing war,
persecution and poverty. And there are no gut-wrenching images of refugees
drowning while trying to swim or smuggle their way across 3,000 miles of open
sea.

Still, a spokesman for the National Security Council said Monday the U.S. was
"actively considering" steps to alleviate the situation in Europe, where more
than 340,000 people from the Middle East, Africa and Asia now have arrived.
Beyond Syria, many are also fleeing parts of Iraq that are under the Islamic
State's control.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 Prince George Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved

                              376 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                     The Times & Transcript (New Brunswick)

                          September 9, 2015 Wednesday

U.S. vows to help Europe with refugee crisis, but unclear how

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 620 words


WASHINGTON * The Obama administration wants to help its allies across the
Atlantic with an escalating migrant crisis, but is unlikely to open America's
doors to vast numbers of Syrian and other refugees arriving each day by the
thousands in Europe.

While Germany braces for some 800,000 asylum seekers this year, many of whom are
fleeing Syria's civil war, the U.S. isn't saying if it will increase its
worldwide quota for resettling refugees from 70,000. Only a fraction of those
would be Syrians, who must first navigate a multi-year application process
before learning if they can start a new life in the United States.

When it comes to the current migrant challenge, the U.S. and Europe are clearly
in different places. Whereas the United States is separated by an ocean from the
Middle East and North Africa, Europe's place adjacent to one of the world's most
volatile regions makes it an obvious destination for people fleeing war,
persecution and poverty. And there are no gut-wrenching images of refugees
drowning while trying to swim or smuggle their way across 3,000 miles of open
sea.

Still, a spokesman for the National Security Council said Monday the U.S. was
"actively considering" steps to alleviate the situation in Europe, where more
than 340,000 people from the Middle East, Africa and Asia now have arrived.
Beyond Syria, many are also fleeing parts of Iraq that are under the Islamic
State group's control.

The spokesman, Peter Boogaard, said the steps could include "refugee
resettlement" and White House press secretary Josh Earnest on Tuesday said a
"range of approaches" was being studied. But as for taking more Syrians and
others in, Earnest said: "There is a process for doing this."

That process, as it currently stands, is slow. Refugees wait around three years
to find out if they can move to the United States, meaning Washington wouldn't
be able to offer quick assistance. Throughout Syria's 4 1/2-year civil war, the
U.S. has accepted only about 1,500 Syrians - a tiny percentage of the 11.6
million people who have been chased out of the country or uprooted from their
homes by the conflict.

On Monday, Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Rodham Clinton called for a
"concerted global effort" to assist the refugees, in an interview with The
Associated Press. Washington has spearheaded such efforts previously.

After the fall of Saigon in 1975, the U.S. accepted more than a million refugees
from Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos. In 1999, tens of thousands of mostly Muslim
Kosovar Albanians were flown to the U.S., processed at a military post and
ultimately resettled. During the Iraq war, more than 50,000 refugees were
allowed to come under a special, expedited program for people whose religious
beliefs or past work for the U.S. military put their lives at risk.

But what those situations involved and Syria's may lack is a sense of U.S.
responsibility. Refugee operations in Southeast Asia followed years of U.S.
warfare there, as did the decision to take in tens of thousands of Iraqis over
the last decade. Many Americans will feel differently about taking large numbers
of Syrians displaced by a war that the United States has tried hard to avoid.

Asked directly if the Obama administration felt responsible to share Europe's
refugee burden, Earnest stressed U.S. support thus far: $4 billion provided in
humanitarian aid, more than any other country, and ongoing diplomatic work to
resolve Syria's conflict peacefully. The diplomacy appears nowhere near ending
violence that started in 2011 with a government crackdown on political
opponents, spawning an armed insurgency, and led to Islamic State extremists
seizing much of the country. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2015 Times &; Transcript (Moncton)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 The Times & Transcript.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              377 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     September 8, 2015 Tuesday 12:05 AM GMT

We asked all 22 presidential candidates to define a US refugee policy. Few had
clear answers;
The Guardian pressed every contender for the White House on how they would
confront shocking realities from abroad. In the midst of a campaign charged by
immigration, just two called for taking on more refugees

BYLINE: Sabrina Siddiqui in Plymouth, New Hampshire

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1741 words


It was an image that shocked the conscience of the world: the lifeless body of a
Syrian toddler, washed ashore on a Turkish beach.

Related: UN agencies 'broke and failing' in face of ever-growing refugee crisis

The drowning of three-year-old Aylan Kurdi has become emblematic of the refugee
crisis and the plight of the hundreds of thousands of people who have loaded
into boats just this year to risk the dangerous journey to Europe, seeking
primarily to escape conflicts in the Middle East and North Africa.

As Europe struggles to host the millions of refugees who have fled war-torn
Syria in particular, the image of Kurdi has posed a fundamental question to
America: should the US open its borders to more?

Last week, the Guardian contacted the campaigns of every candidate for the White
House - 17 Republicans and five Democrats - to ask two questions. Should the US
be accepting more refugees? And, as president, how would each candidate define
US policy toward those seeking asylum from war-torn and impoverished countries?

But even as presidential candidates offer foreign policy pitches through a lens
of moral leadership, just one of 22 contenders - former Maryland governor Martin
O'Malley - said unequivocally that the US should take in more refugees and put
forward a specific number. In a statement issued on Thursday, the Democrat
called on the government to accept 65,000 refugees from Syria over the next
year.

We - the nation of immigrants and refugees - can do more

Martin O'Malley

"If Germany - a country with one-fourth our population - can accept 800,000
refugees this year, certainly we - the nation of immigrants and refugees - can
do more," O'Malley said in a statement.

Wisconsin governor Scott Walker, a Republican, suggested on Sunday that no
additional refugees should be taken in until the US contends with the threat
posed by the Islamic State.

"What we should be doing is dealing with Isis. Until we start dealing directly
with Isis, we're avoiding the core of the problem," Walker said in response to a
question by the Guardian during a campaign stop in New Hampshire. "The problem
is that Isis is running amok in these parts of the world. The United States
needs to step up and deal with it."

Ohio governor John Kasich, another Republican candidate for president, took a
different view earlier on Sunday by acknowleding that the US bore some of the
responsibility for accepting refugees. But the responsibility, he added,
"fundamentally falls on Europe".

"I think we do have a responsibility in terms of taking some more folks in,
making sure they assimilate, and at the same time helping people to actually be
safe as they move," Kasich said in an appearance on ABC. "That's logistical
support."

Several campaigns, including those of top contenders such as Democratic
frontrunner Hillary Clinton and her closest challenger, Bernie Sanders, and
Republicans Jeb Bush and Marco Rubio, did not respond to repeated requests for
comment on the specific question of whether the US should accept more refugees.

A spokeswoman for Clinton pointed to a Friday interview in which Clinton
addressed the crisis more broadly, calling it "heartbreaking" while urging more
action across the globe to alleviate the flow of refugees into Europe.

"I think that the larger Middle East, I think Asia - I think everybody should
step up and say we have to help these people," the former secretary of state
told MSNBC. "And I would hope that under the aegis of the United Nations, led by
the security council, and certainly by the United States, which has been such a
generous nation in the past... we would begin to try to find ways to help people
get to safety in other lands. However, that does not solve the problem, and the
problem is one that, the entire world now sees, doesn't just affect the Syrian
people - it affects all of us."

Rubio's campaign had declined to comment for this article, but the Florida
senator said he would be "open" to more refugees when asked directly in an
interview with Boston Herald radio on Monday.

"We've always been a country that's been willing to accept people who have been
displaced," Rubio said. "I would be open to that if it can done in a way that
allows us to ensure that among them are not infiltrated - people who were, you
know, part of a terrorist organisation that are using this crisis."

He added that the "vast and overwhelmingly majority" of refugees are not
terrorists, but the US must nonetheless remain cautious in its approach.

Rubio also said he was concerned about displaced Syrian Christians and called
for a way to "provide for their short term" while putting in place a strategy
that would allow for them to eventually return home.

Republicans, including Rubio, have largely placed the blame on the Obama
administration, citing the president's reluctance to take more definitive action
against Bashar al-Assad's regime.

Louisiana's governor, Bobby Jindal, also pinned the issue on what he called a
"leading from behind" strategy on Obama's part. In a statement to the Guardian,
the Republican also expressly ruled out taking in more refugees, which he said
would be a "ridiculous" approach to resolving the crisis.

"Let's call this Syrian disaster exactly what it is - the result of President
Obama's leading from behind strategy - he drew the red line and then backed
down," Jindal said.

No other country provides anywhere near the amount of assistance for hurting
people around the world as we do

Bobby Jindal

"And no, the answer is not for America to increase the number of refugees we
take in. We are already the most compassionate and generous country in the world
and it is not even close."

"No other country provides anywhere near the amount of assistance for hurting
people around the world as we do. But the idea that we can fix all these
problems by just accepting the world's refugees is ridiculous. We simply have to
get a new commander in chief, fast."

The refugee crisis is as politically charged as issues come during a
presidential election in which immigration and national security have emerged as
flashpoints - and in which Donald Trump has uncovered the toxicity among
Republicans of how to deal with the roughly 11 million undocumented immigrants
living in the US.

But even Trump, the GOP frontrunner who has positioned himself as the face of
the conservative movement against illegal immigration, said the US should
"possibly" accept more refugees.

"The answer is possibly yes, possibly yes," Trump told MSNBC last week. "So
horrible on a humanitarian basis when you see that. It's incredible what's going
on."

He added, nonetheless, that the US has no shortage of its own problems -
particularly at the border. "It is a huge problem and we should help as much as
possible, but we do have to fix our own country," Trump said.

Other Republicans have raised national security concerns over opening up the US
to more refugees. On Sunday, Carly Fiorina said the US cannot relax its criteria
for letting refugees in and warned against those who might be affiliated with
terrorist activity.

"The United States, I believe, has done its fair share in terms of humanitarian
aid," the former Hewlett Packard CEO said on CBS's Face the Nation.

"We are having to be very careful about who we let enter this country from these
war-torn regions to ensure that terrorists are not coming here."

The Kentucky senator Rand Paul sounded similar alarms, citing the US
government's acceptance of refugees from Iraq and Somalia - some of whom he said
now wished to harm the country.

I don't think it's a good idea to develop populations within the US who don't
like the US, so we have to be selective

Rand Paul

"We are a welcoming nation, and we have accepted a lot of refugees, and I think
we will continue to do so. But we also can't accept the whole world, so I think
there are some limits," Paul told CNN.

The US has accepted only 1,500 Syrian refugees so far, and the White House said
last week it did not anticipate any changes to its current policy.

The secretary of state, John Kerry ,acknowledged that "a lot more" could be done
to protect the stream of refugees, but said American efforts would remain
focused on helping existing refugee camps in other nations.

"I'm not talking about taking [in refugees] on a permanent basis," Kerry told
the Huffington Post. "We have huge refugee camps in Jordan, in Lebanon. They're
spread more in the population.

"In Turkey, we have refugee camps. It may be that we have to set up some sort of
refugee camp structure for the time being in order to deal with it."

On Sunday the former British foreign secretary David Miliband, who is now based
in New York as head of the International Rescue Committee, called on the US to
bring out "the kind of leadership America has shown on these kind of issues" in
the past.

"The United States has always been a leader in refugee resettlement but 1,500
people over four years is such a minuscule contribution to tackling the human
side of this problem," Miliband said on ABC.

Related: Syrian refugee crisis: senators call on US to take in thousands more

The Obama administration has repeatedly pointed out that the US has provided
more humanitarian assistance to Syria amid the conflict, at roughly $4bn, than
any other country. Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, told reporters
last week that there "is certainly capacity in Europe" to deal with the flood of
refugees.

Earnest rejected Republican suggestions that a more "muscular" approach to the
Syrian civil war would have prevented the crisis.

"There's not really much evidence to substantiate that claim," he said. "You
certainly could make the case that that might have led to a different outcome -
it might have hastened the departure of President Assad, but it also would have
subjected the United States to a whole host of more significant risks, including
more significant outlays of funds to fund essentially a war in Syria."

Lincoln Chafee, the former Rhode Island governor who is polling below 1% in the
Democratic race, said the US "unfortunately bears a great deal of responsibility
for the refugee crisis because of our invasion of Iraq and the spread of chaos
in the region as a result".

He stopped short, however, of saying more refugees should be taken in, in his
statement to the Guardian. Only two of the 22 candidates vying to hold the most
powerful position in world policy - O'Malley and Kasich - appeared ready to go
that far.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              378 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                    Press TV

                           September 8, 2015 Tuesday

Obama considering 'range of approaches' on refugee crisis

LENGTH: 447  words


The Obama administration is considering a range of options to respond to the
escalating refugee crisis in the Middle East and Europe, a White House spokesman
said.

"The administration is actively considering a range of approaches to be more
responsive to the global refugee crisis, including with regard to refugee
resettlement," Peter Boogaard, a spokesman for the National Security Council,
said Monday.

The White House gave no details on what measures it might take, but Boogaard
said America's refugee resettlement policy was under review, including the
possibility of opening the door to more refugees.

The United States, which as of now accepts up to 70,000 people a year, has been
accused by critics of being slow in responding to the current global refugee
crisis.

Boogaard said the US is in regular contact with countries in the Middle East and
Europe most impacted by the refugee flows.

Two girls of a refugee family smile as they are greeted with presents as they
arrived at the train station in Munich on September 7, 2015. (AFP photo)

As conflicts in the Middle East, especially in Syria, have escalated, a growing
number of people are leaving their homelands in hope of a better life in Europe.

The often-deadly journeys, which can involve crossing the Mediterranean on
rickety boats, have resulted in graphic images across Europe and the Middle East
that have shocked the world.

Aylan Kurdi, 3, was washed up on the Turkish beach near the resort town of
Bodrum last week.

Washington has committed to accepting between 5,000 and 8,000 Syrian refugees
before the end of 2016.

David Miliband, president of the International Rescue Committee, said last week
the US should take 65,000 -- half of the 130,000 which the UN refugee agency
wants to resettle by then.

"The US has historically been the world leader in recognizing the moral
obligation to resettle refugees. But in the four years of the Syria crisis there
has been inertia rather than leadership," Miliband, Britain's former foreign
secretary, added.

Migrants struggle to board a train at the railway station in Budapest, Hungary.
(AP Photo)

Tens of thousands of refugees flooded Germany and Austria over the weekend after
being stranded in Hungary for days.

Some 5,000 migrants arrived on Sunday at the train station in Munich, according
to German police. The country's interior ministry said around 8,000 arrived in
southern Germany the day before. The government has said it will accept 800,000
applications for asylum.

The United Nations estimates 300,000 people have left the Middle East and North
Africa for Europe this year, but 2,500 have died in the attempt, the majority
during dangerous voyages across the Mediterranean.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Wire

JOURNAL-CODE: 701


                            Copyright 2015 Press TV
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              379 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                            September 7, 2015 Monday

The economic benefits of opening borders to refugees

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 577 words


The images and scenes of the refugee crisis which have unfolded over the past
few years, culminating in what we ve seen over the past number of weeks, should
be etched in the memories of all those who saw them. It is, and will further
become, a mark in our history.

Yet it is not the first time humanity has seen such things.

Our history of humanity has been marked by the ebb and flow of the movements of
people. Either searching for something better or fleeing oppression or war, it
has been ever present in our landscape.

From our earliest times we moved from one place to another.

From central Africa to Southern Europe, expanding across Asia and the Pacific
Ocean.

Always being driven by the idea that over the horizon lies something better.

Our own history is the story of refugees and emigrants.

Driven by great famines, disease and economic recessions we have populated
nearly every corner of the globe.

The history of the United States is the very essence of the movement of peoples.

They like to say that the railroads built America.

In fact it was the Irish, Chinese, Germans, Eastern Europeans and whole host of
other peoples that built America.

Back-breaking labour from dawn till dusk.

They left behind their countries, their homes and even their languages.

They hoped for a better life.

In all of this what seems to have been forgotten the most is that these are
people. People just like you and me.

They want to find something better.

In November of last year University College London released a study on the
economic impact of immigration within the U.K.

They found that  European immigrants to the UK have paid more in taxes than they
received in benefits, helping to relieve the fiscal burden on UK-born workers
and contributing to the financing of public services .

The economic benefits also increase when highly skilled or educated people come
in.

The cost of their education has been fronted by another country.

The receiving country then gets this talent without having paid through their
education system to get it.

Young people and those with families also bring benefits.

More young people coming into the system who can work, pay taxes and also help
ease the burden on nationals within the country.

The youth aspect also has the added benefit of adding to the ratio of workers to
retired people and changing the age pyramid.

In recent years the U.S. president Barack Obama has given amnesties to illegal
immigrants from Ireland and Hispanic countries.

This will have impacts in the long term as skilled workers leave low paid jobs,
which are the typical port of call for most who find themselves in that
position.

It gives them free leave to attain to higher paying jobs which in turn will
mean, in theory, a larger tax take.

There is a misconception too among the public, and in some cases, politicians,
that this will lead to the price of wages dropping as more low paid workers come
into the country. Studies have shown that this impact is, in fact, negligible.

A report commissioned two years ago by the Integration Centre Ireland and
written by Jim Power and Peter Szlovak also stated  any suggestion of welfare
tourism is unfounded since successful applicants must demonstrate a link to the
country (most commonly they need to be in employment for a period) .

So while we look on at crowds walking highways or camping in train stations let
s not forget that these are people.

They want for something that we can give them through jobs and integration,
hope.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              380 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                Sunderland Echo

                            September 7, 2015 Monday

Europe must unite to help

LENGTH: 251  words


Once before, Britain along with other European countries failed to address the
asylum needs of a people fleeing persecution, branding many of them as economic
migrants.

Many of those people ended up in camps: Bergen-Belsen, Dachau and Auschwitz.

A collective amnesia seems to have developed about the millions of refugees
fleeing the ravages of war-torn Europe.

Britain too faced starvation and a chronic shortage of essential resources for
survival as did the rest of Europe at the end of  the Second World War.

The people of Europe were saved because governments accepted the moral
responsibility for all people, allies and ex-enemies alike.

We acted together, empowered by the generosity of the United States of America.

Europe now has another moral crisis as people flee from war, tyranny and
economic misery in the Middle East and North Africa.

The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, is right when she says: "If Europe fails
on the question of refugees, its close connection with universal civil rights
will be destroyed."

We need political vision and bravery. It is time to support Merkel's call for a
common European asylum policy with an immediate collective response to ease the
misery of refugees fleeing to Europe, including a fairer distribution of asylum
seekers and coordinated reprisals against people smugglers.

We need to address the political injustices across North Africa and the Middle
East for which we carry much historic responsibility.

Ian G L Jones,

North East Liberal Democrats (chairman)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NPSE


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              381 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             Today's Zaman (Turkey)

                            September 6, 2015 Sunday

Aylan Kurdi's call on humanity

LENGTH: 647  words


It conveyed an extraordinarily moving message that drew attention to the
tragedies of the refugees moving en masse from Africa and the Middle East to
Western Europe, which previous images of thousands drowned in the Mediterranean
or otherwise killed could not achieve. It prompted people all over the world to
think about what lies at the root of this tragedy and what can be done about it.

The main factors that have triggered the current flows of refugees are the
global inequalities and injustices that have become visible to all through the
revolution of global communication. The gap between relative prosperity and
security in North America and Western Europe on one side and abject poverty and
insecurity in Asia, Africa and Central America on the other is surely the root
cause of refugee movements. It is quite understandable that people are willing
to risk their lives in order to reach countries where they hope to escape
poverty and live in relative security. One also has to consider the role played
by illicit human trafficking, which has become a bigger business than drugs and
weapons smuggling, in broadening the flows of refugees.

Another factor is the disrupted social structures of many societies in Asia,
Africa and Central America caused by foreign interventions that left them in
misery and war. Who can deny the legacy of colonialism? Who can deny that the
US's war on Iraq in 2003 caused destruction left millions in Iraq and Syria in
desperation?

Perhaps the best commentary on the causes of the current mass flows of refugees
and their ensuing tragedies came from a friend, a former Istanbul bureau chief
for the New York Times, Stephen Kinzer, who wrote a piece published in the
Boston Globe on Aug. 30 titled Today's refugee crisis is the price for
yesterday's interventions.

He wrote: Refugees flee to escape poverty and violence -- but why are their
countries so poor and violent? Many have been victimized by foreign
interventions that grotesquely deformed their history. Now the former subjects
are pushing into the lands of their former masters. It is the ultimate payback
for colonialism.  Many come from Syria, where a ghastly war fueled by outsiders
has taken 250,000 lives and made one-quarter of the population homeless. The
second-largest group is from Iraq, which the United States threw into chaos with
its 2003 invasion. The third group fleeing along this route is from Afghanistan,
which like Iraq was torn apart after an American invasion. If the United States
had not crashed into those countries and helped destroy their societies,
thousands might now be safely at home who are driven instead to risk their lives
on the unarmed road of flight.

It is high time for humanity to think about what can be done and act
accordingly, to at least alleviate the global inequalities and injustices that
do not allow anyone to live in peace. It is unfortunate that Western countries,
where enmity toward immigrants and refugees, particularly Muslims, is on the
rise, are more often focusing their efforts on stopping the flows of immigration
rather than finding solutions.

It is high time for humanity to find a way to bring an end to the violence that
has turned Iraq, and particularly Syria, into hell. Aylan's father Abdullah
Kurdi has called, heartbreakingly, for just this. It is unfortunate, however,
that the West, led by the US, has remained mostly indifferent to the destruction
in the Middle East after having played such a major role in it. The West is
surely confronted with a grave ethical problem.

It is true that Ankara's regional policies, particularly those toward the Syrian
crisis, have had many faults and must be criticized. It is true that the rights
and means provided for the 2-million-strong refugees coming mainly from Syria
and Iraq are far from satisfactory. Turkey has not, however, turned its back on
its humanitarian duties.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2015 Today's Zaman
                              All Rights Reserved

                              382 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                           September 3, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

What Britain has forgotten...

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 281 words


ONCE before, Britain, along with other European countries, failed to address the
asylum needs of a people fleeing persecution, branding many of them as economic
migrants. Those people ended up in camps: Bergen-Belsen, Dachau and Auschwitz.

A collective amnesia seems to have developed about the millions of European
refugees fleeing the ravages of war-torn Europe in 1945: stateless, homeless,
starving and freezing in the winters of 1945 and 46.

We seem to have forgotten that Britain too faced starvation and a chronic
shortage of essential resources for survival, as did the rest of Europe at the
end of the Second World War.

The people of Europe were saved because governments accepted the moral
responsibility for all peoples, allies and ex-enemies alike.

We acted together empowered by the generosity of the United States of America
via the Marshall Plan.

Europe now has another moral crisis as people flee from war, tyranny and
economic misery in the Middle East and North Africa.

The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, is right when she says: "If Europe fails
on the question of refugees, its close connection with universal civil rights
will be destroyed."

We need political vision and bravery. It is time to support Merkel's call for a
common European asylum policy with an immediate collective response to ease the
misery of refugees fleeing to Europe, including a fairer distribution of asylum
seekers and co-ordinated reprisals against people smugglers.

We need to address the political injustices across North Africa and the Middle
East for which we carry much historic responsibility: Palestine, Iraq and Syria
to name but three.

IAN G L JONES, Chairman of North-east Liberal Democrats

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EGM


                    Copyright 2015 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              383 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           September 3, 2015 Thursday
                                Ontario Edition

'Human' up, Canada

BYLINE: F. Samson

SECTION: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 118 words

DATELINE: Richmond, B.C.


Refugees from Syria and North Africa trying to make their way to countries in
central and northern Europe are facing horrifying conditions (Helpless In
Hungary, Sept. 2).

What does it take for the Canadian government, and the governments of the United
States, Britain, France and others, to respond in a genuinely humanitarian way,
and without lengthy processes of setting up refugee camps in which people
languish?

Have we learned no lessons from the tragedies of the Second World War, Rwanda,
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Sudan?

We tsk-tsk years after the fact, and point fingers at others, or turn away in
shame. It's time we "human" up, and push our country to do something now.

F. Samson, Richmond, B.C.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2015 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              384 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                    September 3, 2015 Thursday 12:21 PM GMT

Why I swam across the Mediterranean in solidarity with refugees;
Contrary to the cruel attitudes of today, 70 years ago the world opened its arms
when it was Europeans fleeing crisis - and benefited as a result

BYLINE: Nina Hall

SECTION: COMMENT IS FREE

LENGTH: 824 words


Last Friday, I swam from Turkey to Greece in solidarity with the refugees who
are making the perilous journey across the Mediterranean into Europe. I crossed
from Kas, a Turkish resort town where European tourists flock in the summer,
into Greek waters near Kastellorizo, a Greek island 5km kilometres off the coast
of Turkey. The crossing is near where many refugees have crossed the
Mediterranean in recent months. The situation here is tense. Earlier in August,
refugees were locked in a stadium on Kos and the Greek government sent riot
police to deal with refugee protests.

So why did I do this swim? I was motivated, first, by a deep concern that
thousands of people are drowning off the coast of Italy and Libya, being
tear-gassed in Macedonia, blocked by razor wire on the Hungarian border. I am
concerned that many European governments are responding with force to people who
have risked everything for the sake of survival.

Many have faced brutal conflict in Syria or repressive governments in Eritrea. I
talked with a Syrian refugee in Berlin who described getting on a small,
overloaded boat in the Aegean last August. He left at midnight, and during the
crossing the boat filled with water and there was no way of bailing it out.
Those on board were saved by Greek authorities. Thousands of others have not
been so fortunate.

My swim was nothing compared to the distance, uncertainties and challenges many
refugees face on their way to Europe

I am also driven by my own research on the evolution of global refugee and
migration governance. In times of great need for Europe, the rest of the world
was willing to take European refugees and migrants. Let's rewind 70 years, when
Europe was devastated by war and had massive refugee populations. What did the
world do? In 1950, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees was created and the Refugee Convention was established the following
year; thousands of European refugees were then accepted on to the soil of other
states. These institutions oblige states to offer protection and assistance to
refugees. A lesser-known fact: the Refugee Convention was meant only for
refugees fleeing persecution in European countries; it was created to help
Europe. In fact, it was only in 1967 that the limited geographic scope was
removed and people from Africa, Asia and the Americas could also be considered
refugees. Today, the Refugee Convention legally obliges Europe to offer
protection and assistance to all those entering its territory. Refugees cannot
be returned to their country of origin.

After the second world war, Latin America, North America, Australia and New
Zealand also accepted European migrants. In 1951 the US established what became
the International Organisation for Migration, which helped people migrate from
southern Europe to Australia and the Americas. In fact, European migrants have
for centuries benefited from being able to move offshore. In the 19th and 20th
centuries, waves of migrants left the United Kingdom, Ireland, Italy, Spain and
Greece. Some fled persecution or famine - think of the millions of Irish people
who emigrated after the potato famine. Some looked for better job opportunities
in cities from Sydney to Chicago. What is overlooked in current debates is how
much Europe benefited from the creation of global refugee and migration
institutions after the war and the openness of other countries to accept
refugees and migrants. Europe should do the same today.

Related: Angela Merkel's humane stance on immigration is a lesson to us all |
Will Hutton

I am driven by a hope that those of us living in Europe will view refugees as
beneficial to society. European leaders should view this "crisis" as an
opportunity to benefit from refugees' skills. Europe needs workers, skilled and
unskilled (migrants and refugees often do the jobs that no other locals want to
do), and the people coming to Europe today have many assets. Research suggests
that migration generally has a positive effect on economic growth.

The Syrian refugee I met in Berlin had studied English literature and was
planning to pursue tertiary studies at Wing's, which offers online university
courses free to refugees. His brother is a dental technician and last week began
working in Berlin.

My swim from Turkey to Greece was only a few kilometres long, and nothing
compared to the distance, uncertainties and challenges that many refugees face
on their way to Europe. European leaders should realise that refugees are far
from being just a burden to taxpayers, but bring great benefits. European
governments also have a legal and moral responsibility to assist refugees. They
are legally obliged to do so by the Refugee Convention and by the historical
record. Europe and its people once benefitted enormously from others' openness -
now it's time European leaders stopped using force, opened up Europe's borders,
and all of us living in Europe welcomed refugees.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              385 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                Vanguard (Lagos)

                                August 28, 2015

Those Setting Fires in Other Countries Can't Complain [opinion]

BYLINE: Owei Lakemfa

LENGTH: 1021 words


EUROPE is in panic. No, not because of tumbling stocks over what they see as
China 'slowing down'. This itself is intriguing; fanatical prophets and apostles
of market forces, begging the Chinese Government to intervene in the Stock
Market. The panic is about the tidal waves of migrants from war torn countries,
surviving the seas, especially the Mediterranean, to make landfall on European
coasts.

The mighty armies of Europe and their American allies seem helpless in fighting
this 'invasion' which in reality, is an artificial Tsunami by the West. When
Europe was setting fires in other countries, causing panic, incredible human
suffering, destruction of childhood and family, devastating towns and cities,
and triggering famine and massacres, it might not have realised that the
millions uprooted would head for its shores. All these for parochial reasons of
getting rid of governments considered anti-West, and laying hands on their
wealth.

Over 270,000 migrants crossed the Mediterranean sea into Europe in the first
seven months of this year with 104,000 landing in Italy, and financially
bankrupt Greece receiving 164,000. Over 2,000 refugees perished trying to make
this perilous journey to unknown lands to seek refuge amongst people, whose
languages they do not speak, whose religion, they may not share and whose
culture is alien.

Many are Syrians whose civil war has displaced over 7 million, with over 3
million as refugees in neigbouring countries. About 1.15 million of them are
taking shelter in Lebanon, a million in Turkey and over 600,000 in small Jordan.
With the civil war still raging, it means more asylum seekers from Syria will
pour into Europe.

Syria under President Bashar al-Assad might not have been a model country, but
at least, it fed its people, children went to school with some assured future,
and there was security of live and property including for the minority
Christians. So what, or who triggered the conflict? Ostensibly, following the
'Arab spring' there was a protest in the city of Homs in March, 2011. Then
rapidly, unofficial armies emerged declaring a jihad against the government.

The most notorious today is the Islamic State (ISIS) which has since declared a
caliphate over parts of Syria and Iraq. The former Director of the American
Defence Intelligence Agency, Lt Gen Michael Flynn revealed that ISIS was created
by the United States to unite the majority Sunni Muslims against al-Bashar. He
also disclosed that another terrorist group that triggered the Syrian war, the
Jabha al-Nusra was funded and trained by America. The main training of ISIS was
in Jordan in 2012.

Also, events in British courts have exposed that country and Europe as helping
to establish, train and fund terrorist groups like ISIS and al-Nusra. Bherlin
Gildo, Swedish and a well known face in al-Nusra propaganda tapes who fought in
Syria and took photographs with Syrian corpses, and child soldiers, was passing
through Heathrow Airport, London in October, 2014.

He was arrested and charged with terrorism. But Gildo's lawyers asked the
British intelligence to disclose how it directly and indirectly armed the same
terrorist groups their client was accused of supporting. The prosecution's
expert, Dr. Wilkinson also admitted that the Syrian terrorist groups were
trained, armed and funded by the United States, Turkey and Saudi Arabia. An
embarrassed British Government quickly withdrew the case and freed Gildo.

A second case concerned terror suspect, Moazzem Begg who had been detained for
three years by the Americans in the Bagram Prison, Afghanistan and Guantanamo
Bay. From October, 2014 the British detained him for seven months before
dragging him to court on seven charges of terrorism which carries fifteen years
imprisonment. But an exasperated Begg disclosed that he had briefed the British
intelligence, M16 before his trips to Syria, and had been debriefed when he
returned. Which meant that he might actually be a British spy. An embarrassed
British Government set him free.

This week, over 4,000 refugees braved the seas to land in Italy. They were
mainly Libyans fleeing a once united and prosperous country that was bombed into
the Stone Age by NATO. Nobody knows how many governments exist in Libya today. I
know at least five: those in Tobruk and Tripoli, the two main rivals in
Benghazi, and the ISIS who have made Sirte their capital in Libya.

No matter what is said about Muammar Ghadaffi's shortcomings, which can be
legion, there are certain indisputable facts. Libya under him was a united and
prosperous country that had perhaps the best welfare system in the world.
Education, healthcare, shelter and electricity were free and a right. Petrol
(PMS) was virtually free and the women got generous child support. Ghadaffi was
a patriot and Pan Africanist, not a sellout or religious fanatic living on a
diet of lunacy as the present crop leading pieces of the country.

He defended the Palestinian cause, but was not a terrorist. Clearly the
terrorists are those who executed him on behalf of their Western bosses, and the
West itself which is crying over the Libyan refugees. Libya was the destination
for many from the underdeveloped world, seeking better and qualitative lives.
Today, Libyans risk the seas to be refugees in other lands. After Ghadaffi,
Libyan arms were passed on to ISIS in Iraq and Syria, the Al-Qeda in Mali, and
Boko Haram in Nigeria.

Sadam Hussein was the darling of the West. He engaged in a costly eight-year war
against Iran on its behalf. He was tough, but was not a terrorist. The West
turned against him. Under the false claim, principally by Britain and United
States that he had weapons of mass destruction, Europe and America invaded Iraq,
reduced it to rubble, stole a lot of its oil, and handed the country to
gangsters and separatists including the ISIS. So why would Europe weep that
Iraqi refugees are on the move to its shores?

More desperate refugees are headed for Europe, the Yemenis may soon join them.
The pity is not for those who lit those fires; it is for the victims, and the
rest of the world which may not know peace for generations.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              386 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           August 19, 2015 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CAUSE AND EFFECT;
THE UNITED STATES OWNS PART OF EUROPE'S MIGRANT PROBLEM

BYLINE: Dan Simpson

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 687 words


The biggest problem of Europe, the Middle East and North Africa at the moment is
massive migration.

It is a result of American direct and indirect war-making in recent years in
those regions. Most Americans regard the problem as someone else's. We get away
with it because people don't think the matter through.

The United States is responsible for two aspects of the problem. The first is
that we have massively disrupted the societies and economies of the countries
that are producing the refugees through war. The second source of our
responsibility is that our role in the overthrow of the government in Libya
turned that country into a rat's nest of chaos and non-government. The result is
that Libya has come to serve as the jumping-off point for the boatloads of
African and other refugees jamming their way into Southern Europe and even
trying to cross the English Channel.

A quick glance at the countries of origin of the refugees make America's role
clear. They are Afghans, Iraqis, Libyans and Syrians, nationals of countries
where we have tried to determine what government should be in power, including
by raining countless bombs and drone-mounted missiles down on them. In each of
these countries, America has destroyed order and the economy, making life
unbearable and employment unobtainable. Put another way, we have turned
Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya and Syria into countries that people are desperate to
escape, no longer able to imagine their lives there given the dangerous, lawless
cauldrons the countries have become.

In Afghanistan, the original punishment of the country for having served as the
host of the 9/11 attacks on the United States is fully comprehensible and
justifiable. Having troops there 14 years later, still trying to determine
through military means what party rules the country, is not justifiable, or even
comprehensible, unless one subscribes to the theory that America is totally
dependent on and run by the military-industrial complex. Or there is a
Shakespearian king's advice to his son and successor "to busy giddy minds with
foreign quarrels," which seems to tempt American presidents.

Iraq is the same. The first Gulf War was justifiable because Saddam Hussein's
Iraq had seized Kuwait, a sovereign state. George W. Bush carried out his
invasion of Iraq in 2003 as the only means to be reelected, as a "war
president." Unfortunately we are still there, trying to re-arrange the furniture
by military force 12 years later.

Syria is difficult. Bashar Assad is definitely not a philosopher-king. On the
other hand, our efforts through intermediaries to get rid of him have given rise
to an increasingly credible Islamic State that appears to be more difficult than
Ebola to get rid of.

Nor would anyone argue that Moammar Gadhafi wasn't a tyrant. But now there is no
effective government in Libya, and something Mr. Gadhafi would never have
permitted - free transit of thousands of migrants across his territory, many of
them bound for death at sea - is now the order of the day in that failed North
African state.

The United States was a direct participant in the replacement of Mr. Gadhafi's
government in Libya, along with former colonial powers France, Italy and the
United Kingdom.

The prime victims of all this are the refugees themselves. Their immediate
dilemma - hunger, disease, homelessness - is far beyond the resources of the
humanitarian world to meet. Their long-term dilemma, the inability to live any
longer in their countries of origin because of destruction and disorder, as much
as anything else caused by us, is close to impossible to deal with.

Dealing with many of the migrants is left in no small part to Greece, Europe's
most economically damaged state, wracked with debt and unemployment.

America needs to think about its role in creating this tragedy and to take
action to help the Europeans contend with it. No one expects us to take in
masses of these people, but maybe we should - or at least help the Europeans
proportionately with the problem. We could also stop continuing to provoke the
flow of migrants from the countries where we continue to make war.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Dan Simpson, a former U.S. ambassador, is a Post-Gazette associate editor
(dsimpson@post-gazette. com, 412-263-1976).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.

                              387 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                            August 8, 2015 Saturday
                                  Main Edition

EXHIBIT PREVIEW;
Photos explore life for refugees

BYLINE: Helena Oliviero; Staff

SECTION: LIVING; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1009 words



HIGHLIGHT: 'Resettling in America' gives look at struggles of so many.


Abraham Deng Ater, a public health researcher for the Centers of Disease Control
and Prevention, slowly meanders through a new exhibit at the CDC, pausing at
every photograph, piece of art and story illustrating the life and challenges of
starting a new life in America.

Around noon on a recent day, you could easily mistake Ater, wearing a turquoise
oxford shirt and employee badge, as a staff member simply visiting the exhibit
on his lunch break.

But Ater, 36, is in fact a key part of the exhibit at the David J. Sencer CDC
Museum called "Resettling in America: Georgia's Refugee Communities."

He is one of five CDC employees who are former refugees from Asia and Africa
featured in a section of the exhibit called "Faces of the CDC." Large
black-and-white photographs of Ater and four others hang side by side, along
with captions about their experiences as refugees, as well as embracing a life
with hope and purpose in the United States.

Ater fled his home in Sudan during the country's civil war when he was just 9
years old. One of the so-called "Lost Boys of Sudan," Ater, separated from his
family, walked thousands of miles in brutal conditions seeking refuge from the
conflict in an area that is now an independent country --- South Sudan. Many
children died along the way from starvation, thirst or attack by wild animals.

After years in refugee camps in Ethiopia and Kenya, Ater eventually settled in
the United States in 2001. By then, he was a young man, about 22. (Most of the
Lost Boys don't know for sure how old they are; aid workers assigned them
approximate ages after they arrived here.) Living in Arizona, he enrolled in
college, completing a bachelor of science degree followed by a master's degree
in public health. He moved to Atlanta in 2012 to work for the CDC's Global
HIV/AIDS Division.

The exhibit, which is free and open to the public and runs through Dec. 30,
focuses on Clarkston, where thousands of refugees live, resettled by the U.S.
government from countries such as Somalia, Bhutan, Burma, Iraq, the Democratic
Republic of Congo.

Kali-Ahset Amen, an assistant director of the James Weldon Johnson Institute for
the Study of Race and Difference, and co-curator of the current exhibit, said
the goal of the exhibit is to help visitors better understand why --- and how
--- refugees come to Georgia and the challenges they face once they get here.

Another goal is to put a spotlight on the critical role the CDC plays in
screening refugees before and after they arrive in the U.S. The CDC also advises
the Georgia Department of Public Health and other state and local public health
agencies about health screening and the health care of former refugees once they
settle here.

While refugees are on a path to citizenship upon arrival to the United States,
Amen said the exhibit is designed to show just how much is involved in becoming
a new American --- from learning English, getting a driver's license and getting
a job, to enrolling kids in day care, making friends and learning how to use the
stove and dishwasher.

The exhibit highlights the work and support of organizations that help ease the
transition, including the Somali American Community Center, Clarkston Community
Center, the Global Growers Network (a group of community gardens farmed by
refugees from Africa, Southeast Asia and the Middle East) and Sagal Radio (a
community-based nonprofit that broadcasts radio programs every Friday, Saturday
and Sunday in six different languages --- English, Somali, Amharic, Karen,
Bhutanese/Nepali and Swahili).

Also on display are hand-woven kudzu baskets by a Bhutanese artist as an example
of how refugees use their traditional skills to be entrepreneurial and make a
living.

Other items showcased include wedding baskets from Somalia and ritual objects
from Burma. They represent precious, sacred cultural practices that allow
refugee ethnic groups to celebrate their history and customs while making room
for new American traditions in their lives.

In 2008, Ater was leaning toward going to medical school, but a trip to his
village in which he was reunited with his mother changed his career path. He was
struck by the high numbers of children dying from malaria, and how many families
didn't realize malaria was caused by mosquitoes. After the trip, he started
raising money for mosquito nets, and decided to pursue a job in public health.

As the lanky man walked around the exhibit on a recent afternoon, he both
smiled, and turned serious. At every turn, he felt a connection.

"I hope everyone sees that everybody wants to be somebody," said Ater, who lives
in Tucker with his wife and their 4-year-old son. "People struggle to come here,
and once they get here, they struggle. But when given a chance, they can do
well. They just need a chance."

REFUGEE RESETTLEMENT IN GEORGIA

While refugees are unable to choose where they are initially resettled, agencies
try to place them in areas where family members, co-ethnics or other compatriots
reside. Over time, many people move to different locations across the United
States to join relatives, to live in places inhabited by members of their ethnic
groups, or to find better jobs.

Last year, most refugees who arrived in Georgia came from Burma, Bhutan,
Democratic Republic of Congo, Iraq and Somalia. There have been smaller influxes
from South Sudan and Darfur, Iran, Ethiopia, Eritrea, Syria, Cuba and
Afghanistan.

Did you know?

* Georgia has been the U.S. destination for over 60,000 refugees in the past 25
years and is one of the top six states in refugee resettlement.

* An average of 2,208 refugees have been resettled per year in Georgia since
1981.

Source: David J. Sencer CDC Museum exhibit called "Resettling in America:
Georgia's Refugee Communities"

EXHIBIT PREVIEW

"Resettling in America: Georgia's Refugee Communities"

9 a.m.-5 p.m. Mondays-Wednesdays and Fridays; 9 a.m.-7 p.m. Thursdays. Through
Dec. 30. Free. David J. Sencer CDC Museum, 1600 Clifton Road N.E., Atlanta.
404-639-0830, www.cdc.gov/museum. (A driver's license or passport is required
for entry.)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2015 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                              388 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 21, 2015 Sunday

Refugees in Tanzania warned against electioneering

LENGTH: 496 words


Text of report entitled "Refugees cautioned against electioneering" published by
Tanzanian newspaper Daily News website on 21 June

The government has warned refugees currently in local camps against taking part
in the forthcoming general elections lest they face legal action.

Minister for Home Affairs Mr Mathias Chikawe issued the warning during the
occasion to mark International Refugees Day.

According to a statement availed to the media, the occasion is observed
worldwide to comfort and reflect on the problem of refugees, a condition which
is caused by instability in countries of origin.

"I would like to remind all refugees to abide by the country's laws and
regulations and avoid registration in voters register. All are required to
adhere to the established guidelines otherwise have their refugee status
nullified," Mr Chikawe said.

Referring to the historical background of Tanzania being the host to thousands
of refugees, Mr Chikawe said since 1959, the country received refugees from
Rwanda and for several years the situation has been recurring.

"Care for the refugees is a collective responsibility for the international
community, the host country and other concerned parties.

I would like to give thanks to the United Nations High Commission for Refugees
(UNHCR), WFP, UNDP and other international agencies for the immense support
extended to Tanzania in caring for the refugees," Mr Chikawe noted.

He outlined three situations which can be considered a lasting solution to
creation of refugees. "Restoration of peace and stability in countries of origin
for the return of refugees is one of the best solution to the problem.

Secondly, a host country can issue citizenship to the refugees and thirdly
shifting refugees to a third country," he said.

Under the initiative, the government in collaboration with the United States of
America is working modalities to enhance relocation of about 32,000 refugees
from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).

In the past decade, over one million refugees from Rwanda, Burundi and the DRC
have been assisted to return to their respective countries as the situation
improved back home.

He attributed the country's generosity to the founding father, the late Mwalimu
Julius Nyerere who believed in human equality and upheld the doctrine.

However, in the recent past thousands of refugees from Burundi entered the
country to seek refuge. They are accommodated at Nyarugusu Refugee Camp in
Kasulu District, Kigoma Region.

Until end of this week, at least 56,564 refugees have been registered in
Tanzania. These are coming from Burundi currently experiencing political
instability.

Countries in Africa that experienced instability leading to creation of a host
of refugees include Rwanda, Burundi, DRC, South Sudan, Mali, Libya and Somalia.
As the world marks the refugee day, there are more than 50 million people
displaced from their countries of origin to become refugees.

Source: Daily News website, Dar es Salaam, in English 21 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              389 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                 therecord.com

                             June 20, 2015 Saturday

The Record's view: More refugees need our help

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 447 words


Today is World Refugee Day. And although many of the stories of individual
refugees who make it to safe havens are filled with their hope, courage and
persistence, although those stories are also filled with the extraordinary
generosity and compassion of those who work to assist them, this is not a day
for undiluted celebration.

Rather, this is also a day for solemn reflection and deep concern. The number of
refugees worldwide, as estimated by the United Nations High Commissioner,
reached 59.5 million last year. That's almost as many people as live in the
entire country of Italy. It's a 16-per-cent increase over the 51.2 million
refugees in 2013. It's an all-time record.

The just-released annual report of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees speaks of a "dangerous new era" in worldwide displacement as wars in
Africa, the Middle East and Asia have unleashed a torrent of people fleeing
their homes. Few are able to return. To make matters worse, the vast majority of
those who flee are seeking shelter in underdeveloped countries that are least
able to assist them. "People in need of compassion, aid and refuge are being
abandoned," said commissioner Antonio Guterres.

Canada's geographic distance from these global conflicts means it has remained
somewhat distant from this pressure. We do not experience waves of traumatized
migrants pushing through our borders, as do Pakistan, Jordan and Turkey. Yet by
other measures, ours is still a generous country. We are second, behind the
United States and ahead of Australia, in the number of UN-sponsored refugees we
accept, with 12,300 being settled last year.

Waterloo Region can be particularly proud of its welcome to strangers in
distress. In 2013, on average, 21 per cent of new immigrants in this
municipality were refugees. That's a significantly higher proportion than
Ontario's 13 per cent and Canada's 11 per cent. Part of the reason for this is
the solid network of assistance locally that has been built by many faith groups
including Mennonites, a group that has its own experience with persecution.

There is much to be proud of, but we can do much more. Refugee advocates from
this area and across Canada have called on the federal government to bring more
refugees to our big, peaceful land that brims with civility and opportunity. The
federal government should put more resources into bringing in more
government-sponsored refugees and also encourage more individuals and church
groups to do the same. As the worldwide crisis becomes more grave, the gap
widens between the comforts of our own lives and the insecurity and loss of so
many others. Surely we can extend that helping hand a little further.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Metroland Media Group Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              390 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             Waterloo Region Record

                             June 20, 2015 Saturday
                                 First Edition

More refugees need our help

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 447 words


Today is World Refugee Day. And although many of the stories of individual
refugees who make it to safe havens are filled with their hope, courage and
persistence, although those stories are also filled with the extraordinary
generosity and compassion of those who work to assist them, this is not a day
for undiluted celebration.

Rather, this is also a day for solemn reflection and deep concern. The number of
refugees worldwide, as estimated by the United Nations High Commissioner,
reached 59.5 million last year. That's almost as many people as live in the
entire country of Italy. It's a 16-per-cent increase over the 51.2 million
refugees in 2013. It's an all-time record.

The just-released annual report of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees speaks of a "dangerous new era" in worldwide displacement as wars in
Africa, the Middle East and Asia have unleashed a torrent of people fleeing
their homes. Few are able to return. To make matters worse, the vast majority of
those who flee are seeking shelter in underdeveloped countries that are least
able to assist them.

"People in need of compassion, aid and refuge are being abandoned," said
commissioner Antonio Guterres.

Canada's geographic distance from these global conflicts means it has remained
somewhat distant from this pressure. We do not experience waves of traumatized
migrants pushing through our borders, as do Pakistan, Jordan and Turkey. Yet by
other measures, ours is still a generous country. We are second, behind the
United States and ahead of Australia, in the number of UN-sponsored refugees we
accept, with 12,300 being settled last year.

Waterloo Region can be particularly proud of its welcome to strangers in
distress. In 2013, on average, 21 per cent of new immigrants in this
municipality were refugees. That's a significantly higher proportion than
Ontario's 13 per cent and Canada's 11 per cent. Part of the reason for this is
the solid network of assistance locally that has been built by many faith groups
including Mennonites, a group that has its own experience with persecution.

There is much to be proud of, but we can do much more. Refugee advocates from
this area and across Canada have called on the federal government to bring more
refugees to our big, peaceful land that brims with civility and opportunity.

The federal government should put more resources into bringing in more
government-sponsored refugees and also encourage more individuals and church
groups to do the same. As the worldwide crisis becomes more grave, the gap
widens between the comforts of our own lives and the insecurity and loss of so
many others. Surely we can extend that helping hand a little further.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Metroland Media Group Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              391 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           Greeley Tribune (Colorado)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              June 19, 2015 Friday

Open house invites community to learn about Greeley refugee center

BYLINE: Kelsey Hammon, Greeley Tribune, Colo.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 399 words


June 19--Asad Abdi could tell hundreds of stories about the refugees who came to
America to escape war-ravaged countries and found a home at the Global Refugee
Center in Greeley.

Abdi is the founder and president of the resource and education nonprofit. On
Friday, he helped the GRC host an open house. About 20 participants played "A
walk in their shoes" to simulate crossing the border. In the game, players were
blind-folded and separated from their families as they tried to make it across.
The game was to help people grasp the challenges a refugee faces.

For Jackson Cline a 17-year-old Windsor High School student, the activity was
eye-opening.

"It's the type of struggles that you would never see. It allows you to empathize
more. There's no easy part to being a refugee," Cline said.

Cline is a volunteer at the Global Refugee Center and through the activity he
learned that many refugees will spend 15 years or more in a refugee camp.

For Mary Collins, also a GRC volunteer, the activity made her think about how
painful it is to have to leave behind your family.

"I just can't imagine having to leave my own child behind," Collins said.

For many refugees, these challenges and heartbreak are a daily reality. Abdi's
own experience help him to connect with many of the refugees who come to the GRC
from east Africa and share a similar history.

Abdi is originally from Ethiopia. When he spoke out against the government, he
was imprisoned and shot in the jaw. After his release from prison, he was
sponsored to come to America and have his jaw fixed. But the struggle for Abdi
wasn't over, even after he arrived in America, he felt totally alone.

"I never wanted anyone to feel the loneliness or despair that I felt," Abdi
said. This drove Abdi to open the refugee center.

Abdi said he hopes to bridge the gaps between refugee/immigrants and the Weld
County community. He said he feels lucky to be in Colorado, a place that has
made him feel welcome.

"Colorado was really welcoming and accepting community. It's the reason I live
here, so thank you for opening up your doors to the newcomers," Abdi said.

"I never wanted anyone to feel the loneliness or despair that I felt.-- asad
abdi, founder and president of the Global Refugee Center

___ (c)2015 the Greeley Tribune (Greeley, Colo.) Visit the Greeley Tribune
(Greeley, Colo.) at www.greeleytribune.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150619-GY-Open-house-invites-community-to-learn-about-Greeley-refugee
-center-0619-20150619

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GY


                         Copyright 2015 Greeley Tribune

                              392 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                   News Point

                              June 19, 2015 Friday

UNHCR: Refugee numbers reach highest ever recorded

LENGTH: 477 words

DATELINE: India


India, June 19 -- There are more refugees in the world today than ever
previously recorded - and more than half are children, the United Nations
refugee agency said Thursday. Nearly 60 million people were counted as forcibly
displaced in 2014, according to the Office of the U.N. High Commissioner for
Refugees (UNHCR). If those people were the population of one country, it would
be the 24th largest in the world. One person out of every 122 on the planet is
said to be either a refugee, internally displaced or seeking asylum. Last year
on average, each day saw another 42,500 people driven from their homes.

'World at war'

The conflict in Syria has been the biggest single driver of displacement,
according to the refugee agency's Global Trends report -- but far from the only
one. "One clearly gets the impression that the world is at war - and indeed many
areas of the world are today in a completely chaotic situation," said U.N. High
Commissioner for Refugees Antonio Guterres at a news conference earlier. "The
result is this staggering escalation of displacement, this staggering escalation
of human suffering, because each displaced person is a tragic story."

In 2014, 13.9 million people became newly displaced - a record number for a
single year. Just 126,800 refugees were able to return to their homes - the
fewest in 31 years.

Millions of Syrians displaced

Turkey became the world's top refugee-hosting nation in 2014, with 1.59 million
Syrians within its borders. Within the EU, Germany and Sweden received the most
asylum applications. Most refugees come from the Middle East, with 7.6 million
Syrians taking to the road within their own country, and 3.88 million having
become refugees.

Many more come from sub-Saharan Africa, fleeing conflicts in the Central African
Republic, South Sudan, Somalia, Nigeria, the Democratic Republic of Congo and
elsewhere. In Asia, the report highlights growing numbers of people fleeing
Myanmar. And in the Americas, there was a rise in the number of people seeking
to escape gang violence in Central America. Asylum claims in the United States
were up 44% over the year.

Agencies sound alarm

The Institute for Economics and Peace, a global think tank, also sounded the
alarm about the growing refugee crisis. On Wednesday it said in its Global Peace
Index that almost 1% of the world's population are now refugees or internally
displaced people -- the highest level since 1945. It said violence cost the
global economy $14.3 trillion last year. In a briefing paper, Amnesty
International also called the current refugee crisis the worst since the Second
World War. This Saturday, June 20, is the UNHCR's World Refugee Day.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from News Point. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                          Copyright 2015 NewsPoint TV
                              All Rights Reserved

                              393 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                 therecord.com

                              June 19, 2015 Friday

More refugees need our help

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 447 words


Today is World Refugee Day. And although many of the stories of individual
refugees who make it to safe havens are filled with their hope, courage and
persistence, although those stories are also filled with the extraordinary
generosity and compassion of those who work to assist them, this is not a day
for undiluted celebration.

Rather, this is also a day for solemn reflection and deep concern. The number of
refugees worldwide, as estimated by the United Nations High Commissioner,
reached 59.5 million last year. That's almost as many people as live in the
entire country of Italy. It's a 16-per-cent increase over the 51.2 million
refugees in 2013. It's an all-time record.

The just-released annual report of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees speaks of a "dangerous new era" in worldwide displacement as wars in
Africa, the Middle East and Asia have unleashed a torrent of people fleeing
their homes. Few are able to return. To make matters worse, the vast majority of
those who flee are seeking shelter in underdeveloped countries that are least
able to assist them. "People in need of compassion, aid and refuge are being
abandoned," said commissioner Antonio Guterres.

Canada's geographic distance from these global conflicts means it has remained
somewhat distant from this pressure. We do not experience waves of traumatized
migrants pushing through our borders, as do Pakistan, Jordan and Turkey. Yet by
other measures, ours is still a generous country. We are second, behind the
United States and ahead of Australia, in the number of UN-sponsored refugees we
accept, with 12,300 being settled last year.

Waterloo Region can be particularly proud of its welcome to strangers in
distress. In 2013, on average, 21 per cent of new immigrants in this
municipality were refugees. That's a significantly higher proportion than
Ontario's 13 per cent and Canada's 11 per cent. Part of the reason for this is
the solid network of assistance locally that has been built by many faith groups
including Mennonites, a group that has its own experience with persecution.

There is much to be proud of, but we can do much more. Refugee advocates from
this area and across Canada have called on the federal government to bring more
refugees to our big, peaceful land that brims with civility and opportunity. The
federal government should put more resources into bringing in more
government-sponsored refugees and also encourage more individuals and church
groups to do the same. As the worldwide crisis becomes more grave, the gap
widens between the comforts of our own lives and the insecurity and loss of so
many others. Surely we can extend that helping hand a little further.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Metroland Media Group Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              394 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                        Gulf News (United Arab Emirates)

                             June 18, 2015 Thursday

Refugees around the world Refugees around the world

BYLINE: JUMANA AL TAMIMI

LENGTH: 469 words


Asia

Up 31%

For a long time, the region was the world's major displacement-producing region.
The number of refugees and internally displaced people in Asia grew by 31 per
cent in 2014, to a total of 9 million people. Afghanistan, previously the
world's leading producer of refugees, ceded the ranking to Syria. Continuing
displacement was seen both in and from Myanmar in 2014 -- mostly of Rohingya
from Rakhine state,  and in the Kachin and Northern Shan regions. Iran and
Pakistan remained two of the world's top four refugee-hosting countries.

Middle East and North Africa

Up 19%

The Syrian war is producing the highest number of refugees and displaced people.
The massive suffering from Syria's war, with 7.6 million people displaced
internally, and 3.88 million people displaced into the surrounding region and
beyond as refugees, made the Middle East the world's largest producer and host
of forced displacement. Adding to the alarmingly high totals from Syria was a
new displacement of at least 2.6 million people in Iraq, where as a result, 3.6
million people were internally displaced as of the end of 2014. A further
309,000 people were deemed newly displaced in Libya.

Europe

Up 51%

Overall, forced displacement numbers in Europe totalled 6.7 million at the end
of the 2014, compared to 4.4 million at the end of 2013. The largest proportion
of these were  Syrians in Turkey and Ukrainians in the Russian Federation.

In the European bloc, the biggest volume of asylum applications was in Germany
and Sweden. Turkey became the world's top refugee-hosting nation with nearly
1.59 million Syrian refugees at the end of 2014.

Sub-Saharan Africa

Up 17%

Often-overlooked, Africa's numerous conflicts, including in Central African
Republic, South Sudan, Somalia, Nigeria, Democratic Republic of Congo and
elsewhere, together produced immense forced-displacement totals in 2014 on a
scale only marginally lower than in the Middle East. In all, sub-Saharan Africa
had 3.7 million refugees and 11.4 million internally displaced people, 4.5
million of whom were newly displaced in 2014. Ethiopia replaced Kenya as the
largest refugee-hosting country in Africa and the fifth largest worldwide.

Americas

Up 12%

The Americas also saw a rise in forced displacement. The number of Colombian
refugees dropped by 36,300 to 360,300 over the course of the year, mainly
because of a revision in numbers of refugees reported by Venezuela. Colombia
continued, nonetheless, to have one of the world's largest internally displaced
populations, reported at 6 million people,  with 137,000 Colombians being newly
displaced during the year. With more people fleeing gang violence or other forms
of persecution in Central America, the United States saw 36,800 more asylum
claims than in 2013, representing a growth of 44 per cent.

Source:  UNHCR report

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 57


               Copyright 2015 Gulf News - Al Nisr Publishing LLC.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              395 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            June 17, 2015 Wednesday

Celebrating their new home

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 96 words


When they woke up, they were from somewhere else: small countries in Europe or
Africa or Central America. By the time the sun set, they were American citizens.
About three dozen immigrants took the oath of allegiance to the United States in
Tampa on Tuesday in ceremonies timed to coincide with World Refugee Day. More
than 30,000 refugees settle in Florida every year through the state's Department
of Children and Families Refugee Services program. Last year, 3,147 of those
refugees settled in the Tampa Bay area, mostly in Hillsborough or Pinellas
counties.

From staff reports

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              396 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 4, 2015 Thursday

Victor Davis Hanson: The rush of the world's poor

BYLINE: By Victor Davis Hanson

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 574 words


TUSCANY, Italy -- Northern and central Italy are not on the southern
Mediterranean. But somehow thousands of refugees from Africa, Asia and the
Middle East are everywhere here -- as is true of much of the European Union.
Some sleep on park benches. Many peddle knockoff electronic goods and
counterfeit watches. Angry Italians shoo away refugee beggars from tour groups.

The Greek islands near the coast of Turkey are likewise flooded this summer with
dispossessed refugees from countries such as Afghanistan and Syria. Apparently a
bankrupt Greek government lacks the resources to patrol its vast coastline. Some
beleaguered Greeks assume that thousands of boat people and homeless refugees
will eventually leave their makeshift camps and head northward to the wealthier
homelands of Greece's Northern European creditors.

A similar rush has overwhelmed America's southern border. In the last two years,
tens of thousands of Central American and Mexican citizens have sensed that the
Obama administration has suspended border enforcement. Illegal entry into the
United States won't result in punishment but instead in an array of social
services unimaginable in much of Latin America.

So, what explains this constant rush of the world's poor families into the West?
And why aren't China, Russia, Iran and Cuba, for example, flooded with illegal
entrants?

The human exodus to Western countries is not always explained by a lack of
natural wealth elsewhere. Iraq and Venezuela, for example, are awash in oil.
Mexico has lots of oil, minerals and fertile soil.

Wars may have driven scores of Afghanis, North Africans and Syrians from their
homelands to the West, but most of Latin America is at relative peace.

The allure of the West is certainly not due to Europeans and Americans
constantly brainwashing the world about their supposedly superior culture. Just
the opposite is true. American media and universities constantly harangue about
the race, class and gender shortcomings of Western civilization. President Obama
has retold countless Western historical sins and offered apologies for them
while abroad.

Nor are Western economies currently booming and thus short of labor. The
European Union faces massive debt. America never quite recovered from the Great
Recession of 2008-2009 and is currently experiencing negative economic growth.
Many immigrants arrive without expectation of joining the labor force.

Nor do millions of refugees hear nice things about the West from their own
governments.

State media throughout Latin America routinely trash Yanqui neo-imperialism and
arrogance. The Middle East is one big anti-American megaphone that constantly
ridicules Western decadence as the antithesis of Islamic decorum.

So why, then, do millions risk their lives to get into America, Europe and other
Western nations by hook or by crook?

The Western poor enjoy a level of state support and access to technology, health
care and security that would make them relatively rich in the Third World. Even
a poor foreign-born peddler in Florence, Italy, has access to clean water and is
safe in a way unknown to most residents of Syria or Afghanistan.

Add up the right to free expression, human rights, religious tolerance,
constitutional government, an independent judiciary, separation of church and
state, free-market economics and the protection of private property -- and
everyday life becomes simply far better.

Victor Davis Hanson is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              397 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 24, 2015 Sunday

The Globalist Quiz

BYLINE: TheGlobalist.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 736 words


THE GLOBALIST QUIZ

Seeking Sanctuary

The weekly quiz is provided by the Globalist, a daily online feature service
that covers issues and trends in globalization. The nonpartisan organization
provides commercial services and nonprofit educational features.

QUESTION

The year 2014 was a particularly big time for global refugees. Outright civil
war in countries such as Syria and Libya has spurred hundreds of thousands of
civilians to make risky journeys to safer countries. We wonder: Which
industrialized country received the most asylum seekers in 2014?

ANSWER

A. United States

B. Turkey

C. Sweden

D. Germany

A.

United States is not correct.

In 2014, more than 121,000 people entered the U.S. asylum petition process,
making it the second-highest recipient country for a second year in a row,
according to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. The year also
brought an increase of nearly 37,000 applications over 2013. From 2005 through
2012, the U.S. was the leading recipient of asylum petitions in the
industrialized world. In 2014, 866,000 people altogether applied for asylum
across 44 industrialized nations. The U.S. received 14 percent of these
applications. After petitioners for asylum arrive in a country, they must be
able to prove they would face persecution or be killed if they returned home.
This requirement differentiates them from people fleeing hardship or seeking
better economic prospects. Many of the more than 350,000 formally recognized
refugees and asylum seekers in the U.S. are fleeing violence or political
persecution in Africa, the Middle East or Latin America. In 2014, 42 percent of
new applicants had fled gang and cartel violence in Mexico and Central America.

B.

Turkey is not correct.

In 2014, Turkey became the third-highest recipient of asylum claims, with nearly
88,000 people filing new petitions. This represented a doubling of the 43,000
people who sought asylum in Turkey in 2013. This surge was primarily a result of
the brutal civil war in neighboring Syria. It escalated sharply in 2014, as the
self-styled Islamic State captured much of northern Iraq and began moving on
Kurdish communities along Turkey's borders. Even though Turkey's government has
publicly tried to remain welcoming to the civilians escaping the war, the events
of 2014 began to test that resolve. A century ago, there were also significant
civilian population movements occurring in the region. Then, amid World War I,
the Ottoman Empire was disintegrating under Allied invasion and rebellions by
Armenian, Arab and Kurdish populations.

C.

Sweden is not correct.

In 2014, the number of new asylum seekers in Sweden rose from 54,000 in 2013 to
more than 75,000, making it the fourth-largest host country in the
industrialized world. It was Sweden's biggest year for asylum claims since it
received 84,000 applications in 1992 as Yugoslavia collapsed. Much of the recent
increase followed the Swedish government's September 2013 decision to announce
blanket asylum and permanent refugee status to any Syrian who wished to apply as
a result of threats from the civil war. The unprecedented move has contributed
to Sweden having more asylum seekers per capita than any other nation over the
past five years. The presence of more than 100,000 refugees in this small
European Union member country has become increasingly controversial. This likely
helped propel the anti-immigration Sweden Democrats party to become the
third-largest in Sweden's parliament.

D.

Germany is correct.

Germany received more than 173,000 new petitions for asylum in 2014, making it
the leading recipient in the world in absolute numbers. Germany's asylum
requests in 2014 were 58 percent higher than in 2013. The country has also
accepted more than 200,000 refugees. In fact, Germany provides two-thirds of all
admission and resettlement spots available in Europe. However, among major
asylum application recipients, Sweden received the highest number relative to
its national population, at 78 per 10,000. Germany stood at about 21 per 10,000,
Turkey at about 12 per 10,000 and the United States at fewer than 4 applicants
per 10,000. Germany's openness to refugees has, as in Sweden, sparked domestic
protests at home. In part, Germany's high resettlement numbers are meant to ease
pressure mainly in Greece and Italy -- the EU countries directly bearing most of
the brunt of desperate migrants landing on their Mediterranean coasts.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              398 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Times (Kigali)

                                  May 10, 2015

Nkurunziza Must Respect Arusha Deal - U.S. Envoy

BYLINE: Kenneth Agutamba

LENGTH: 127 words


Burundi's President Pierre Nkurunziza must respect the Arusha agreement and help
bring to an end the ongoing political standoff in Rwanda's neighbour to the
South, Erica J. Barks-Ruggles, the U.S. Ambassador to Rwanda, said Friday.

She was visiting Mahama refugee camp in Kirehe District which hosts thousands of
Burundian refugees who have crossed into Rwanda in recent weeks.

Ambassador Barks-Ruggles, who was in the company of Saber Azam, the UN refugee
agency representative to Rwanda, said the region as well as the international
community should continue putting pressure on Burundi's government to heed to
the 2000 Arusha accord.

The deal which helped end the country's civil war in 2005 is widely credited for
Burundi's decade long peace and political stability.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              399 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         FOROYAA Newspaper (Serrekunda)

                                  May 06, 2015

U.S. Rep to African Union to Visit Gambia

LENGTH: 534 words


On May 7-8, the Representative of the United States of America to the African
Union and Permanent Representative of the United States to the UN Economic
Commission for Africa, Ambassador Reuben Brigety, will visit The Gambia, a press
release from the us embassy reveals.Ambassador Brigety will meet with African
Union representatives and members of civil society, in support of the continuing
"close ties between the United States of America and the African Union." He will
hold a press conference with the media to speak and answer questions about "the
strong ties between the U.S. and the African Union."

Ambassador Brigety is also the Permanent Representative of the United States to
the UN Economic Commission for Africa. Ambassador Reuben E. Brigety, II was
appointed Representative of the United States of America to the African Union
and Permanent Representative of the United States to the UN Economic Commission
for Africa on September 3, 2013. Prior to this appointment, AmbassadorBrigety
served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of African Affairs
from November 14, 2011 until September 3, 2013 with responsibility for Southern
African and Regional Security Affairs.

From December 2009 to November 2011, he served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of
State in the Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration. In this capacity, he
supervised U.S. refugee programs in Africa, managed U.S. humanitarian diplomacy
with major international partners, and oversaw the development of international
migration policy.

A native of Jacksonville, Florida, Ambassador Brigety previously served as
Director of the Sustainable Security Program at the Center for American Progress
from January 2008 to November 2009 and as a Special Assistant in the Bureau for
Democracy, Conflict, and Humanitarian Assistance at the U.S. Agency for
International Development from January 2007 to January 2008. From November 2008
to January 2009, he also served as a senior advisor for Development and Security
to the U.S. Central Command Assessment Team in Washington and in Doha, Qatar.

Prior to his work in the policy arena, Ambassador Brigety served as an assistant
professor of government and politics at George Mason University and at the
School of International Service at American University between August 2003 and
April 2009. In addition, Ambassador Brigety was a researcher with the Arms
Division of Human Rights Watch (HRW) from August 2001- May 2003, where he
conducted research missions in Afghanistan and Iraq. Before joining HRW,
Ambassador Brigety was an active duty U.S. naval officer and held several staff
positions in the Pentagon and in fleet support units.

Ambassador Brigety is a 1995 distinguished midshipman graduate of the U.S. Naval
Academy, where he earned a B.S. in political science (with merit), served as the
Brigade Commander and received the Thomas G. Pownall Scholarship. He also holds
an M.Phil. and a Ph.D. in international relations from the University of
Cambridge, England. Ambassador Brigety is a member of the International
Institute for Strategic Studies, a Life Member of the Council on Foreign
Relations, and a recipient of the Council's International Affairs Fellowship.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              400 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 21, 2015 Tuesday

SAfrica UN refugee agency says "flooded" by calls in wake of xenophobic attacks

LENGTH: 288 words


Text of report by influential, privately-owned South African daily Business Day
website on 21 April

[Report by Xolisa Phillip: "UN Agency in SA 'Flooded By Calls From Refugees'"]

A total of 848 Somali refugees left SA [South Africa] last year for friendlier
countries, while 1,206 others are awaiting results of resettlement applications.

The office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in SA
resettled more than 1,000 refugees last year, most of them Somalis.

Refugees from the Democratic Republic of Congo were the second-largest group at
161, followed by 23 Ethiopians and 12 Burundians.

Four Zimbabweans, 10 Rwandans, one Sudanese, seven Afghans and two Eritreans
were also on the list.

The three most popular destinations were the US, Canada and Australia, the UN
body's spokeswoman, Tina Ghelli, said yesterday.

Some Nordic states also accept resettlement applications. However, the process
was long and could take up to three years, Ms Ghelli said.

The UNHCR had been inundated with calls in the wake of SA's latest wave of
xenophobic violence.

The commission had even set up a special mission in the Eastern Cape because of
the high rate of attacks against Somalis, she said.

"Although we have been getting a lot of calls from people, our first option is
local integration. Resettlement is not an overnight thing," Ms Ghelli said.

The commission also uses avenues such as voluntary repatriation and
resettlement.

Those who qualified for the latter were identified based on specific criteria,
for example, those who had been attacked more than once or had been tortured,
said Ms Ghelli.

"The US takes most Somalis, followed by Canada," she said.

Source: Business Day website, Johannesburg, in English  21 Apr 15

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              401 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            April 16, 2015 Thursday

An Update on African Immigration to the United States

LENGTH: 485  words

DATELINE: New York


Council on Foreign Relations has issued the following news release:

I have written before about African immigration to the United States and the
presence of African immigrants in New York City, a new demographic trend. On
April 9, the Pew Research Center issued a new report, "A Rising Share of the
U.S. Black Population is Foreign Born," which updates and adds precision to the
conversation about this important topic. The conclusion from Pew is that black
immigrants are doing well and making a significant contribution to American
society.

The Pew study addresses black immigration since 1980, about half of which is of
Caribbean origin. (Jamaica and Haiti are the largest sources of black
immigration). There is also black immigration from elsewhere, including South
America and Mexico. But, Pew makes the important point that the recent growth in
black immigration has been from Africa. Pew concludes that Africans are now 36
percent of the foreign-born black population. It states that African immigrants
living in the United States rose from 574,000 to 1,400,000 between 2000 and
2013. The two largest African source countries are Nigeria and Ethiopia, with
Ghana and Kenya supplying smaller numbers.

As is true for other immigrant groups, Africans concentrate themselves in a few
cities, often drawing on already-existing networks. Africans are especially
concentrated in the metropolitan areas of New York, Miami, and Washington, D.C.,
Pew finds.

Pew traces the origin of the current wave of African (and other) arrivals to the
Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965, with its focus on family reunification
and skills; the Refugee Act of 1980, which provided a means for immigrants from
conflict areas to come to the United States; and the Immigration and Nationality
Act of 1990, which established a diversity visa program intended to facilitate
immigration from underrepresented nations. It is well known that sub-Saharan
Africa is a venue of conflict, and Pew finds that 28 percent of African
immigrants arrive as refugees or asylum seekers, compared with 13 percent of the
total immigrant population.

Pew compares foreign-born blacks (from all parts of the world, not just Africa)
with the African-American population: the foreign born are older, more likely to
have a bachelor's degree, less likely to live in poverty, and much more likely
to be married (in part because their average age, forty-two,  is higher than
that of African Americans, twenty-nine). In comparison with the entire U.S.
population, black immigrants are slightly less likely to have a college degree,
and less likely to own their own homes.

Pew's findings are based on analysis of the 2013 American Community Survey and
the census of 1980, 1990, and 2000, all of which were produced by the U.S.
Bureau of the Census.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              402 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             March 23, 2015 Monday

Washington: Midshipmen Candidate Takes Oath of Citizenship

LENGTH: 738  words

DATELINE: Washington


United States Navy, The Government of USA has issued the following news release:


Midshipman Candidate Diane Muhizi became a U.S. citizen, March 19, during a
naturalization ceremony at the U.S. Customs and Immigration Service office in
Johnston, R.I.

Muhizi's story of becoming a U.S. citizen has been a difficult journey; a
journey that has taken her far from her former life.

"Everything, good or bad, I go through here in America I consider pure joy,
because I have seen what poverty and rock bottom feels like," said Muhizi. "I
constantly force myself to never forget where I came from, because without that
past I never would have known what happiness feels like. I am glad that I'm not
there anymore, but I'm even gladder I was there."

Born in Rwanda, Africa, Muhizi relocated to the United States on Oct. 21, 2009
along with her mother and two brothers. Before then, she spent the first 13
years of her life in a refugee camp in Mozambique.

Today, Muhizi is a high-achieving student at Naval Academy Preparatory School
(NAPS), where she currently has a 4.00 GPA and was recently selected to be a
platoon commander for the 2nd trimester of the academic year.

"Every year there are 1-2 midshipman candidates who arrive at NAPS needing to
complete naturalization prior to reporting to the U.S. Naval Academy," said
retired Capt. Mark Donahue, NAPS command services director. "Each story is
unique, but Midshipman Candidate Muhizi's story is particularly compelling.
Growing up in a refugee camp from the time she was a baby, she has embraced her
adversity and it has made her a high achiever."

The ceremony, which swore in 32 new U.S. citizens from 21 different countries,
is one Muhizi won't soon forget.

"It feels awesome to be a citizen because that means I can now attend the
Academy," said Muhizi. "I feel a little more patriotic than I did before I was a
citizen."

Muhizi will attend the U.S. Naval Academy later this year as part of the class
of 2019. She credits NAPS for preparing her for this goal.

"NAPS has helped me get more familiar with the military lifestyle, I was blessed
with a leadership position as a platoon commander," said Muhizi. "This position
helped me become more confident in my leadership abilities and gave me a
perspective on how hard peer leadership is."

Advanced Physics Professor John Macaluso said Muhizi's positive approach,
dedication and motivation are what make her a top student at NAPS.

"Muhizi is one of the hardest working and most dedicated students in my class.
She consistently gives full effort towards every topic, assignment, and
discussion," said Macaluso. "She works very well with others and causes those
around her to live up to her level of motivation. She's inquisitive, smart and
approaches everything with a positive attitude."

"When Muhizi got her paperwork for her interview with the citizenship board, the
entire platoon was happy for her," said Chief Aviation Support Equipment
Technician (AW) Kathryn Kennon, 1st Company senior enlisted leader. "She brings
a smile to others just being in the room because she has a positive outlook on
life."

According to Donahue, Muhizi plans to study engineering while at the Naval
Academy and possibly join the submarine community after graduation.
"She has all the hallmarks of someone who will make an exceptional officer --
passion for the job; compassion for the people; superb technical knowledge and
stamina," said Donahue. "She gets along very well with everyone. Her smile and
kind demeanor improve morale whenever she is around."

"Being able to make people like Diane Muhizi U.S. citizens is what has made this
country great and is what gives me such great confidence in the future of our
nation."

Muhizi credits her mother Basilissa, who survived the genocide in Rwanda, as her
inspiration and driving force.

"When it comes to who inspires me, my mother Basilissa is always going to be on
top of that list," said Muhizi. "My mother is the kind of person that even after
being hit by mountains of trouble, she'll still get back up and pick up where
she left off. She's been through the worst of the worst, not mentioning
experiencing the genocide itself. Yet she never lost hope, she's always looking
for a way to make sure that her children are happy and safe. Her selflessness
and caring for others is what I admire."

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com


LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              403 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                             Sowetan (South Africa)

                           February 10, 2015 Tuesday

WHY IS UN NOT HELPING WITH REFUGEES IN SA?

BYLINE: Howard Johnson

SECTION: OPINION & EDITORIAL

LENGTH: 844 words


Focus should not only be on government response
  WHY do foreign nationals, other African nationals in particular, find South
Africa to be a safe haven?
 This is a question that has exercised me and some of my comrades and others I
interact with.


 My answer is that in the same way that Mexicans, Ecuadorians, Salvadorians and
people in the Americas wake up every day with a desire to reach the Big Apple
(New York City) or other alluring shores of the US, Africans wake up with a
desire to reach magnetic Johannesburg, by hook or by crook.
 This is because many Africans perceive it as the epicentre of opportunity on
the continent.
 More importantly, democratic political culture, political freedoms and economic
opportunities that we enjoy are well-known to the continent.
 Similar to how Jews before, during and after World War 2 sought asylum and
refuge in the US and parts of Western Europe, fellow Africans seek refuge in
South Africa.
 In the aftermath of the recent upheaval in Soweto and other townships, I can
only speculate but there must have been a flurry of shuttle diplomacy between
the ANC-led government, diplomats representing refugees' (legal or illegal)
countries of origin and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
(UNHRC).
 The refugee question cannot be given an exclusive Somali identity. South Africa
hosts refugees of Chinese, Angolan, Ethiopian, Zimbabwean and Pakistani origin
among others. The recent attacks against foreign nationals, like the 2008
xenophobic attacks, caught authorities on the back foot.
 Much of the focus of media reports has been on the government's response.
Little has been said about the role of the UNHRC that has a mandate to help
governments in the management of their refugee population. This constitutes a
gross level of opacity on the part of the media and other commentators.
 As far as I know, South Africa has neither adopted an Afrophobic nor a new
nationalist posturing, although the latter was an important fillip in
post-apartheid South Africa.
 The UNHCR, through its instruments, namely the UN Refugee Convention of 1951
and UNHRC policy on Refugee Protection and Solution in Urban Areas of 2009, is
the principal agency to protect the rights and solve the plight of refugees in
terms of its mandate and responsibilities.
 South Africa has since liberation ratified a raft of UN conventions and
protocols regarding refugees and offers them protection in law.
 According to its 2009 policy, the local office of the UNHRC is supposed to
encourage positive interaction between the local population and refugees, to
endeavour to combat xenophobia and build the capacity of local authorities to
engage in a positive manner with refugee populations.
 These policies have clearly not succeeded in South Africa, and do not fit the
South African context.
 South Africa is a developmental state with serious and growing inequities.
Residents in townships and informal settlements cannot be expected to rely
solely on international news agencies to gain insight and understanding of
man-made catastrophes in Africa and elsewhere.
 For UNHRC policies to gain traction in our communities, the agency needs to be
more visible on the ground. It has a cardinal responsibility of raising
awareness about its policies and programmes.
 The UNHRC needs to go out of its way to ensure that all South Africans - both
rich and poor - know about its policies and understands its role.
 At present, the UNHRC is failing in relation to advocacy and it is not clear
how it is supporting government programmes. Many people do not even know where
they are located in the country for instance.
 The collective leadership of the country should not engage in political faux
pas.
 Approving of or justifying the antagonism that some of our countrymen harbour
towards foreigners, where the life, property and the core human values of our
country are being violated only lends credence to falsehoods perpetuated about
South Africa in multinational fora, such as the United Nations and African
Union. Worse still, it legitimises criminality.
 But South Africa is not the only country where an anti-immigration sentiment is
real.
 There have been other examples on the continent including events in Angola in
2008, the policies of the late Mobuto Sese Seko in the 1990s and that of the
late Omar Bongo of Gabon, who all clamped down on African foreign nationals. But
this is not South Africa's policy.
 Our collective consciousness should be to ensure that wealth trickles down and
this can only be achieved through a positive radical economic transformation in
order to alter current socioeconomic relations in the country.
  Dialego, in his trilogy series titled Why Revolutionaries Need Marxism, argues
that people are a "product of their material circumstances and that their "human
nature reflects the conditions under which they live and work". As Marx and
Hegel argued: "If a man is shaped by environment, his environment must be made
human." Criminality can never be a perk of poverty.
 l Johnson is an ANC member in Pretoria

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Sowetan


                    Copyright 2015 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              404 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           Cameroon Tribune (Yaoundé)

                                January 11, 2015

Cameroon-Canada Relations - Focus to Shift to Economic Partnership

BYLINE: Kimeng Hilton Ndukong

LENGTH: 340 words


Prime Minister Philemon Yang on January 9, 2015 received the new Canadian High
Commissioner, His Excellency René Cremonese.

Relations between Cameroon and Canada will henceforth see focus shifted from
development issues to economic partnership. Revealing this to the media in
Yaounde on Friday, January 9, 2015, after paying a courtesy call on the Prime
Minister and Head of Government, Philemon Yang, High Commissioner René Cremonese
said this will be one of the priorities of his tenure.

Prime Minister Philemon Yang agreed that such a shift was necessary and offered
the support of his government, the new Canadian diplomat explained. He said they
also revisited relations between the two countries and Philemon Yang's time in
Canada where he was Cameroon's High Commissioner for over 20 years. Other
matters discussed at the meeting were the insecurity in the Far North Region
created by Boko Haram attacks and cross-border raids by Central African Republic
armed gangs in the East Region.

Meanwhile, Canada has offered FCFA 1.1 billion to the UN Refugee Agency for the
assistance of refugees in the sub-region as well as some additional funds to the
Red Cross and other charities to cater for refugees in the Far North Region. The
new Canadian Envoy on Tuesday, January 6, 2015, presented his Letters of
Credence to President Paul Biya at the Unity Palace. Earlier the same day, he
presented the advance copies of his Letters of Credence to the Minister of
External Relations, Prof. Pierre Moukoko Mbonjo.

After over half a century of bilateral relations between the two countries,
Cameroon and Canada have moved from a donor-beneficiary relationship to one of
trade partners. That change was illustrated by the signing of a Foreign
Investment Promotion and Protection Agreement (FIPA) in Toronto on March 3,
2014. Cameroon was both Canada's second top export destination and second
largest import source in the Central African region in 2013. The same year,
two-way merchandise trade reached 53.1 million US Dollars (about FCFA 29.2
billion).

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              405 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             January 9, 2015 Friday

Carnage in France and the immigration dilemma

SECTION: NATION & WORLD; Views; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 643 words



HIGHLIGHT: Immigration


Western values such as freedom of speech and freedom of the press were brutally
challenged in the terrorist attack that took 12 lives in the offices of a French
satirical newspaper.

This massacre can only widen the growing and dangerous gap between Europeans and
the thousands of refugees fleeing the political, military and economic crises in
their homelands  - and underscores the complex challenges immigration can pose
to all nations, including the United States.

In Europe, there's an undeclared war going on.  To the extent it is cultural, on
one side are those to whom these Western values are central to their lives; the
other side consists of newcomers who have little experience with such personal
freedoms.

The presence of these refugees, and the prospect of many more seeking safety,
has engendered bitter resentments.

In fact, Europe - and especially Germany - has a far bigger immigration problem
than the one that has caused so much debate among America's political leaders.

Americans of a certain age may still remember  the heart-rending photographs of
frightened Europeans fleeing the advancing German forces in the early days of
World War II.  That's when Europeans themselves were the refugees.

Today, German Chancellor Angela Merkel finds herself facing a refugee problem of
starkly different origins but one that nevertheless is painfully reminiscent of
those ugly days of her nation's history.

Some Germans accuse the refugees of taking jobs from the native population and -
no surprise - of diluting Germany's religious values by introducing Muslim
customs and beliefs.

There have been sizable demonstrations against the refugees, particularly in
Dresden and Berlin, and to her credit Merkel has been bluntly critical of them.

Some, perhaps even most, Germans are sensitive to any suggestion their country
has callously forgotten the hideous pains of religious persecution inflicted on
minorities when the Nazis were in charge.

But as the killings in Paris remind us, the present refugee problem is by no
means confined to Germany.

Consider Italy's situation: Recently, shameless smugglers have taken to loading
decrepit cargo ships with refugees from Syria's civil war and from the
instability of several North African countries. The smugglers collect their
fares, set the ships on a course to Italy and then abandon the refugees at sea.

Fortunately, Italy has been able to rescue these drifting freighters and save
thousands, of lives.

Meanwhile, in the United Kingdom, a relatively new, out-of-the-mainstream
right-wing anti-immigration political party has captured two seats in
Parliament, although a new forecast predicts that the Conservative Party, led by
Prime Minister David Cameron, will prevail in May's general election.

So far in the United States there is no political party formed solely to
influence our country's immigration policies, and even those who promote the
concept of immigration reform can't agree on what should be done.

The debate in this country, although sometimes heated and even ugly, is mild and
respectable compared to that in Europe.

Immigrants' beliefs and practices always should be respected, but it is not
being xenophobic for the United States and other nations to expect its newcomers
to also respect Western  values.

The carnage in France is a case of zealots having no regard for the practices of
their host nation and illustrates why vigilance is essential.

But it is also important to remember that the fanatics are the exception.

The killers who slaughtered the French journalists remind us that some
immigrants do pose a threat, and nations have a responsibility to secure their
borders and monitor suspicious individuals. But these crazed murderers should
not make us forget most immigrants, regardless of faith or native land,  are,
like the rest of us, simply trying to build a better life.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              406 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Hunger in the News: Child Hunger, Refugees, Burundi and Mass Incarceration

LENGTH: 290  words


Washington, D.C.: Bread for the World has issued the following news release:

"Congress must end child hunger in America," by William Lambers, The
Courier-Journal. "It was President Harry Truman who said, "No nation is any
healthier than its children." Yet, today almost 16 million children live in
hunger in the United States."

"Fleeing war and poverty, refugees heading toward Italy abandoned at sea," PBS
News Hour. "Refugees fleeing war and poverty in North Africa and the Middle East
often are forced to cross the Mediterranean sea in rickety, overcrowded boats.
Recently, an increase in human smugglers abandoning these ships before reaching
Europe have forced EU countries to take on these migrants and ships at
unprecedented levels."

"Hunger Gnaws at Burundi's Soul," by Hannah McNeish, Voice of America. "Recent
studies indicate Africa's little, and little-known, country of Burundi is the
hungriest place on earth. War, poverty and overpopulation have left up to two
thirds of the residents with chronic food shortages, stunting people's growth
physically and also professionally, while rising demands for scarce resources
pose serious problems for Burundi's stability. In Ngozi province, in the north,
charities are using a variety of methods to fight the war on hunger."

"This map shows which states led the way on America's drive toward mass
incarceration," by German Lopez, Vox. "Following the start of the war on drugs
in the 1970s, America's prison population skyrocketed as the country locked up
even the lowest-level drug offenders in hopes of tamping down on drug use and
the crime wave of the 1960s through 1980s."

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              407 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                            December 26, 2014 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Pope dials Christmas Eve call to refugees

BYLINE: Philip Pullella; in Vantican City

SECTION: A; Pg. A015

LENGTH: 454  words


Pope dials Christmas Eve call to refugees By Philip Pullella in Vantican City
Pope Frances celebrates Christmas Eve mass at St Peter's in the Vatican.Photo:
Getty Images Hours before his Christmas Eve service, Pope Francis made a
surprise telephone call to comfort Christian refugees who were about to
celebrate their own Christmas Eve mass in a refugee camp in Ankawa, Iraq.

"You are like Jesus on Christmas night.

There was no room for him either, and he had to flee to Egypt later to save
himself," the 78-year-old Argentine pope told them in the call arranged by the
Italian Catholic television station Sat2000. The refugees fled Islamic State
fighters who have persecuted Shi'ite Muslims, Christians and others in Syria and
Iraq who do not share the group's ideologies.

The pope has several times condemned the "barbaric violence" of IS fighters,
most recently during his trip to Turkey last month.

Pope Francis later led a solemn Christmas Eve Mass for thousands of people in St
Peter's Basilica.

It is the second Christmas season for the pope, who was elected last year as the
first non-European pontiff in 1,300 years.

He has brought an air of simplicity to the Vatican, refusing many of the
trappings of office, and has made plain his determination to reform the Vatican
and bring the Church's hierarchy closer to rank-and-file Catholics.

In his homily, Francis, wearing white vestments, said Christmas is a time to
remember that God's message of peace "is stronger than darkness and corruption".

"The question put to us simply by the infant's presence is, 'Do I allow God to
love me?"' he said. "Do we have the courage to welcome with tenderness the
difficulties and problems of those who are near to us ...?"

"How much the world needs tenderness today" he said.

On Thursday morning, the pope will deliver his traditional Christmas Day "Urbi
et Orbi" (to the city and the world) blessing and message from the central
balcony of St Peter's Square to tens of thousands of people.

The pope has a busy year ahead of him. He has several international trips
planned, including to Sri Lanka and the Philippines in January. He is also due
to visit Africa, the United States and Latin America.

Next month Pope Francis is due to announce the names of a new batch of
cardinals, the "princes" of the Church who are eligible to enter a secret
conclave to elect a new pope after his death or resigna- tion.

Another key project due to take shape in 2015 is the reform of the Curia, the
Vatican's central administration.

In Christmas greetings on Monday to the Vatican's top administrators, Pope
Francis delivered a stinging critique of Vatican bureaucracy and outlined 15
illnesses plaguing the Curia, including "spiritual Alzheimer's".

Reuters

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


       Copyright 2014 The Federal Capital Press of Australia PTY Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              408 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                  Korea Times

                           December 23, 2014 Tuesday

Refugees must be protected, even at sea

BYLINE: By Mark Hetfield

LENGTH: 825 words


How can we possibly protect someone who, having lost everything else, risks his
life by fleeing on an unseaworthy boat? Refugees take to rough waters because
there are no alternative migration channels on land - and they prefer the risk
at sea over the violence and despair they are fleeing.

I have just returned from a meeting convened by the United Nations Refugee
Agency (UNHCR) in Geneva of government officials, advocates and experts from
around the world to confront one of the most "wicked problems" of the global
refugee landscape - migration by sea. Faced with a staggering loss of life of
migrants who escape by boat despite huge risks, one goal of the dialogue was to
deter governments who "rescue" boat people by returning them to their
persecutors. While harrowing accounts of perilous, overcrowded maritime escapes
from the Middle East and North Africa are making headlines in Australia and
Europe, they have gotten little attention in the United States. Yet we too have
"boat people," mostly Haitians and Cubans.

From 2010 through the first half of 2014, 15,190 people in 440 recorded maritime
incidents sought safety via boats carrying migrants in the Caribbean Sea. During
this time, some 240 migrants drowned, and 176 were missing at sea. The U.S.
Coast Guard picked up the rest. The victims of these incidents were men, women
and child migrants from Haiti, Cuba, Dominican Republic and other countries of
the Caribbean and South America.

All migrants intercepted in the Caribbean must be given meaningful access to
asylum in accordance with the Refugee Convention of 1951 and its 1967 Protocol.
Currently, Cubans and Chinese interdicted by the U.S. are advised of their right
to apply for asylum in their own language. It is unclear whether Dominicans,
South Americans and other migrants are treated the same.

What is clear is that the United States government treats Haitians differently
and unfairly.

In 2002, President George W. Bush signed an Executive Order authorizing the
Attorney General to return individuals to Haiti without an obligation to screen
for a fear of persecution. This order, similar to orders issues by previous
Administrations, remains in effect and is in direct violation of U.S.
obligations under international law.

During the last three decades, U.S. Coast Guard has returned all Haitians who do
not demonstrate a "physical manifestation" of a fear or return. Those that pass
this "shout test" or "sweat test" may be referred for an asylum screening.

The shout test does not pass the smell test. It is ineffective as a refugee
screening tool and makes a mockery of international legal standards. No Haitian
has been granted asylum after having been "screened" in this careless and
arbitrary fashion. The U.S. Coast Guard has subsequently identified one Haitian
as having a manifestation of fear, and that person did not pass the credible
fear screening. In contrast, in 2010, 55 percent of Haitians who applied for
asylum in the U.S. after arriving by air or land were granted asylum.

All U.S. Coast Guard rescue efforts should include procedures that advise
migrants of their right to seek asylum if they fear return. The U.S. should not
return an intercepted person until he or she has an opportunity to be
individually screened, preferably on land, for a fear of persecution.

Also concerning are the bilateral agreements on interdiction in the region. For
example, the U.S. engages in joint interdiction operations with the Bahamas.
Pursuant to these agreements, migrants are disembarked in the Bahamas, where
there is no meaningful process to identify those with a fear of return. This is
unacceptable. The U.S. should review the practice of sending intercepted
migrants to countries that are not known to respect their international
obligations. Such obligations are enshrined in the 1951 Refugee Convention and
other international human rights instruments.

The U.S. should provide alternative channels for safe and legal migration that
would reduce the need for refugees to risk their lives at sea, including
development assistance in the region, humanitarian visas, and opportunities for
legal migration.

The recent announcement by the U.S. government of a Haitian Family Reunification
program, which permits certain Haitians to join family members in the United
States, is a good step. Such legal avenues provide an alternative to migration
by sea - and more importantly, to the potential loss of life. As the High
Commissioner said at the Geneva dialogue, "Protection at sea starts with
protection on land."

There are no easy answers to the dilemma posed by migrants who flee danger by
sailing into danger. But even at sea, all individuals have the right to seek
protection from persecution without having to "shout" or "sweat." Motivated by
refugee protection, we hope the U.S. and other governments not only spoke during
the dialogue, but also listened. That might save lives.

Mark Hetfield is president and CEO

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Korea Times
                              All Rights Reserved

                              409 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            November 21, 2014 Friday

Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2015

LENGTH: 541  words

DATELINE: Washington


Office of the Federal Register has issued the following notice:

Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2015 Back to
Top
Memorandum for the Secretary of State Back to Top

In accordance with section 207 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (the
"Act") (8 U.S.C. 1157), and after appropriate consultations with the Congress, I
hereby make the following determinations and authorize the following actions:

The admission of up to 70,000 refugees to the United States during Fiscal Year
(FY) 2015 is justified by humanitarian concerns or is otherwise in the national
interest; provided that this number shall be understood as including persons
admitted to the United States during FY 2015 with Federal refugee resettlement
assistance under the Amerasian immigrant admissions program, as provided below.

The admissions numbers shall be allocated among refugees of special humanitarian
concern to the United States in accordance with the following regional
allocations; provided that the number of admissions allocated to the East Asia
region shall include persons admitted to the United States during FY 2015 with
Federal refugee resettlement assistance under section 584 of the Foreign
Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act of 1988,
as contained in section 101(e) of 100 (Amerasian immigrants and their family
members):
 Africa  17,000
 East Asia  13,000
 Europe and Central Asia  1,000
 Latin America and Caribbean  4,000
 Near East and South Asia  33,000
 Unallocated Reserve  2,000

The 2,000 unallocated refugee numbers shall be allocated to regional ceilings,
as needed. Upon providing notification to the Judiciary Committees of the
Congress, you are hereby authorized to use unallocated admissions in regions
where the need for additional admissions arises.

Additionally, upon notification to the Judiciary Committees of the Congress, you
are further authorized to transfer unused admissions allocated to a particular
region to one or more other regions, if there is a need for greater admissions
for the region or regions to which the admissions are being transferred.
Consistent with section 2(b)(2) of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of
1962, I hereby determine that assistance to or on behalf of persons applying for
admission to the United States as part of the overseas refugee admissions
program will contribute to the foreign policy interests of the United States and
designate such persons for this purpose.

Consistent with section 101(a)(42) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(42)), and after
appropriate consultation with the Congress, I also specify that, for FY 2015,
the following persons may, if otherwise qualified, be considered refugees for
the purpose of admission to the United States within their countries of
nationality or habitual residence:

a. Persons in Cuba

b. Persons in Eurasia and the Baltics

c. Persons in Iraq

d. Persons in Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador

e. In exceptional circumstances, persons identified by a United States Embassy
in any location

You are authorized and directed to publish this determination in the Federal
Register.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              410 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            November 21, 2014 Friday

Washington: Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year
2015 Memorandum for the Secretary of State

LENGTH: 685  words

DATELINE: Washington


Federal Register, The Government of USA has issued the following notice:

[Federal Register Volume 79, Number 225 (Friday, November 21, 2014)]
[Presidential Documents]
[Pages 69753-69754]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Printing Office
[www.gpo.gov]
[FR Doc No: 2014-27860]


 Presidential Documents

Federal Register / Vol. 79, No. 225 / Friday, November 21, 2014 /
Presidential Documents

[[Page 69753]]


 Presidential Determination No. 2014-17 of September 30,
 2014


Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions
 for Fiscal Year 2015

Memorandum for the Secretary of State

In accordance with section 207 of the Immigration and
 Nationality Act (the ``Act'') (8 U.S.C. 1157), and
 after appropriate consultations with the Congress, I
 hereby make the following determinations and authorize
 the following actions:

The admission of up to 70,000 refugees to the United
 States during Fiscal Year (FY) 2015 is justified by
 humanitarian concerns or is otherwise in the national
 interest; provided that this number shall be understood
 as including persons admitted to the United States
 during FY 2015 with Federal refugee resettlement
 assistance under the Amerasian immigrant admissions
 program, as provided below.

The admissions numbers shall be allocated among
 refugees of special humanitarian concern to the United
 States in accordance with the following regional
 allocations; provided that the number of admissions
 allocated to the East Asia region shall include persons
 admitted to the United States during FY 2015 with
 Federal refugee resettlement assistance under section
 584 of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and
 Related Programs Appropriations Act of 1988, as
 contained in section 101(e) of Public Law 100-202
 (Amerasian immigrants and their family members):




   Africa................................................. 17,000 ......
   East Asia.............................................. 13,000 ......
   Europe and Central Asia................................ 1,000 ......
   Latin America and Caribbean............................ 4,000 ......
   Near East and South Asia............................... 33,000 ......
   Unallocated Reserve.................................... 2,000 ......

 The 2,000 unallocated refugee numbers shall be
 allocated to regional ceilings, as needed. Upon
 providing notification to the Judiciary Committees of
 the Congress, you are hereby authorized to use
 unallocated admissions in regions where the need for
 additional admissions arises.

Additionally, upon notification to the Judiciary
 Committees of the Congress, you are further authorized
 to transfer unused admissions allocated to a particular
 region to one or more other regions, if there is a need
 for greater admissions for the region or regions to
 which the admissions are being transferred. Consistent
 with section 2(b)(2) of the Migration and Refugee
 Assistance Act of 1962, I hereby determine that
 assistance to or on behalf of persons applying for
 admission to the United States as part of the overseas
 refugee admissions program will contribute to the
 foreign policy interests of the United States and
 designate such persons for this purpose.

Consistent with section 101(a)(42) of the Act (8 U.S.C.
 1101(a)(42)), and after appropriate consultation with
 the Congress, I also specify that, for FY 2015, the
 following persons may, if otherwise qualified, be
 considered refugees for the purpose of admission to the
 United States within their countries of nationality or
 habitual residence:

a. Persons in Cuba
 b. Persons in Eurasia and the Baltics

[[Page 69754]]

c. Persons in Iraq
 d. Persons in Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador
 e. In exceptional circumstances, persons identified
 by a United States Embassy in any location

You are authorized and directed to publish this
 determination in the Federal Register.


 (Presidential Sig.)

THE WHITE HOUSE,

Washington, September 30, 2014

[FR Doc. 2014-27860
Filed 11-20-14; 11:15 am]
Billing code 4710-10


In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              411 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 12, 2014 Wednesday

Namibian health ministry declares nine Congolese illegal immigrants Ebola-free

LENGTH: 374 words


Text of report by state-owned Namibian newspaper New Era website on 12 November

[Unattributed report: "Congolese Border Jumpers Ebola-Free"]

Windhoek

The Ministry of Health and Social Services yesterday declared nine Congolese
nationals who entered Namibia illegally through undesignated points of entry as
being Ebola-free after they were screened.

The unidentified Congolese nationals comprising of men, a woman and children
allegedly travelled from the DRC through Zambia by truck whereafter they
illegally proceeded and crossed into Katima Mulilo by using dugout canoes.

"We entered Namibia via Zambia at Sesheke and got on a canoe into the Zambezi
River which loaded us off at Katima Mulilo on 29 September," said one them who
gave his name as Gabriel Manga.

They then boarded another truck from Katima Mulilo which illegally transported
them to Windhoek at the end of September.

Officials only found the group had entered Namibia through undesignated entry
points this week when they approached the Ministry of Home Affairs for refugee
status to be resettled at the Osire refugee camp.

When New Era arrived at the Ministry of Home Affairs and Immigration yesterday,
a registered nurse, Maureen Hoes, screened the group one by one for any symptoms
of the deadly Ebola virus that kills 9 out of its 10 victims.

Fortunately, she said, the group which claims to be a family were declared "free
and safe" from the deadly virus after 21 days of quarantine had lapsed.

"They are on the safe side because they have been here for more than 21 days
without any symptoms or signs," Hoes said.

The Commissioner for Refugees in Namibia, Nkrumah Mushelenga, has warned truck
drivers to stop trafficking people into Namibia without going through
immigration officials who perform screening and detection for Ebola.

"They can be charged if one is found trafficking people into Namibia illegally.
These people came in as a result of telephone calls by their relatives who are
already housed at Osire informing them about the resettlement to the United
States of America, Canada, Finland and Australia," he said.

Ebola is believed to have killed over 4 000 people in West Africa since its
outbreak early this year.

Source: New Era website, Windhoek, in English 12 Nov 14

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              412 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               New Era (Windhoek)

                               November 12, 2014

Congolese Border Jumpers Ebola-Free

LENGTH: 340 words

DATELINE: Windhoek


The Ministry of Health and Social Services yesterday declared nine Congolese
nationals who entered Namibia illegally through undesignated points of entry as
being Ebola-free after they were screened.

The unidentified Congolese nationals comprising of men, a woman and children
allegedly travelled from the DRC through Zambia by truck whereafter they
illegally proceeded and crossed into Katima Mulilo by using dugout canoes.

"We entered Namibia via Zambia at Sesheke and got on a canoe into the Zambezi
River which loaded us off at Katima Mulilo on 29 September," said one them who
gave his name as Gabriel Manga.

They then boarded another truck from Katima Mulilo which illegally transported
them to Windhoek at the end of September.

Officials only found the group had entered Namibia through undesignated entry
points this week when they approached the Ministry of Home Affairs for refugee
status to be resettled at the Osire refugee camp.

When New Era arrived at the Ministry of Home Affairs and Immigration yesterday,
a registered nurse, Maureen Hoes, screened the group one by one for any symptoms
of the deadly Ebola virus that kills 9 out of its 10 victims.

Fortunately, she said, the group which claims to be a family were declared "free
and safe" from the deadly virus after 21 days of quarantine had lapsed.

"They are on the safe side because they have been here for more than 21 days
without any symptoms or signs," Hoes said.

The Commissioner for Refugees in Namibia, Nkrumah Mushelenga, has warned truck
drivers to stop trafficking people into Namibia without going through
immigration officials who perform screening and detection for Ebola.

"They can be charged if one is found trafficking people into Namibia illegally.
These people came in as a result of telephone calls by their relatives who are
already housed at Osire informing them about the resettlement to the United
States of America, Canada, Finland and Australia," he said.

Ebola is believed to have killed over 4 000 people in West Africa since its
outbreak early this year.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              413 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                     The Idaho Business Review (Boise, ID)

                           November 5, 2014 Wednesday

New program aims to match refugees with professional jobs

BYLINE: IBR Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 296  words


The Idaho Office for Refugees and Mountain States Group has created a program
this year to help highly-skilled refugees find professional-level jobs. The
program, Global Talent Idaho, is aimed at refugees who have at least the
equivalent of a bachelor's degree and two years of work experience.

The program is recruiting Idaho professionals to serve as mentors, coaches and
guides for the immigrants as they look for work and gain access to professional
networks.

Just under 4,000 refugees from foreign countries have arrived in Idaho in the
last four years.

About 20 percent of the adult refugees who move to Idaho have professional
degrees and experience, said Lisa Cooper, a consultant with Global Talent Idaho.

"They are doctors, engineers of all types, from civil engineering to software
engineering, there are nurses, accountants, there are people who have MBAs or
have worked as high-level managers; it's really a range," Cooper said. There's
often a language barrier, she noted.

"All of the people who participate are able to communicate in a business
environment, but when English isn't your native language there are always going
to be some challenges," she said.

According to Jan Reeves, the director of the Idaho Office for Refugees, 998
refugees arrived in Idaho between October 2009 and October this year. They came
from more than two dozen countries in Africa, Asia, Europe, and Latin America
and the Caribbean.

The majority came from Iraq. In the last year, nearly 30 percent of the refugees
who arrived in Idaho were from Iraq; over the last four years, 22 percent were.

Other large groups are from Congo, Burma, and Bhutan.



http://www.idahobusinessreview.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more
from this resource.

© 2014 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved

                              414 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                            November 2, 2014 Sunday
                                 METRO EDITION

DRAWN NORTH

BYLINE: MILA KOUMPILOVA; STAFF WRITER, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1591 words



HIGHLIGHT: After a dip in 2008, a second wave of Somali refugees is arriving in
the state. But with fewer family ties, this group faces a new set of challenges


A week after the United States government resettled them in Connecticut this
summer, Nur Ali and his wife, Mahado Mohamed, had decided: They were moving to
Minnesota.

Tales of the state's large Somali community had intrigued them back in the
Kenyan refugee camp where they had married and had five children. Now, a Somali
man they met in Hartford told them all recent arrivals head to Minnesota, home
of "Little Mogadishu."

After a major dip in 2008, the yearly numbers of new Somali refugees in
Minnesota have rebounded steadily. The number of Somalis resettled in the state
has more than tripled in four years. As resettlements nationally have picked up,
more Somalis are also arriving here after brief stints in other states - often
trading early support from resettlement agencies for the company of more fellow
Somalis.

"You tend to go somewhere you can connect," said Mohamud Noor, the head of the
Confederation of Somali Community in Minnesota. "Before people even arrive from
Africa, they know they are coming to Minnesota."

But without the Twin Cities family ties of earlier arrivals, these newcomers
often can't lean as heavily on longer-term Somali residents. Mary's Place, a
Minneapolis homeless shelter, has become ground zero for families like Ali and
Mohamed's. Somali participation in the state's public food assistance program
doubled in the past five years. Meanwhile, the Minneapolis School District, its
Somali student enrollment up 70 percent since 2011, launched eight classrooms
with instruction in both English and Somali to help newcomers catch up.

In some ways, Ali and Mohamed have had a steeper learning curve than Somalis who
settled in Minnesota in the 1990s and early 2000s. The couple spent their entire
adult lives in tents at Kenya's sprawling, overcrowded Hagadera refugee camp.
They didn't have family or close friends who resettled in America before them,
and their notion of life in the United States was forged out of camp legend.

"We always used to think when you come to America, you have a lot of money and
life is really easy," Ali said through a translator. "We have been surprised."

Ali and Mohamed are part of a new wave of Somali refugees. Until 2008, the state
resettled only refugees reuniting with family here.

But that year, DNA tests showed only about 20 percent of applicants in a refugee
family reunification program, most of them from Africa, were actually related to
their stateside sponsors. The program was suspended, even as Somalis argued a
broader definition of family was as much a factor as fraud. The number of new
Somali arrivals plummeted, from a high of more than 3,200 in 2006 to 180 in
2009.

Meanwhile, more stringent background checks for refugees in 2010 snarled the
application process. Larry Bartlett, the U.S. Refugee Admissions program
director, says the streamlining of security checks since and the resumption of
the family reunification program in 2012 led to the recent increase in Somali
arrivals - a trend he expects to continue in the next few years.

In the fiscal year that ended in September, Minnesota welcomed almost 1,050
Somali refugees arriving directly from Africa, most of them without family ties
to the state. Nationally, 9,000 Somalis were resettled, up from about 2,500 in
2008.

No 'out-migration'

The exact numbers of Somalis moving to Minnesota from other states are hard to
track. But there's little doubt their ranks have swelled, too. The federal
Office of Refugee Resettlement compiles partial numbers showing about 2,620
total refugee arrivals from other states in 2013, up from 1,835 two years
earlier - making Minnesota the state with the highest in-migration by far.

"This has always been an issue for Minnesota," said Kim Dettmer of Lutheran
Social Service, one of the agencies that helps resettle refugees who come
directly to Minnesota. "We have in-migration. We don't really have
out-migration."

After arriving from Kampala, Uganda, Ayan Ahmed and her nine children, ages 4 to
18, spent six months in Phoenix. There, Catholic Charities had lined up a
furnished four-bedroom home for the family and a neurologist for Ahmed's eldest
son, who is blind.

But then, some financial support Ahmed received as a refugee was about to dry
up, and she worried about covering her $1,200 rent. Most Somali families she met
in Phoenix were longtime residents, the struggles of adjusting to a new country
long behind them. They urged her to go to Minnesota and raised money for the
plane tickets.

Ahmed, who is staying at Mary's Place, says local Somalis have picked up
groceries and takeout food for her, and lent a compassionate ear: "Some days, I
feel I stayed in Mogadishu."

Challenges for newcomers

Ali, a five-month pregnant Mohamed and their kids arrived in Minneapolis four
months ago without a detailed plan. They had used up most of their refugee cash
payments for the plane tickets.

At the airport, they met a Somali cabdriver who offered to drive them to Village
Market, a Somali mall in south Minneapolis. The family went to the mosque inside
the mall, prayed and asked for help. A Somali family agreed to put them up for
the night and took them to Mary's Place the next day. There, the couple, their
five older children and newborn daughter sleep on three bunk beds in their tidy
apartment.

In some ways, things are looking up: Ali is taking English classes and recently
found a full-time job as a butcher in a halal market. They have health insurance
and food stamps. But they have found they can rely only so much on local
Somalis, who are busy with their own lives. And saving up enough money to move
into their own place is an elusive goal that weighs heavily on Ali.

With limited ties to the local Somali community, recent Somali arrivals face a
new set of challenges. Community leaders say it used to be unthinkable that a
Somali family should land in a homeless shelter: Newcomers could invoke the most
tenuous family connection to move into famously hospitable Somali homes
indefinitely.

But these days longer-term residents recovering from the recession might balk at
putting up complete strangers. Meanwhile, affordable housing for large families
is scarce, especially in Hennepin County.

Ironically, community activists such as Abdirizak Bihi say, these newcomers
might need more support than earlier arrivals. Many have spent most of their
lives in makeshift camps such as Qabri Bayah in Ethiopia, with basic amenities
and limited access to formal education.

When these refugees move too soon after arriving in a different state, they get
cut off from resettlement agencies there responsible for finding homes and jobs
for them. Noor, whose group tries to assist newcomers with navigating the
transition, says the federal government needs to do more to discourage this
early migration. At the U.S. State Department, Bartlett says staff members
strive to honor refugees' host city preference. Some refugees even sign a
document affirming they are going to the city where they want to stay.

"The problem with moving quickly is that the benefits don't always follow you,"
Bartlett said. "We really try to impress that upon them."

Adjusting to the influx

Mary Jo Copeland, the founder of Mary's Place, says as many as 60 of the
shelter's roughly 90 units are occupied by Somali families, generally recent
arrivals from Africa by way of another state. Copeland, who hired two
Somali-speaking advocates to help

the families with job- and apartment-hunting and more, says these residents have
impressed her: They take English classes, keep their apartments immaculate and
save up everything they earn working at day cares, groceries and cab companies.

"You name the state, they are from all over," she said. "As soon as they move
out, others move in."

The number of Somali adults and children who participated in the state's family
cash assistance program jumped 34 percent from 2008 to 2013, to 5,950. At the
same time, food assistance participation increased 98 percent, to 17,300 adults
and children, which does not include U.S.-born Somalis. Census numbers place the
Minnesota Somali community at more than 33,000, a count Somali leaders say
underestimates its size by tens of thousands.

The Minneapolis School District responded to a major uptick in new Somali
students by launching the NABAD program, an acronym that's also a greeting in
Somali. The district is almost 10 percent Somali this fall. The new classrooms -
two last year, eight this fall after promising early results - feature an
English language learner teacher and a Somali-speaking aide. Students spend a
school year there before joining the mainstream.

At Andersen United Community School, teacher Stephany Jallo and her third-
through fifth-graders recently went over a picture book called "Nabeel's New
Pants," about a group of kids who receive clothes as gifts to wear for the
Islamic holiday Eid. At each of Jallo's questions, hands shot up. Other students
looked to Hamdi Ahmed, a visiting co-teacher, who translated into Somali.

Jallo says four of her 20 students came with no formal education, but most are
making rapid progress: "I have no doubt I have future doctors, lawyers, teachers
and scientists in my class."

Ali and Mohamed's kids also have academic catching up to do. These days, the
parents worry about affording winter coats, an apartment and furniture. But when
they see their kids cracking open their homework minutes after getting home -
the glass facade of Target Field gleaming beyond the kitchen window - Ali and
Mohamed's faces fill with hope.

Mila Koumpilova · 612-673-4781

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2014 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              415 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           October 30, 2014 Thursday

Passage to Casablanca: the Refugee Crisis in Morocco during World War II

LENGTH: 241  words

DATELINE: berkeley


berkeley University of California has isasued tha following news release:

Passage to Casablanca: the Refugee Crisis in Morocco during World War II

Lecture | October 30 | 5-6:30 p.m. | Stephens Hall, 340, Sultan Conference Room

Speaker: Prof. Susan Gilson Miller, Department of History, UC Davis

Sponsor: Center for Middle Eastern Studies

The massive influx of European refugees into Morocco during World War II had
lasting effects on that country's social, economic, and political life. Against
the background of a fractured and depleted colonial system, thousands of
Europeans set adrift by war struggled to maintain a temporary foothold in North
Africa, using it as a way station to more secure havens in North and South
America. Some Europeans passed through quickly, while others were truly stranded
and became enmeshed in native society as penniless migrants, petty criminals,
political activists, forced laborers, ambitious entrepreneurs, and political
"undesirables." In this lecture, Susan Miller examines the array of conjunctures
between Europeans and Moroccans in the chaotic years of 1940 to 1945, when
themes of race, class, ethnicity, nationalism, legal status, and religious
difference transfixed people caught in the web of the humanitarian crisis
brought on by global war.

Event Contact: cmes@berkeley.edu, 510-642-8208

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              416 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           Star-News (Wilmington, NC)

                           October 22, 2014 Wednesday
                                  1ST Edition

BYLINE: Jake Grovum; Stateline.org

SECTION: Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 843 words


RICHMOND, VA. | Asein Ta wasn't yet a teenager when he left his native Myanmar
(also known as Burma) and followed his uncle, who hobbled on one leg, on a
treacherous three-day journey across mountains and into one of Thailand's
largest refugee camps.

"He said there was good out there, something different," said Ta, now 21. Ta's
mother sent him away so he could escape the persecution his family and other
ethnic Karens faced in their native land. She died shortly after he left.

Five years later, Ta was on a plane to Richmond, Va., helped by a little-known
resettlement effort called the Unaccompanied Refugee Minors (URM) program, which
is operated by the U.S. government with help from states and local charities. In
nearly 35 years, the program has helped some 13,000 children from Southeast
Asia, Africa and Latin America to escape from war, persecution and natural
disasters.

Now some see URM as a way to help some of the unaccompanied Central American
children who have been surging across the U.S. border with Mexico. In fiscal
year 2014, 44,000 children crossed the border alone, compared with fewer than
4,000 in 2011. The influx has swamped border detention and processing
facilities.

The U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees has argued that the Central American
children, some of whom have been victims of violence, trafficking or other
crimes, are refugees who should be eligible for asylum. But the U.S. government
has not given them that designation as a group, which would help open the door
to URM eligibility.

There's also the question of the program's limited resources: URM served 3,828
children at its peak in 1985; today it serves about 1,800. It's unclear whether
the program could be expanded to serve a significant percentage of the Central
American kids if they were deemed to be eligible.

Nevertheless, some argue that granting refugee status to the Central American
children would be the surest way to get them the help and care they need.
Kimberly Haynes of Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service, which partners with
the federal government and states in operating URM, said there is little
difference between the Central American kids and refugees from Asia or Africa
who've enrolled in the program over the years.

"It's scary to recognize that both populations have the same level of
traumatization," Haynes said "You can't really distinguish the difference. The
situations are pretty horrific."

Fourteen states and the District of Columbia administer their own URM programs.
The federal government relies on states and local agencies to carry out the
program, since they have the most experience providing social services such as
foster care and housing aid.

Federal money for URM flows through the Office of Refugee Resettlement, which is
part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. As attention to
refugee crises has grown since the early 1980s, more states have agreed to
participate.

Under the program, states are required to ensure that children get health care,
legal aid, education, housing and other services. Two private agencies, the
United States Conference of Catholic Bishops and Lutheran Immigration and
Refugee Service, both of which have experience in dealing with refugees, also
supply case workers and caregiving help.

The states also are responsible for monitoring the programs and for covering any
ancillary costs, but the core benefits are paid for by the federal government.
In the current fiscal year, the federal government is set to spend $383 million
on "transitional and medical services" for refugee programs, which includes URM,
among other programs.

In fiscal year 2013, there were 1,850 children in the program, according to an
agency report, up from 1,409 in 2011. According to the Office of Refugee
Resettlement's 2012 report to Congress, the most recent available, 342 children
entered the program that year. Honduras, Guatemala and Mexico were among the top
five countries of origin for those children. During that year, a third of the
children in the program were from Latin America.

The way to determine refugee status, and eligibility for URM, is to investigate
the circumstances of their lives back home. The federal government has dedicated
more resources to doing just that.

President Barack Obama earlier this year opened the door for the children to be
treated as refugees when he said that some of the Central American children
might apply under "narrow circumstances."

He cautioned, however, that "refugee status is not granted just based on
economic need or because a family lives in a bad neighborhood or poverty." Obama
also noted that it is better for people to apply for refugee status in their
home countries before making the trip to America.

The federal requirements are a high bar for many of the Central American
children, and identifying those who might be without family entirely is even
more challenging, said Kristyn Peck of the United States Conference of Catholic
Bishops. "They're not necessarily going to come forth and say, 'I'm a refugee,
help me,' " she said.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 Star-News, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              417 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                 Stateline.org

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           October 16, 2014 Thursday

Are Central American Kids 'Refugees'?

BYLINE: Jake Grovum, Stateline.org

SECTION: NATIONAL POLITICAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1409 words


Oct. 16--RICHMOND, Va. -- Asein Ta wasn't yet a teenager when he left his native
Myanmar (also known as Burma) and followed his uncle, who hobbled on one leg, on
a treacherous three-day journey across mountains and into one of Thailand's
largest refugee camps.

"He said there was good out there, something different," said Ta, now 21. Ta's
mother sent him away so he could escape the persecution his family and other
ethnic Karens faced in their native land. She died shortly after he left.

Five years later, Ta was on a plane to Richmond, Virginia, helped by a
little-known resettlement effort called the Unaccompanied Refugee Minors (URM)
program, which is operated by the U.S. government with help from states and
local charities. In nearly 35 years, the program has helped some 13,000 children
from Southeast Asia, Africa, and Latin America to escape from war, persecution
and natural disasters.

Now some see URM as a way to help some of the unaccompanied Central American
children who have been surging across the U.S. border with Mexico. In fiscal
year 2014, 44,000 children crossed the border alone, compared to fewer than
4,000 in 2011, as Stateline has reported. The influx has swamped border
detention and processing facilities.

The U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees has argued that the Central American
children, some of whom have been victims of violence, trafficking or other
crimes, are refugees who should be eligible for asylum. But the U.S. government
has not given them that designation as a group, which would help open the door
to URM eligibility.

There's also the question of the program's limited resources: URM served 3,828
children at its peak in 1985, and today it serves about 1,800. It's unclear
whether the program could be expanded to serve a significant percentage of the
Central American kids if they were deemed to be eligible.

Nevertheless, some argue that granting refugee status to the Central American
children would be the surest way to get them the help and care they need.
Kimberly Haynes of Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service, which partners with
the federal government and states in operating URM, said there is little
difference between the Central American kids and refugees from Asia or Africa
who've enrolled in the program over the years.

"It's scary to recognize that both populations have the same level of
traumatization," Haynes said "You can't really distinguish the difference. The
situations are pretty horrific."

'A Second Chance'

Fourteen states and the District of Columbia administer their own URM programs.
The federal government relies on states and local agencies to carry out the
program, since they have the most experience providing social services such as
foster care and housing aid.

Federal money for URM flows through the Office of Refugee Resettlement, which is
part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. As attention to
refugee crises has grown since the early 1980s, more states have agreed to
participate.

Under the program, states are required to ensure that children get health care,
legal aid, education, housing and other services. Two private agencies, the
United States Conference of Catholic Bishops and Lutheran Immigration and
Refugee Service, both of which have experience in dealing with refugees, also
supply case workers and caregiving help.

The states also are responsible for monitoring the programs and for covering any
ancillary costs, but the core benefits are paid for by the federal government.
In the current fiscal year, the federal government is set to spend $383 million
on "transitional and medical services" for refugee programs, which includes URM,
among other programs.

In fiscal year 2013, there were 1,850 children in the program, according to an
agency report, up from 1,409 in 2011. According to the Office of Refugee
Resettlement's 2012 report to Congress, the most recent available, 342 children
entered the program that year. Honduras, Guatemala and Mexico were among the top
five countries of origin for those children. During that year, a third of the
children in the program were from Latin America.

Workers connected to URM were at the Richmond airport to welcome Ta when he
arrived in March 2008 with little else but a few personal belongings, a
traditional monk's robe for clothes, and a shaved head, owing to his time spent
at a monastery in the refugee camp.

"If it wasn't for this program, I wouldn't have had a family," Ta said. "It's
like a second chance to have a family."

The core of URM's work is placing a child in a foster home. Because a child's
family situation can be unclear, the children in the program can't be adopted.
Legally, they are wards of the state.

Ta has come a long way since arriving in America six years ago. During his first
summer, he spent virtually all his waking hours learning English, flipping
through flash cards while in the car or eating dinner. It was frustrating at
first, he said. "But remember, I was a Buddhist monk."

He's since moved away from the monk lifestyle --"The American life is too busy,"
he said -- and he is attending community college in Richmond with the goal of
becoming a teacher.

A High Bar

Ta clearly was a refugee. The status of the Central American children is much
murkier.

The way to determine refugee status, and eligibility for URM, is to investigate
the circumstances of their lives back home. The federal government has dedicated
more resources to doing just that.

President Barack Obama earlier this year opened the door for the children to be
treated as refugees when he said that some of the Central American children
might apply under "narrow circumstances."

He cautioned, however, that "refugee status is not granted just based on
economic need or because a family lives in a bad neighborhood or poverty." Obama
also noted that it is better for people to apply for refugee status in their
home countries before making the trip to America.

The federal requirements are a high bar for many of the Central American
children, and identifying those who might be without family entirely is even
more challenging, said Kristyn Peck of the United States Conference of Catholic
Bishops. "They're not necessarily going to come forth and say, 'I'm a refugee,
help me,'" she said.

To those who argue the Central American kids are not refugees, that is as it
should be. "In the case of genuine refugees, these services are very
appropriate," said Jessica Vaughan of the Center for Immigration Studies, a
nonprofit research organization which generally advocates tighter immigration
policies. "People feel sorry for them, and there's no question that times are
tough in these countries. But generalized violence, or civil unrest, or lack of
civil society, has never before been an excuse for designating people as
refugees."

Expanding the scope of refugee status, Vaughan warned, could undermine efforts
that she sees as more worthwhile and in keeping with the common definition of
such programs.

"When people feel they're being abused, it threatens the existence of the
programs," Vaughan said. "They're not cheap, and so they shouldn't be used
gratuitously."

A Perilous Link?

Some fear that giving refugee status to the Central American children who
arrived in the country illegally would label URM as a program for unauthorized
child immigrants. Several officials connected with local chapters of the
program, contacted during the height of the Central American surge, refused to
speak about it, fearing their care for refugees would be linked with the
politicized and controversial issue of illegal immigration.

Those who were willing speak about URM offered effusive praise for it. One of
the program's key tenets is to offer refugees opportunities, if possible, to
live with foster parents or other refugees of similar cultural backgrounds.
Absent that, workers will seek out potential mentors in local refugee or
immigrant communities. It also offers cultural education and activities as part
of its services.

And because the children are building new lives in America, there's a sense of
stability and continuation of care that's unique among other foster care
programs, they say.

"This really is about permanency placement," said Charles Shipman, Arizona's
state refugee coordinator, said. "It's really very much focused on providing
foster care in a culturally sensitive way."

___ (c)2014 Stateline.org Visit Stateline.org at www.stateline.org Distributed
by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20141016-SH-Are-Central-American-Kids-Refugees-20141016

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SH


                            Copyright 2014 Stateline

                              418 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           October 15, 2014 Wednesday

'The Good Lie' wisely leaves story to the refugees

BYLINE: By Chris Hewitt chewitt@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: MOVIES

LENGTH: 419 words


The best thing about the new Reese Witherspoon movie is that she's not in it
much.

Witherspoon is fine in "The Good Lie," playing a strong-willed social worker,
but the movie is not about her character and it shouldn't be. Starting in
war-ravaged West Africa, "The Good Lie" follows a handful of Sudanese children
as they walk hundreds of miles to a refugee camp, where they hope to find a way
to the United States. Many years later, four of these "lost boys" and a lost
girl (sensitively played by Augsburg College grad Kuoth Wiel) make it to
America, only to discover a whole new set of struggles.

One of the smartest choices in "The Good Lie" is to acknowledge that
Witherspoon's Carrie has as much to learn from the Sudanese as they do from her.
And one of the film's best scenes, a quiet moment of reflection between the two
main female characters, underscores this point. Wiel's Abital, a young woman who
has already weathered many lifetimes' worth of hurt, learns that Carrie has lost
her sister to cancer. Abital immediately understands and asks, "And you wonder
why it was her, not you?"

Throughout "The Good Lie," the first English-language film from Philippe
Falardeau (who made the Oscar-nominated "Monsieur Lazhar"), there is a sense
that the filmmakers trust the inherent drama of the story, so they don't try to
embellish or sentimentalize it. Falardeau leavens the film with humor and takes
a low-key approach to the horrors of the story, smartly mirroring the
matter-of-fact, un-self-pitying way the Africans deal with the many setbacks
they face.

The mostly non-professional actors who play the Sudanese characters are all
excellent, but the most impressive is Arnold Oceng, who gives their principled
leader, Mamere, a quiet resolve. When he says, "We saved each other," he's
speaking the truth about how he and his friends survived but it also feels like
"The Good Lie" is making sure we know it's not (as it has been in many movies)
the pioneering white lady who saves the people of color. They saved themselves.

Later, that point is movingly underscored with an African proverb that serves as
a postscript to "The Good Lie": "If you want to go fast, go alone. If you want
to go far, go together."

Chris Hewitt can be reached at 651-228-5552. Follow him on
twitter.com/ChrisHMovie .

'THE GOOD LIE'

Directed by: Philippe Falardeau

Starring: Arnold Oceng, Kuoth Wiel, Reese Witherspoon

Rated: PG-13 for strong violence, some of it involving children

Should you go? Yes. It's a sensitive and inspiring tale. ***

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Arnold Oceng, Ger Duany and Augsburg College graduate Kuoth Wiel in
"The Good Lie."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              419 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                            October 4, 2014 Saturday
                                  Main Edition

Peach Buzz;
Atlanta-filmed 'The Good Lie' resonates with actors

BYLINE: Jennifer Brett; Staff

SECTION: LIVING; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 430 words


"The Good Lie," in theaters now, tells a huge story by telling a more narrowly
focused one.

The heartbreaking yet hopeful movie, filmed largely in Atlanta, is about
Sudanese refugees who came to be known as "the Lost Boys" after fleeing the
violence in their war-torn country. (According to the International Rescue
Committee, which has a presence in Atlanta, nearly 4,000 of the refugees came to
America in 2001, 120 of whom resettled in the Atlanta area with the IRC's help.)

The movie's promotional materials give top billing to Reese Witherspoon, who
plays a scatterbrained employment agency counselor who assists a small group of
refugees, but the narrative belongs to the children who fled for their lives,
walked thousands of miles, and endured cramped refugee camp conditions and then
a confusing resettlement to America.

Two of the movie's African actors, Arnold Oceng and Kuoth Weil, along with
screenwriter Margaret Nagle, visited Atlanta recently to discuss the film and
The Good Lie Fund, which benefits charities that assist refugees. (Information:
thegoodliefund.org.)

Weil was born to Sudanese parents in a refugee camp in Ethiopia after her
parents fled the fighting; she lost her father and brother to the war and has
been in America since she was 8. Oceng moved with his family to the U.K. as a
young child.

Q: Describe the experience of portraying this awful chapter in history.

Weil: It was difficult and empowering. I had to let go of my anger. There was a
struggle between being an American woman and being a Sudanese woman. When I read
the script, I had to sit down with my family and talk about it.

Oceng: I was nervous, but it was a challenge I was ready to accept. I'm telling
the story of my people. We fled the war and came over to the U.K. I've had a
very British upbringing. I was never really educated about my Sudanese side. I
feel like I had closed the door on my Sudanese side. Being part of the film has
opened that door again.

Q: Is it hard for you to watch the film?

Weil: I've seen it five times and I get emotional every time. For me, it's like
I'm reliving it.

Oceng: It's not only a story about Sudan or the Lost Boys. It's a story about
humanity, the love for your fellow sibling. There's a strong theme of faith.

Q: What feelings do you have about your native land?

Weil: Africa is a dark place right now. It's been for a very long time. You
can't give up hope. Even though my country is at war right now, we shouldn't
feel like we can give up. There is hope. We will have peace eventually.

Oceng: You can't give up hope. We are all testament to that.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Actors Arnold Oceng (left) and Kuoth Wiel (right), along with
screenwriter Margaret Nagle, were in Atlanta recently to talk about their new
movie, "The Good Lie." JENNIFER BRETT, JBRETT@AJC.COM /ImageData*

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2014 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                              420 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           October 1, 2014 Wednesday

'The Good Lie' is a survival story - and Minnesota woman's story

BYLINE: By Chris Hewitt chewitt@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT; Movies

LENGTH: 668 words


After a tumultuous childhood in Sudan, Kuoth Wiel spent most of her life in
Minnesota, growing up in Faribault and graduating last year from Augsburg
College in Minneapolis.

But here's where she has been in the past couple of weeks: Toronto, Dallas,
Boston, Miami, Orlando, New York, Washington, D.C., and Los Angeles, where she
now lives.

"I haven't had any downtime in any of them," the actress and model said, calling
from the back seat of a limo in Dallas.

All of the activity is to promote her movie "The Good Lie," which opens Friday
in New York and Los Angeles, and Oct. 25 in the Twin Cities.

A drama about the so-called "Lost Boys of Sudan," it features Wiel in the
supporting role of a lost girl who is separated from her friends when they
travel from a Kenyan refugee camp to America.

Oscar winner Reese Witherspoon has a supporting role, too, as a social worker
who helps the young people.

Wiel's character, Abital, has special resonance for her because her father, a
U.N. aid worker, was killed in the Sudanese civil war and her brother was a lost
boy who brought the rest of his family to the United States in 1998.

"I have siblings I don't even know where they are now," said Wiel, 26, who was
reminded of the strife in her homeland when protests erupted there last year.

"Everyone is displaced throughout the whole country. I've been talking to people
in refugee camps, and it's a story that we are not hearing in the media.

"When things started happening again (last December)," she said, "my uncle
called me, and I could hear gunshots in the background. It brought me back to
the feeling of war again. It's a weird feeling to be promoting a movie that is
so fresh to me and that is also happening again right now."

Although it begins in wartime, "The Good Lie" is mostly about four young people
and their attempt to adapt to a new culture. Parallels could be made to how Wiel
-- fresh from Minnesota and a rigorous series of auditions -- had to adapt to
life on movie sets in South Africa and Georgia, where she had her own trailer
and worked regularly with Witherspoon.

"She helped me relate things to regular life so it feels real, even though I
have all of these cameras on me and the situation is so unreal," said Wiel, who
said the main difference between her and her character is that Wiel is much more
out- spoken.

Still, there is plenty she can relate to in the movie, beginning with the
journey from Africa to the United States.

"Every time I see it, it's emotional because of the fact that it's so much like
my own personal story, and it's so well-balanced. There is some comedy but that
is never allowed to overpower the emotions," said Wiel, whose first name is
pronounced like "couth."

"I think it's going to come in handy. It's going to help refugees in Kakuma (the
refugee camp in Kenya from which the film's lost boys emigrated) and in the U.S.
People see the movie and say, 'Oh my gosh. How can I help?' We've set up The
Good Lie Foundation and we tell people that even one dollar will go far."

One irony of the similarities between Abital and Wiel is that they could blind
Hollywood to the differences. Casting agents may assume that the accent Wiel
learned for the film is her actual accent. In real life, she sounds like a
person from Minnesota, not someone from Sudan.

"People always ask about the accent," Wiel said with a chuckle. "I guess it's a
compliment that it feels so real for them that they think the actors are our
characters."

Wiel is taking acting classes, meeting with talent managers and modeling to
prepare for whatever comes next in her already-surprising career. Meanwhile,
she's eager to see how audiences respond to "The Good Lie."

"I hope people will see that it's not just a Sudanese story or an American
story," Wiel said. "It's a story of humanity. It's about love and togetherness
and faith that gives people resilience. The characters stuck together and that's
how they survived."

Chris Hewitt can be reached at 651-228-5552 or follow him on
twitter.com/ChrisHMovie .

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Minnesotan Kuoth Wiel plays Abital, a girl who is separated from
friends fleeing Sudan. (Courtesy photo: Bob Mahone)
Kuoth Wiel, second from left, in a scene from "The Good Lie," a drama about the
so-called Lost Boys of Sudan. It opens Friday, Oct. 3, 2014, in New York and Los
Angeles, and Oct. 25 in the Twin Cities. (Courtesy photo: Kelly Walsh)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              421 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         The Christian Science Monitor

                           September 29, 2014 Monday

Supply for refugees and their hosts;
A Christian Science perspective.

BYLINE: Kate Ness

SECTION: The Culture

LENGTH: 662 words


There has been quite a bit of attention in the news this summer about crises
caused by significant numbers of refugees and immigrants, whether they are
unaccompanied children from Central America coming to the United States,
families and individuals fleeing war-torn countries in the Middle East, or
groups of people trying to cross the Mediterranean to Europe in hopes of having
a better life than they had in Africa. Many of the news stories have discussed
how the sudden influx of people strains the resources of their destination and
how these countries can or should address these problems.

In reading one of those reports recently, I thought of several quotations from
Mary Baker Eddy, who discovered and founded Christian Science. In her book
"Science and Health with Key to the Scriptures," she writes, "In the scientific
relation of God to man, we find that whatever blesses one blesses all, as Jesus
showed with the loaves and the fishes, - Spirit, not matter, being the source of
supply" (p. 206). Elsewhere in the same book, she writes, "Soul has infinite
resources with which to bless mankind" (p. 60).

I love the idea that an action motivated by unselfish care for our fellow man is
based on the law of divine Love, God, and therefore it is supported by this
divine law. The understanding that man's source of supply is God, Spirit, Soul,
must bless everyone and cannot lead to want or scarcities. When seen in the
light of this law of Love, individuals or countries that choose to help refugees
and immigrants cannot be punished or harmed for their charity and compassion.
God meets every need of both the newcomers and their hosts, and He does not let
us, His children, lack anything. When one recognizes that Spirit, or God, is
infinite, it becomes clear that there cannot be any shortages or strain on
resources. In economic terms, God's economy is not a "zero-sum game," in which a
gain by some means a loss by others. God's infinite blessings are enough for
everyone.

The Bible account of the loaves and fishes that Mrs. Eddy mentions is a perfect
example of both infinite supply and infinite blessings. Jesus had spent three
days out in the countryside, healing and preaching to a group of more than 4,000
people. Near the end of the third day, Jesus said to his disciples that he did
not want to send the people away hungry, because they'd had nothing to eat for
the past three days. His disciples were skeptical and asked how he could feed so
many people when they were so far away from a town.

Jesus' response was to ask how much food they had, which amounted to seven
loaves of bread and a few small fishes. While the disciples probably saw this
limited amount as barely able to feed themselves, Jesus knew that it was just a
small glimpse of the infinite supply that God had prepared for them. They ended
up passing the food out to the multitude, and, after everyone had eaten, they
collected seven baskets full of leftovers (see Matthew 15:32-38, Mark 8:1-9).
According to the biblical accounts, no one left hungry or missed out on a meal.
The disciples were blessed by sharing their resources, and, in the end, they had
more than they started with.

As God's children, we all have constant access to this infinite supply of
resources, because God expresses His infinite goodness in man. By knowing what
is spiritually true and affirming God's unlimited blessings for each of His
children, we can all support the worldwide relief efforts, irrespective of where
we happen to live. Mrs. Eddy writes of God, "Love is impartial and universal in
its adaptation and bestowals" (Science and Health, p. 13). Everyone has endless
supply, regardless of where they are or who is around them. Whether the
situation requires food, as the crowd of people who were with Jesus did, or
whether it requires money, employment, housing, schools, clothing, or other
essentials, we can pray to understand more fully that God is tenderly and
lovingly supplying all needs.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved

                              422 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                           September 29, 2014 Monday

Lowell still a top site for refugees

BYLINE: By Grant Welker, gwelker@lowellsun.com

SECTION: TODAY'S HEADLINES

LENGTH: 436 words


LOWELL -- Refugees still come into Lowell to start their new lives in America,
just as they always have, most notably Cambodians fleeing the Khmer Rouge.
Refugees and immigrants have given the city one of the most diverse populations
in Massachusetts.

The International Institute of New England's Lowell office, the only refugee
resettlement agency in Middlesex County, has seen nearly 300 arrivals in the
past 11 months. As a city, Lowell trails only Worcester and West Springfield
among Massachusetts cities expecting the most refugees in the coming fiscal
year.

"Lowell, for a number of reasons, is still good for resettlement," Derek
Mitchell, director of the International Institute's Lowell branch, said Friday
at a meeting of refugee service providers at the Lowell Community Health Center.

Once here, refugees are given a tour of the necessities of life in America: a
trip to the post office, the library, a Laundromat, a bank. They almost always
do well once acclimated, and better than other immigrants elsewhere, Mitchell
said.

"Everybody needs a place to land," he said. "And once they land, they tend to do
quite well."

Of the 50 refugees expected to arrive in Lowell before the end of the year, 20
are projected to come from the Democratic Republic of Congo, which has suffered
widespread conflict and displacement in recent years. Another 16 may come from
Iraq, and 14 from Somalia, according to data from the state Office for Regufees
and Immigrants.

About two-thirds of those are under age 18.

Statewide, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Iraq and Somalia lead the list of
native countries for refugees, with Iraqis the dominant group. It may take years
for refugees from countries shaken by civil battles, such as Syria and Ukraine,
to come to the United States, Mitchell said.

The United States has an annual cap of 70,000 refugees, not nearly enough to
house refugees from across the world, he said. Last year alone, Syria's civil
war created an estimated 2.5 million refugees, according to reports.

Those coming to the United States receive extensive and multiple rounds of
health screenings, according to Jennifer Cochran, director of the Refugee and
Immigrant Health Program at the state Department of Public Health.

Addressing concerns about Ebola, which is expected to spread much farther before
being brought under control, Cochran said no refugees are currently being
processed out of west Africa.

Worries about other contagious diseases far outweigh Ebola anyway, Cochran said.

"People are way more worried about chickenpox at this point," she said.

Follow Grant Welker on Twitter and Tout @SunGrantWelker.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mitchell Sun staff photos can be ordered by visiting our SmugMug site.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              423 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 27, 2014 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Refugee Flow to Industrialized Nations Is Poised for a 20-Year High

BYLINE: By NICK CUMMING-BRUCE

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 489 words


GENEVA -- Conflict and instability in the Middle East and parts of Africa look
set to push the number of people seeking asylum in industrialized countries to
the highest level in 20 years in 2014, the United Nations refugee agency said
Friday, warning that the flow of refugees was increasing the strain on already
overstretched humanitarian aid budgets.

More than 330,700 people applied for asylum in a group of 44 countries in
Europe, North America and parts of the Asia-Pacific region in the first half of
the year, the refugee agency reported, almost a quarter more than in the last
half of 2013.

From the experience of past years, which saw more people seeking asylum in the
second half of the year, it predicts that the number of people seeking refuge in
these countries will reach more than 700,000 by the end of the year, the highest
level since the Balkan wars of the 1990s.

The fast-rising number of asylum seekers adds to the alarm expressed by
international aid agencies struggling to cope with numbers of people displaced
by conflict that have reached the highest level since the end of World War II
and soaring numbers of migrants risking their lives to reach the richer
countries of Europe and North America.

''The international community needs to prepare their populations for the reality
that in the absence of solutions to conflict, more and more people are going to
need refuge and care in the coming months and years,'' António Guterres, the
United Nations high commissioner for refugees, warned in a statement. He added:
''Unfortunately, it is not clear that the resources and the access to asylum
will be available to help them.''

The biggest group of asylum seekers in recent years came from Afghanistan,
refugee agency spokesman Adrian Edwards said, but in 2014 the largest number are
Syrians fleeing more than three years of civil war.

Some 48,400 Syrians sought asylum in the first half of the year, a tiny number
compared with the more than three million Syrian refugees sheltering in
neighboring countries but still more than double the number applying in the same
period of last year.

The other main sources of asylum seekers were Iraq, Afghanistan and Eritrea,
together producing close to 60,000 applicants, the refugee agency reported.

More than two-thirds of asylum seekers in the first half of the year sought
entry to six countries, including four Western European countries, Turkey and
the United States.

Some 52,800 asylum seekers applied to get into the United States, more than
one-third of them from Mexico and Central America escaping drug cartel and
organized crime violence, although China, as in previous years, was the main
country of origin.

Germany, Sweden and France were among the most sought-after destinations,
particularly by Syrians, while Italy, the destination of thousands of migrants
smuggled across the Mediterranean from North Africa, saw rising asylum claims
from West African countries.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/27/world/europe/refugee
-flow-to-industrialized-nations-is-poised-for-a-20-year-high.html

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company

                              424 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 27, 2014 Saturday

Ellison, Cicilline Applaud White House Extension of Temporary Status for
Liberian Refugees

LENGTH: 434  words

DATELINE: Washington


Office of the House of Representative Keith Ellison, U.S Government has issued
the following news release:

Representatives Keith Ellison (D-MN) and David N. Cicilline (D-RI) today
welcomed President Obama's decision to extend Deferred Enforced Departure (DED)
for Liberians living legally in the United States by 2 years. The current DED
protection was set to expire on September 30, 2014, which could have sent
thousands of Liberian refugees back to their home country where 3,200 Ebola
virus cases have been reported, according to the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC).Letter to Pres re Liberian DED.pdf

"America's Liberian communities make tremendous contributions to our nation. We
applaud President Obama's decision to extend Deferred Enforced Departure status
for these members of our communities, especially at a time when the Ebola crisis
is threatening the health and safety of Liberians and other West African
nations. Liberians should not be forced to leave their jobs, creating hardships
for themselves, their families and the employers who rely on them," said Ellison
and Cicilline. "We will continue working with President Obama and our colleagues
in Congress to give Liberian refugees who are playing by the rules a fair shot
at permanent residency."

Earlier this week, the lawmakers sent a letter to President Obama calling for
the extension of DED status and highlighting the ongoing threat posed by the
Ebola virus. In the letter the lawmakers wrote: "The current Ebola crisis has
greatly weakened the country's infrastructure and stability, and it would be
imprudent to send individuals into this environment and to risk exposing them to
this deadly disease." According to the CDC, if the Ebola virus is not contained
it could potentially infect 1.4 million people in West Africa by the end of
January 2015.

During the early 1990s thousands of Liberians fled a brutal civil war seeking
refuge in the United States. Many of these refugees have raised children in
American and become integral members of their local communities, contributing to
the local economy and culture. Ellison and Cicilline have long championed
efforts to prevent the deportation of Liberians living legally in the U.S.
Ellison introduced the Liberian Refugee Immigration Fairness Act that would
allow Liberians who were brought to the United States legally under temporary
protection status classification to apply for permanent residency. Cicilline is
an original cosponsor of this bill.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              425 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                       Qatar News Agency (QNA) (English)

                           September 26, 2014 Friday

UN: Refugee Numbers Jump 24 per cent in Industrialized Countries

LENGTH: 302  words


Geneva, September 26 (QNA) - The number of people who sought asylum in
industrialized countries in the first half of the year rose 24 per cent compared
to the same period last year, mainly because of the conflict in Syria, the UN
refugee agency said Friday.



At the current rate, industrialized nations in North America, Europe and the
Asia-Pacific region can expect to see the highest number of asylum claims in 20
years, the office of the UN high commissioner for refugees (UNHCR) said in
Geneva, dpa reported.

"The international community needs to prepare their populations for the reality
that in the absence of solutions to conflict, more and more people are going to
need refuge and care in the coming months and years," High Commissioner Antonio
Guterres said.

Syrians accounted for 15 per cent of asylum seekers. Although many went to
northern and western Europe, the number of Syrians who have fled to neighbouring
countries is much larger.

Afghans, Iraqis and Eritreans also accounted for large numbers of asylum seekers
between January and June.

Germany received the largest share of refugees of the 44 destination countries
covered by the report, followed by the United States, France, Sweden and Turkey.


Italy, Britain, Netherlands, Switzerland and Austria made up the rest of this
top 10 list.

Southern Europe saw a major increase in arrivals, as migrants from various
African countries crossed the sea to Italy, while thousands of Iraqis fled to
Turkey.

In the US, Chinese asylum seekers remained the largest group, but there was a
marked increase in people from Mexico and other Central American countries who
fled organized crime and violence, UNHCR said.

In Asia, asylum claims went up by more than a third in Japan and doubled in
South Korea, but overall numbers remained far below Western countries.(QNA)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1281


                        Copyright 2014 Qatar News Agency
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              426 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            September 8, 2014 Monday

Editorial calls for humane repatriation of Somali refugees from Kenya

LENGTH: 316 words


Text of entitled "All returning refugees deserve consideration" published by
Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 8 September

The envisaged voluntary repatriation of Somali refugees, expected to start next
month, raises important human rights issues and calls for the agencies involved
to carry it out humanely.

Considering that Al-Shabab still poses a major peace and security threat in
Somalia, it is important to ensure that those who choose to return home are not
thrust into conflict.

It is also important to ensure that the returning refugees are helped to
re-integrate into their societies after so many years of living in camps outside
their home countries.

Besides making refugees' return smooth and humane, there is also a need to
address the causes of the conflict that sparked the exodus in the first place.

The military campaign waged by the United States of America and the United
Nations through Amisom [African Union Mission in Somalia] is commendable, but
there is still the challenge of ensuring that terrorist groups do not recruit
the returnees into their ranks because this would make the security problem in
Somalia and neighbouring countries even more complicated.

In this regard, the relevant agencies would do well to ensure that the returning
population is not susceptible to Al-Shabab indoctrination.

The returnees should be taught to champion peace and become ambassadors for
nation-building to ensure that they become agents of positive change in their
localities and even nationally.

In the past, the repatriation has been the subject of debate, with humanitarian
organizations raising objections. It is important to ensure that the pressing
issues that sparked these differences are addressed to ensure that the process
enjoys broad support even in the localities where the refugees will be settled.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 8 Sep 14

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              427 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           August 20, 2014 Wednesday

Famine Looms: United States Announces Food Aid for South Sudan

LENGTH: 535  words


Washington, D.C.: Bread for the World has issued the following news release:

There has been a lot of bad news in the world lately.  Though it is not always
reported, many of the grimmest stories also involve hunger.

The innocent in Iraq evade death on mountaintops where the lucky find food aid
dropped from the sky. Elsewhere in the Middle East, families huddle together in
refugee camps and pray for peace. Children who flee poverty and violence in
Central America arrive at our southern border hungry and traumatized. And in
South Sudan, where the atrocities of civil conflict drive families from their
homes, hunger is about to get worse.

Famine - a human-made obscenity - looms over the landlocked country of South
Sudan in northeastern Africa. The world's newest country, South Sudan gained its
independence from Sudan in 2011 but internal conflict has led to widespread
food-insecurity. The United Nations is already struggling to feed an estimated
100,000 civilians. Sixteen-year old Nyiel Kutch, her mother, and five siblings
made it to a Ugandan refugee camp in December of last year. She told The
Guardian, "The place here is good, but the food is not enough for us."

A hunger crisis becomes famine when four out of every 10,000 children die every
day. Experts predict that South Sudan will qualify as early as December.
Samantha Power, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, told Reuters that
50,000 children under age five were at risk of dying of malnutrition in the
coming months.

Yesterday, the United States announced it will send $180 million in emergency
food aid to address the crisis. The funds will be distributed from the U.S.
Agency for International Development (USAID) and the Bill Emerson Humanitarian
Trust. The trust is a food reserve set aside and administered by the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA) to respond to unexpected food crises in
developing countries.

Your advocacy efforts in the past are helping to feed hungry people in South
Sudan today. Bread for the World was instrumental in the expansion and
restructuring of the Bill Emerson Humanitarian Trust as part of the
organization's 1998 Offering of Letters campaign, Africa: Seeds of Hope.
Advocacy work started even earlier - 1977 and 1978 - when Bread activists began
lobbying their members of Congress to establish the legislation.

In front of us is yet another opportunity that will pay dividends in the future.
Changes in U.S. food aid policy can build resilience against future
catastrophes. Food aid that takes into account the quality of food and not just
quantity can stem the tide of needless deaths from malnutrition. The future of
food aid is the Food for Peace Reform Act (S. 2421).

We can unlock food aid from archaic policy. By increasing program efficiency,
flexibility, and improving the nutritional value of food aid, we can help 9
million more people - people like 16-year Nyiel Kutch - who deserve a future
free of hunger.

While the news today may be overwhelming, as people of faith called to end
hunger and love our neighbors. We must rise to the challenge and act for
tomorrow. Urge your senators to cosponsor the Food for Peace Reform Act.

For more information please visit: http://www.bread.org

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              428 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                             July 31, 2014 Thursday

Refugee All Stars sing to help people heal

BYLINE: Reuters in Gydnia, Poland

LENGTH: 457  words


It's a long way from the refugee camps of Africa to Poland's balmy Baltic coast,
but for Sierra Leone's Refugee All Stars, the message is still the same.

"We want to make those people who went through horrible things forget about
their problems and make them smile and laugh," says band leader Ruben Koroma.

Appearing at Poland's Globaltica World Cultures Festival last weekend, they
delivered a typically vibrant, energetic and uplifting show.

The people of Gdynia - a Nordic city where metal and hard rock tend to be the
music of choice - danced and sang to the funky African grooves, traditional
Sierra Leonean beats, and old school reggae mixed with a flavor of New Orleans.

The All Stars are celebrating 10 years since the making of their first album
Living Like a Refugee. Their fourth and latest album, Libation, is an offering
for "the blessings that our music has brought us".

It has been a remarkable journey.

The band was formed in a Guinean refugee camp during Sierra Leone's 1991-2002
civil war. Living Like a Refugee was recorded in tin-roofed shacks in a Freetown
shantytown - a process depicted in a 2005 documentary film directed by Zach
Niles and Banker White.

"The UN refugee agency helped us make our first album and there was also a
Canadian NGO called CECI, donating speakers, mixers, a generator, microphones
and two guitars to help us become more audible," Koroma said.

That set them on the path to worldwide exposure.

Producer Steve Berlin of Los Lobos worked with them for their second album Rise
& Shine, released in 2010. Keyboardist Victor Axelrod, aka Ticklah, who
previously worked with stars such as Amy Winehouse, produced their third album
Radio Salone, released in 2012.

But the war - which claimed 70,000 casualties and made 2.6 million people
refugees - left a mark on Koroma's soul.

With his socially conscious lyrics, also inspired by his father and by the late
Bob Marley, Koroma hopes that his music can help uplift people and detraumatize
them.

"The situation in Sierra Leone is very difficult. While the album gave me
confidence to leave the refugee camps, many people are still there, living in
bad conditions," he said.

In 2008, the Refugee All Stars returned to Guinea, where many Sierra Leoneans
are still living in refugee camps, to perform and to try to "inspire the young
to move on with their lives, away from the refugee camps".

Koroma's message is one of peace.

"We want peace," he sang out to the audience at Globaltica.

The concert was part of a tour taking the band to Glasgow in Scotland and
Waterford in Ireland before moving on to Canada and the United States through
September.

Festival art director Piotr Pucylo said the Refugee All Stars had been on top of
his wish list.

(China Daily 07/31/2014 page10)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              429 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           The Mercury (South Africa)

                              July 25, 2014 Friday
                                   E1 Edition

Policy on black refugeesneeds work

BYLINE:  Mandisi Majavu

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 663 words


Many South Africans see black |immigrants as a threat to their privileges.
African immigrants from a refugee background, in particular, are viewed as a
social burden. The xenophobic attitudes are not unique to this country.

Historically, black African refugees received little help from the UN High
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). For instance, during a volatile period in
Africa, the 1960s and 1970s, many refugees were left to fend for themselves. In
contrast to the UNHCR's approach to post-war European refugee schemes, overseas
resettlement was not offered to Africans. This was partly due to Western
conceptualisation of refugees as white and seeking refuge from Nazi Germany.

It is worth noting, however, that Ugandan Asians who were expelled by Idi Amin
in the 1970s were treated differently. Ugandan Asians are the only African
refugees that the West and the UNHCR prioritised for overseas resettlement. This
is despite the fact that the first expulsion in Uganda was not that of about 70
000 Asians, but of the 50 000 Jaluos in 1970, according to Mahmood Mamdani,
Ugandan author, academic and political commentator.

Researchers working in the field point out that there were about ' 000 black
African refugees in Uganda from other African countries when the UNHCR resettled
Ugandan Asians overseas. However, overseas resettlement was not offered to these
black Africans.

It was not until white people in the former Yugoslavia were victims of armed
conflict and indiscriminate violence that the West made changes. European states
implemented a policy of "temporary protection", which effectively suspended
normal asylum procedures.

Integration challenge

Apart from individuals arriving from Rwanda after the 1994 genocide, a policy of
"temporary protection" has never been extended to any other African refugees.

Although the UNHCR has, since 1980, resettled black African refugees in Western
Europe and North America, the organisation's strategic direction from the
mid-1980s has been to encourage refugee repatriation instead of overseas
|resettlement. States within the |EU introduced restrictive asylum-seeker
policies aimed at keeping refugees from the Third World out of Europe. Western
countries generally view black African refugees as an "integration challenge".

The outcome is that 80 percent of the world's refugees are hosted by developing
countries like South Africa. Unlike in Western Europe where racism is expressed
via policies and laws, poor black South Africans express their xenophobia
through violence.

An argument that perpetuates xenophobia is the idea that black immigrants
threaten and undermine "black South Africanness". This argument partly reveals
the extent to which people internalise colonial myths. Pan-Africanists point out
that the systems that have historically structured the existence and survival of
Africans are largely shaped by global forces that go beyond socially constructed
borders.

The idea that Africa is naturally divided into countries is a colonial illusion.
According to Aviva Chomsky, daughter of famous American intellectual Noam
Chomsky, the idea that people should be divided by citizenship or into different
political categories with differential rights exists to maintain islands of
prosperity and privilege.

Within the African context, South Africa is an island of prosperity and
privilege. After all, South Africa is the most technologically advanced country
on the continent and, until recently, had the biggest economy in Africa.

Some have called for a national strategy to prevent violence against black
immigrants, while academics and the media make pronouncements about the problem
and solutions. Sociologists call this process a "moral panic".

The time has come to move beyond this process and do something about rampant
xenophobia.

l Majavu is the book reviews editor of Interface: A Journal For and About Social
Movements. This article also appears on the South African Civil Society
Information Service website.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NM


                Copyright 2014 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              430 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           Greeley Tribune (Colorado)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             May 29, 2014 Thursday

Global Refugee Center helps refugees navigate health care in America

BYLINE: Casey Kelly, Greeley Tribune, Colo.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 693 words


May 29--When Asad Abdi talks about the differences between health care here in
America compared to in his home country of Ethiopia, he says the main thing is
knowing what to expect.

"The health care system (here) is way different than where we come from," he
said.

Abdi is a co-founder at the Global Refugee Center, 1424 13th Ave., in Greeley, a
nonprofit that opened in 2008 to offer assistance to the city's refugee and
immigrant population in transitioning to life in the United States.

To illustrate the frustration he sees from some of the center's clients, Abdi
told the story of one of the center's refugee clients who worked at the JBS USA
meatpacking plant. He had recently started working at the plant and hadn't yet
been there the six months required to begin getting health benefits.

When the man became sick and needed to call an ambulance, Abdi said he was
shocked when he discovered the bill to transport him two miles to the hospital
would cost him more than $2,000.

"When you go in, you don't know how much to expect. That's the biggest confusion
for people," Abdi said. "In Africa, when you get in you will know what to
expect. You know how much you will pay. I mean, for $2,000 I can go to Europe
and stay in a good hotel and come back and still have some money left. So, it's
very expensive."

The center helps refugees navigate issues such as health care, education,
language, finance and culture in order to help them become self-sufficient.

"It's kind of a one-stop shop for refugees," Abdi said.

Abdi said the center doesn't have an official count of how many refugees are
living in Greeley, but said most refugees come here from Somalia. He said the
center sees people from more than 40 different countries, all with their own
ways of providing health care.

"In Kenya you have a different system. In Sudan you have a different system --
West Africa, East Africa, Asia," Abdi said. "It's a challenge. There is a
language barrier. There is a cultural barrier. We have around 20 different
languages here."

Case managers at the clinic meet with refugees to find out what kind of services
they need, assist them in filling out forms they may need to get assistance and
help put them in touch with the other agencies that can offer them help.

The center works closely with other agencies such as the United Way of Weld
County, Sunrise Community Health, Right to Read and the University of Northern
Colorado to help meet the needs of the people it's trying to help.

Each year, the center works with the Weld County Department of Public Health and
Environment, North Colorado Family Medicine and the University of Northern
Colorado Student Nurses Association for its annual health fair. Last November,
more than 198 refugees and immigrants came to the center for eye tests, blood
glucose checks, vaccinations, food education, doctor consultations and insurance
education.

Sunrise Community Health, a health clinic opened in 1973 to address the health
needs of the migrant population, also operates a mobile outreach van that it
takes to the center once a month. Each month, Sunrise helps refugees at the
center with basic health screenings and works to set them up with appointments
at their clinic, where they can start to build a relationship with a primary
care doctor.

"It takes a while to build that relationship, for them to get to know us and
trust us enough to come in and see us," said Mary Jo Vasquez, outreach
coordinator with Sunrise Community Health.

The mobile outreach unit on average serves about 15 people each month at the
center, Vasquez said. She said one of the biggest challenges to providing care
to the refugee population is the language barrier.

"When I started three years ago, most people we saw spoke the same dialect," she
said. "Now, we can see lots of different tribes with completely different
dialects. Especially when it comes to health care, we want to be clear about
what we're doing."

"It's kind of a one-stop shop for refugees.

Asad Abdi

Global Refugee Center co-founder

___ (c)2014 the Greeley Tribune (Greeley, Colo.) Visit the Greeley Tribune
(Greeley, Colo.) at www.greeleytribune.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140529-GY-Global-Refugee-Center-helps-refugees
-navigate-health-care-in-America-0529-20140529

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GY


                         Copyright 2014 Greeley Tribune

                              431 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             April 29, 2014 Tuesday
                                Atlantic Edition

SOMALIA;
Stowaway boy's refugee mom seeks reunion

BYLINE: ELIAS MESERET, Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 583 words

DATELINE: SHEDDER REFUGEE CAMP, ETHIOPIA


The Somali woman lives in a stick hut covered with ragged blankets in this dusty
refugee camp. It was here that her 15-year-old son wanted to travel as a
stowaway on a plane from California.

Ubah Mohammed Abdule hasn't seen her son - who was hospitalized in Hawaii after
landing there last week in the wheel well of a jetliner - for eight years.

Clutching her black-and-white head covering, she wept Sunday as she stood before
the flimsy shelter holding her meagre possessions and speaking about her son,
Yahya Abdi.

She was alarmed, she said, by the dangerous journey the teenager undertook.
Those who stow away in wheel wells of airplanes have little chance of surviving,
and many who attempt it are Africans desperate for a better life in Europe or
America.

Yahya Abdi had been unhappy in California and desperately missed his mother,
according to those who know his family. So on April 20, Abdi hopped a fence at
San Jose International Airport and climbed into the wheel well of a jetliner. It
was bound for Hawaii, the opposite direction of Ethiopia. Somehow he survived
the sub-zero temperatures and lack of oxygen. He has not spoken publicly about
the ordeal.

"I knew he was an intelligent boy who has strong affections for me. I also knew
he always wanted to see me, but I know his father won't let them contact me at
all," Ms. Abdule told an Associated Press reporter in this remote camp in
eastern Ethiopia.

The boy's father, Abdulahi Yusuf, had lied to their three children, Ms. Abdule
said, telling them that she was dead.

"He first took the children away from me to Sudan. Then he came back to Somalia
and demanded my consent for him to take the children to the U.S. if I wanted a
formal divorce. I was not okay with that and said no," Ms. Abdule said through
tears. "Finally, he took all three of my children to the U.S. without my
knowledge."

Mr. Yusuf said in a statement Sunday issued through a family spokesman in
California that his son was "struggling adjusting to life" in America.

"Our situation was aggravated by our displacement in Africa for many years after
fleeing our home country of Somalia because of war conditions. As a result, my
son was not able to receive any formal education before we immigrated to the
United States," the statement said.

Shedder Refugee Camp, in far eastern Ethiopia near the border with Somalia, is
home to some 10,300 Somalis who fled their country because of Islamic militant
violence. Most Somalis here are from minority groups who face persecution.

Ms. Abdule, 33, arrived in the camp in early 2010, after fleeing heavy fighting
in the Somali capital, Mogadishu. She earns a small income selling vegetables in
the camp market.

Mother and son have had no contact since he moved to the U.S. in 2006. Ms.
Abdule said she wants to leave the camp and reunite with her children and has
asked the Ethiopian government and the UN refugee agency to help her do so.

The teen's father said he plans to fly to Hawaii soon to reunite with him and is
"excited to bring him back home to his family in California." The family was
"deeply concerned" when the boy went missing and was relieved to hear he was
safe, Mr. Yusuf said.

Abdule may yet be able to reunite with her children in the U.S., UN officials
said.

She has passed her first interview with the UN refugee agency's list of those
who might qualify to immigrate to America, said a legal protection officer at
the refugee camp. If she passes the next phase, he said, she could move to the
U.S. in less than a year.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2014 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              432 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                             April 28, 2014 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Stowaway teenager was 'trying to find mum'

BYLINE: Los Angeles

SECTION: A; Pg. A008

LENGTH: 350  words


Stowaway teenager was 'trying to find mum' Los Angeles The mother of a
15-year-old California teenager who stowed away in the wheel well of a
Hawaii-bound airliner told Voice of America radio that her son had recently
learnt that she was alive after being told by his father she had died.

Speaking from a refugee camp in eastern Ethiopia, Ubah Mohamed Abdullahi told
Voice of America that she believed her son risked his life trying to reach her.

"I know he was looking for me, and I am requesting the US government to help me
reunite with my kids," she told the international radio station. The boy's
parents are divorced and he lives with his father, Abdilahi Yusuf Abdi, a taxi
driver in Santa Clara.

The slight teenager, identified to Voice of America by his father as Yahya Abdi,
appears to have spent up to six hours undetected at the San Jose International
Airport last Sunday before sneaking inside the wheel well of a Maui-bound jet,
according to a federal law enforcement official.

The boy, first seen on a security camera video, would not appear again until
later Sunday morning, when airline workers spotted him 3800 kilometres to the
west, walking on the tarmac at Kahului Airport.

Authorities say the boy survived a perilous, five-hour odyssey, enduring frigid
temperatures and oxygen deprivation as he travelled over the Pacific Ocean in
the jet's wheel well.

The incident prompted authorities to question both how the teen so easily gained
access to the jumbo jet and how he survived.

When asked why the teen may have taken the journey, his father said: "He did not
receive education when he was in Africa. Since we came here he had learning
challenges at school. He was not good at math and science and I think he had a
lot of education problems bothering him."

Ms Abdullahi said she hadn't heard from her children since 2006.

She said she was sure her son was trying to find her. "I cried, felt badly and
many people in the refugee camp came to me to give me support," she said after
learning the news of his odyssey. She said her dream was to live with her
children in the United States. MCT

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


       Copyright 2014 The Federal Capital Press of Australia PTY Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              433 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Zealand Herald

                            April 26, 2014 Saturday

Mother of stowaway identified as refugee

SECTION: NEWS; World

LENGTH: 131 words


SAN JOSE, California (AP) A United Nations official says the mother of a
California teenager who stowed away on a flight to Hawaii is living in a refugee
camp in Ethiopia.

Ubah Mohammed Abdule, 33, is living at the Sheder Refugee Camp in Ethiopia, said
the official from the UN High Commissioner for Refugees office on Friday.
According to the UN, the camp houses about 10,200 displaced Somalis.

The official was not authorized to speak and asked to remain unnamed.

The boy"s father told Voice of America his son was always talking about going
back to Africa.

Somalia has been plagued with internal conflict, drought and violence for
decades. Today, more than 1 million Somali refugees are living in neighboring
Kenya, Ethiopia and Yemen.

___

Elias Meseret contributed from Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 The New Zealand Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

                              434 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                            The Inquirer (Monrovia)

                                 March 14, 2014

Japan, USA Donate U.S.$ 2.5 Million to Ivorian Refugees in Liberia

LENGTH: 350 words


The governments of the United States of America and Japan have contributed a
total of US$ 2 5 million towards the Ivorian refugee programme amid the need for
more funding as the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR)
focuses on the voluntary repatriation of thousands of Ivorian refugees remaining
in Liberia. The US government donated more than US$ 342 million to various UNHCR
operations around the world, including US$ 1 million to the Ivorian refugee
operation in Liberia, while the Government of Japan donated US$ 66.8 million to
UNHCR for humanitarian assistance in African countries, including US$15million
for protection and assistance to Ivorian refugees in Liberia "UNHCR is very
grateful to the governments of USA and Japan for this very timely assistance,"
said Representative Khassim Diagne, expressing gratitude to all donors for
supporting UNHCR's humanitarian endeavours. The Representative, however, added
that UNHCR Liberia overall budgetary requirements for 2014 are currently put at
more than US$ 34 million. "We still appeal for more assistance from donors to
cover the gap of unmet needs," he said.

More than 46,000 Ivorian refugees remain in Liberia three years after
postelection violence forced about 220,000 Ivorians to cross over to seek refuge
in Liberia following a disputed presidential run-off election in late 2010.

In 2014, the UN agency encourages refugees to engage in livelihood activities
that will make them more self-reliant while focusing on voluntary repatriation.
So far this year, in collaboration with the Liberia Refugee Repatriation and
Resettlement Commission (LRRRC) and other partners, some 6,000 Ivorian refugees
have been assisted to return home mainly from camps and communities in Nimba and
Grand Gedeh counties.

Meanwhile, Representative Diagne on 11 March briefed Minister of Foreign Affairs
Augustine Kpehe Ngafuan on UNHCR's activities, including the imminent closure of
the Solo Refugee Camp in Grand Gedeh County. The Representative thanked the
Government and people of Liberia for their continued hospitality to Ivorian
refugees.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              435 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                Vanguard (Lagos)

                                 March 12, 2014

Boko Haram - U.S. Based Group Presses UN for U.S.$30 Million Compensation for
Victims

BYLINE: Caleb Ayansina

LENGTH: 337 words


A Civil Rights Group based in United States of America, yesterday, disclosed
that it had requested from the United Nations, the refund of the $30 millions
used by the Nigerian Government to renovate its building in Abuja, to be used as
compensation for the victims of Boko Haram.

The Jubilee Campaign Human Rights Group, Washington DC, said it felt that it
would be unfair to the victims of Boko Haram in Nigeria, and the country herself
to pay for the renovation of the UN building, when the victims were left
un-catered for by the country due to lack of resources.

The Representative of the group, Bar. Emmanuel Ogebe, who revealed this during a
briefing with newsmen in Abuja, on the plight of the victims and the
humanitarian group, added that they had written a letter to the United Nations,
through its Secretary General, Ban Ki-moon.

According to him, the letter dated 6 March, 2014 seeks among other things the
refund of the money to be used for compensation of the Boko Haram victims in the
country.

Ogebe, who decried the inability of the Federal Government of Nigeria to design
a clear cut road map or humanitarian strategies to take care of the victims of
the attacks, disclosed that about six millions people had been affected since
the killings started in 2009.

According to him, it was so unfortunate that Nigeria has now become a net
exporter of refugees to other African countries.

Therefore, it is important, he said, that the federal government should urgently
look into the repatriation of Nigerian refugees, which according to him is
getting close to 12, 000 in Cameroon with official registration of just 2000 by
the Cameroonian government.

Also speaking, the Representative of Voice of Christian Martyrs, a humanitarian
group based in Lagos, Pastor Bosun Emmanuel said the situation whereby the
victims were left with their predicaments with little or nothing as aids is
unheard-off.

He maintained that "it has come to a point that we have to tell the world that
Nigeria is on a verge of humanitarian disaster."

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              436 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          February 26, 2014 Wednesday

Washington: State Department Contributes an Initial $226 Million to the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees for 2014

LENGTH: 398  words

DATELINE: Washington


US Mission to UN in Geneva, The Government of USA has issued the following news
release:

The United States is pleased to announce an initial contribution of $226 million
toward the 2014 operations of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
(UNHCR). This $226 million contribution includes $119.7 million for sub-Saharan
Africa, which includes contributions to the crises in South Sudan and the
Central African Republic previously announced earlier this year. Additional
contributions will be forthcoming over the course of the year.

This year's initial contribution, funded through the State Department's Bureau
of Population, Refugees, and Migration, will support UNHCR efforts worldwide.
This funding includes support for refugees returning to countries such as
Afghanistan and the Democratic Republic of Congo; local integration and
resettlement; and protection and life-saving assistance. U.S. funding supports
the provision of water, shelter, food, healthcare, and education to refugees,
internally displaced persons, and other persons under UNHCR's care and
protection in countries such as Iraq, Yemen, Pakistan, Colombia, South Sudan,
and Kenya. The contribution will support UNHCR's program activities in the areas
listed below:
Africa  $ 119.7 million
Middle East  $ 35.1 million
Asia and Pacific  $ 46.5 million
Operational Reserve including Emergency Response activities  $ 4.5 million
Global Operations  $ 6.2 million
Headquarters  $ 4.0 million
Europe  $ 6.2 million
Western Hemisphere  $ 3.8 million
TOTAL  $ 226 million


This $226 million for UNHCR does not reflect the $104.7 million contribution to
UNHCR for the 2014 Syria Humanitarian Assistance Response Plan (SHARP) and the
2014 Syria Regional Response Plan (RRP) that was announced at the Second
International Pledging Conference for Syria in January 2014.

In FY 2013, the United States contributed more than $1 billion to UNHCR to
support ongoing and emergency programs around the world, including more than
$370 million in response to humanitarian needs related to the crisis in Syria.
The U.S. government provided a total of more than $1.3 billion in humanitarian
assistance for Syria in FY 2013.

We salute the important work of UNHCR, its many NGO partners, and refugee
-hosting countries in providing protection to displaced populations around the
world.


For more information please visit: http://geneva.usmission.gov

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              437 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           Greeley Tribune (Colorado)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           January 23, 2014 Thursday

Greeley schools, community offer many programs for refugees but more needed

BYLINE: Sherrie Peif, Greeley Tribune, Colo.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 938 words


Jan. 23--In the United States, and more specifically Greeley, refugees and their
plights are not understood by many.

Stow Witwer, and several others in the Greeley community, did everything they
could to make people understand at the Refugee Collaboration Forum on Tuesday.

"We are all ancestors of people who came here from another place," said Witwer,
a Greeley attorney, to open a forum held quarterly to find ways the community
can collaborate on making the transition for refugees into Greeley smoother. "We
can all trace our backgrounds, except for very, very few of us, from land and
countries across the world."

So why is it refugees, who come to Greeley mostly from east Africa, southeast
Asia and central America, are so misunderstood?

"They are newest members of our community," said Witwer to a crowd of several
dozen who had gathered to hear what the community is doing to help the
fast-growing population of residents in Greeley.

Witwer also wanted to show people that today's refugees are not much different
than our own grandparents and great-grandparents.

"Many are from countries quite different from ours, whether that is climate,
government, cultures, religion or history," he said. "But each have their own
story."

The forum focused on what Greeley-Evans School District 6 is doing to help the
children, who in some cases have no education and can't read or write even in
their own language.

Joe Wisemann-Horther of the Colorado Refugees Services Program, said the U.S.
has a long legacy of providing sanctuary to refugees. The newest group just
looks different than the European descendants of the past.

Last year, there were 15.4 million refugees worldwide. The U.S. took in just
under 70,000 of those, more than any other country, but still only a fraction of
the population.

Greeley is what is known as a secondary migration area, where refugees who were
originally placed elsewhere have relocated because of the opportunity for
employment here. JBS Swift employs many of the refugees in Greeley.

"Many choose to come to Greeley," Wisemann-Horther said. "I think they benefit
from that and Greeley benefits from that."

Marte Samuelstuen, Jessica Cooney and Laura DeGroote, who work exclusively with
refugee students at Greeley's three traditional high schools, outlined programs
such as Newcomers, Advancement Via Individual Determination, El Teatro, and
several others that help students.

"It has been fabulous to watch some of our students who come with limited
academic experiences rise up and succeed," DeGroote said. "It is such a
privilege to work with these students who are captivated and want to learn."

Three refugee graduates of the district also spoke to the crowd and explained
how hard it was for them when they first arrived and what it meant to them to
have teachers like Cooney and DeGroote.

Sadiyo Adan, who came to Greeley at 15 from Somalia, told the crowd how she
would go home at night and read the dictionary to improve her English skills.
Today, she is studying nursing at Aims Community College.

Khai Tha Zin OO didn't even understand a simple "hi" when she arrived at 14 from
Thailand, but graduated from West in 2013 with a 3.9 grade point average and now
is a freshman at the University of Northern Colorado and working four jobs. And
Shaban Mohamed was 17 when he moved to the U.S. from Kenya and is now in
college.

"Teachers rarely get to say they admire a student," Cooney said. "But this young
man I admire. When he got here he didn't even know how to hold a pair of
scissors. To think he went from that to college. That is not just drive, but
intelligence."

Mohamed is now studying to be a teacher at UNC and working two jobs. He wants to
return to Kenya some day.

"I want to go back and help people in Kenya learn English," he said.

The stories never end. The forum also included about 30 minutes of round table
discussions with current students in the district.

One girl, a junior at Greeley Central High School, told her table how her
parents and brothers came from Africa before her and her sister. The girls
remained in a refugee camp with their grandparents until they could leave
safely.

Another girl explained how her family fled Eritrea in East Africa quickly
without her brother -- who had been taken from the family and forced to be a
soldier -- because they were going to throw her mother in jail and kill her
father if they didn't leave.

She is hoping to reunite with that brother, who is now in Israel.

Cooney said the students' English skills are strong because of the intensive
English Language Acquisition classes they get during the day. It is what
teachers focus on most with the students to get them caught up.

Wisemann-Horther closed the forum by asking the crowd to embrace refugees and
educate others in Greeley about them.

"These are young people who take the risk to tell the narrative of their
journey," Wisemann-Horther said. "They are brave to continue to talk about that
to people who have a hard time understanding why they don't understand (our
culture and way of life)."

Wisemann-Horther said the list of new things refugees have to understand is
huge. For instance, a bed, which one boy said was too soft compared to what he
was accustomed to. So he slept on the floor instead.

"Talk to everybody who wasn't here, and let them know what a fantastic job
District 6 is doing for these students," he said. "Their narrative can't be
about negativity, but about a community that collaborates and gets things done."

___ (c)2014 the Greeley Tribune (Greeley, Colo.) Visit the Greeley Tribune
(Greeley, Colo.) at www.greeleytribune.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140123-GY-Greeley-schools-community-offer-many-programs-for-refugees
-but-more-needed-0123-20140123

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GY


                         Copyright 2014 Greeley Tribune

                              438 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                             January 6, 2014 Monday
                                 METRO EDITION

ON BUSINESS

BYLINE: NEAL ST. ANTHONY; STAFF WRITER, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 918 words



HIGHLIGHT: From refugee to restaurateur // Shegitu Kebede, an orphaned refugee
from Ethiopia, has lived the American immigrant's dream. Now she's going back to
Africa to help others follow in her footsteps.


Shegitu Kebede is one of those hardworking immigrant entrepreneurs who's
probably never going to get rich. But she believes she's blessed. And she's
enriched herself and others with her heart and volunteer work. She would say
that may be the greatest wealth.

"I'm eating and I support myself," said Kebede, an orphan and refugee from
war-torn Ethiopia. "I was picked from a refugee camp [in 1989] and assigned to
go to America. I was blessed. I have an apartment. My son works with me and my
daughter is in college in California. I have many friends."

This month, Kebede returns to Ethiopia at the invitation of the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees to help build a school in a refugee camp where
children and women bound for America can start learning English and a trade.

Since coming to America, Kebede, 45, has worked as a hotel clerk, run an
office-cleaning business that trained other immigrant women and, for the last
several years, has been co-owner and manager of Flamingo Restaurant in the
Hamline-University neighborhood of St. Paul.

She also is a longtime volunteer and board member of the International Institute
of Minnesota (www.iimn.org), which aids immigrants and helps them assimilate.

"I remember being a refuge," Kebede said. "I just sat and ate a little. No
running water or shower. No school.

"They need more schools and to learn to sew, make furniture and grow vegetables.
To learn English. They are Ethiopian, Eritreans and Sudanese. Some will go to
Western countries and others will be resettled. I want to start with one school,
get it running. Do it well. Maybe we'll be able to do another."

Kebede has raised more than $20,000 from a fundraising dinner she hosted at the
International Institute and other donations from customers, friends and
admirers.

"Shegitu is one of my top role models of people

coming from a tough background, rising to a middle-class lifestyle through hard
work, and not forgetting to help the people from which she came," said Joe
Selvaggio, the veteran nonprofit executive who recently retired from Microgrants
(www.microgrants.net), which connects donors and fledgling immigrant and other
small businesses with small grants.

"Shegitu had several rough years with her baby in a Kenyan refugee camp,"
Selvaggio said. "She was an orphan. She lost a brother to war. In America, she
started a cleaning business. Now she toils endlessly at her Flamingo Restaurant
and is helping her daughter get through college. She is always upbeat and works
hard and [helps] disadvantaged Africans or any disadvantage person. And now
she's going to take three months off to go to that refugee camp and build a
school."

In 2006, Kebede was awarded the McKnight Foundation's Virginia McKnight Binger
Human Service Award. In 2011, she was featured in the Minnesota History Center
exhibit, "The Value of One Life."

She has written her powerful story in a 2011 book, "Visible Strengths, Hidden
Scars."

Kebede has a special place in her heart for women and children. She was beaten
and raped while finding her way to a Kenyan refugee camp. And she survived an
abusive relationship in America.

She finds solace and meaning through her faith, friends and work; whether
cooking delicious food, serving guests or training immigrant workers.

Minnesota is an immigrant state. You particularly notice them in the resurgent
core neighborhoods of Minneapolis and St. Paul. About 10 percent of Twin Cities
residents are foreign-born.

Economic impact

Prof. Bruce Corrie at Concordia University in St. Paul long has studied
immigrants and economics. After an initial cost for resettlement and education,
they soon become net economic contributors. It's estimated that immigrant-owned
business alone employ 21,000-plus Minnesotans who produce about $2 billion worth
of goods and services annually.

In 2009, a study sponsored by the Minnesota Chamber of Commerce and the
Minnesota Business Immigrant Coalition concluded, "Unlike native-born Americans,
who are aging rapidly and creating what some have called a 'silver tsunami,'
immigrants are generally in their prime working years when they come to the
United States, thus providing a crucial infusion to the workforce."

Kebede is doing her share. She has worked with nonprofit businesses such as
Common Bond and Neighborhood Development Center to learn and increase her
skills. She meets with college students from Augsburg, Minneapolis Community and
Technical College and elsewhere to discuss immigration and business. And she is
thankful for her modest success.

She enriches us with her work and gratitude.

"Many businesspeople have helped me," Kebede said. "Business ... is the culture
of America. It brings people together and allows them to grow and flourish."

neal.st.anthony@startribune.com

612-673-7144

SHEGITU KEBEDE

Business: Restaurateur

Background: Kebede, 45, is an Ethiopian orphan who immigrated to the United
States in 1989. She has raised two children, worked as a hotel clerk and ran an
office-cleaning business for years that employed immigrant women. She has been
co-owner of Flamingo Restaurant in St. Paul's Hamline-University neighborhood
since 2010. Kebede also is a board member of the International Institute of
Minnesota.

In the news: Kebede, a past winner of the Virginia McKnight Binger Human Service
Award for her work with refugee families, is returning to Ethiopia this month
with about $20,000 in donated funds to build a school in a United Nations
refugee camp for East Africans. The school will teach English and work skills.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2014 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              439 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 28, 2013 Saturday

Saharan youth union to hold 8th conference 29 Dec

LENGTH: 160 words


Text of report in English by official news agency of the Saharan Arab Democratic
Republic (SPS) website

Auserd (Saharawi refugee camps), December 28, 2013 (SPS) -  The Eighth
Conference of the Youth Union of Saguia El Hamra and Rio e Oro (UJTSARIO) will
be held Sunday [29 December] in the wilaya [province] of Auserd, Saharawi
refugee camps, according to the organising committee.

About 200 delegates from more than 30 countries, including heads and members of
youth organizations and councils from Africa, Europe, Latin America, Asia and
the United States, the source indicated.

The participating delegations are coming from Algeria, Spain, Sweden, Britain,
France, Venezuela, Argentina, Chile, Jordan, Uganda, Tanzania, Central African
Republic, Niger, Zambia, Malawi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Guinea Bissau and Burkina
Faso, in addition to international organisations, the same source added.

Source: Sahara Press Service (SPS) website in English 1426 gmt 28 Dec 13

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              440 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          December 25, 2013 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

The blessing so many want

BYLINE:

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 539 words


Hard as it may be to believe, some refugees from Syria's civil war are returning
to their country -- because the refugee camps to which they fled are even worse.

"Mice walk around on our face while we are sleeping at night," a refugee at the
Zaatari camp in Jordan told the Hurriyet Daily News, an English-language paper
based in Turkey. "I would rather live under the bombshells in Syria than live
under these conditions here. We live like animals here." The comment came last
month, as between 200 and 300 refugees left the camp, the second-largest in the
world, to go back across the border 5 miles away.

One can hardly blame Jordan for the conditions. According to news reports,
roughly 800,000 Syrians have fled to the country since Syria's civil war started
in early 2011, and Jordan's population is only about 6 million. Florida's
population is nearly 20 million. The refugees we accept are those fleeing cold
winters and high taxes. And even some of them go back.

On this day of peace on Earth and good will toward men, there is not nearly
enough peace in the world. According to the website warsintheworld.com,
conflicts great and small plague 60 countries. They involve terrorist groups,
militia groups, separatist groups, anarchists and drug cartels. By the website's
count, the Americas are the calmest part of the world, while Africa is the
stormiest.

Samantha Power, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, was in the Central
African Republic last week. Christians and Muslims who once lived together are
now killing each other. South Sudan became a country just two years ago,
breaking off from Sudan in hopes of ending decades of unrest. The shared cause
of independence has given way to the shared desire for power at any cost .

We mention such tragedies on Christmas Day not with the idea of encouraging
people to demand that the United States do more. Those debates are taking place
and will continue. We mention it to underscore how fortunate Americans are that
this country is the place to which so many people from countries at war come, in
their hope of finding peace.

Within the United States, of course, are places that are not peaceful. Violence
rules too many streets. Neglect is part of too many communities. There can be
turmoil within families.

Yet, it is here that refugees seek safety, and it is here that many are
accepted. In 2009, according to the American Immigration Council, the United
States admitted nearly 75,000 refugees. Australia and Canada accepted refugees
at a slightly higher rate, based on population, but in terms of sheer numbers
the U.S. was far ahead. The number dropped significantly in 2002 and 2003, after
the 9/11 attacks, but then began rising.

A refugee is defined as "a person who is unable or unwilling to return to the
home country because of a 'well-founded fear of persecution' due to race,
membership in a particular social group, political opinion, religion, or
national origin." Despite all our increasingly uncivil political arguments,
let's keep things in perspective. On this beautiful Christmas morning in South
Florida, may we and all Americans also celebrate the gift of peace and wish it
for all the world.

Randy Schultz for The Post Editorial Board schultz@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2013 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              441 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                            December 8, 2013 Sunday

Refugees gather for Christmas party and give thanks

BYLINE: Madeleine Brown Deseret News

LENGTH: 874 words


HOLLADAY ? On a typical day, Ibrahim Ramazani goes to school, where he was
student of the month for October, and plays with his six younger siblings. The
top-scorer goes to soccer practice for his club Joga FC and watches Manchester
United games. Nine months ago, however, things were a lot different for the
14-year-old from Burundi.

Ibrahim spent almost half his life living in a refugee camp operated by the
government of Malawi after soldiers killed his father in 2006. But Africa wasn't
all bad. He had a lot of friends there, and they played soccer and swam every
day. However, he said, there was a lot of fighting there. "I think it's better
here," Ibrahim said Sunday, "because there's peace here." Ibrahim and his family
are just eight of about 250,000 refugees coming to the United States yearly ? a
number budgeted by Congress. About 1,200 refugees flee war-torn and violent
circumstances to Utah each year. Half of them are given assistance from Catholic
Community Services of Utah, which helps them through the refugee settlement
process. The rest are helped by the International Rescue Committee. "We try as
best we can to have all the refugees have volunteers who will be mentoring them,
tutoring them, teaching them, for them to learn the basic life skills in America
... to integrate them in the American culture," said Raul Yumul, the volunteer
coordinator for the refugee program at Catholic Community Services. It's
normally a 24-month process for them to make it here, and when they eventually
do, Catholic Community Services tries to give them the hope and the future that
they deserve, he said. Volunteers get an apartment ready for when the refugees
arrive, set them up with a case worker, help them find work and teach them how
to do everyday tasks like using the bus system. "We meet them at the airport,
and we set up the apartment ... so when they come, there's food on the table,
clean sheets, clean towels or soap ... and then we're just their advocates,"
said Chris McIntyre, a volunteer coordinator for one ministry. "It's a lifelong
friendship." Both volunteers and refugees gathered at Saint Vincent de Paul
Parish for an annual Christmas celebration Sunday afternoon. The volunteers,
mostly mentors who help the families transition to life in Utah, enjoyed a meal
with the families from places like Somalia, Myanmar, Burundi, Iraq and Bhutan.
Ibrahim sat and ate at a round table with his six brothers and sisters and his
mother, Cecilia Nahimana. She came to Utah with her seven children, now ages 7
to 14, in March. Going to school helps her children learn English, she said, and
she's not far behind. English is now her sixth language, after French, Swahili,
Kirundi, Chichewa and Kinyarwanda. Nahimana said she's much happier with her
situation now than at the camp and kept a smile on her face, even when she
talked about the difficulties she has faced. "The camp, it was difficult. The
food is difficult, clothes, water, everything is difficult to provide. ... (I
left) because of the fighting in Burundi and then I ran for Tanzania and then I
went to Malawai," she said. "(A soldier) killed my husband and now I'm a widow
because he killed my husband in Iran." Ubah Abdi, who gave a prayer in Arabic at
the celebration, is another single mother who came to Utah. She left Somalia
with her four children a year and a half ago. "When we came here it was very
hard because the United States and my country are very different. But now I'm
learning and I'm doing well," Abdi said. "Before they helped me, Catholic
Community Services, but now I can help other refugees." She said her children
are doing well, too, and they are all working hard to learn English with the
help of people from Catholic Community Services, whom she thanked profusely for
helping her learn and grow. "Life was so, so hard in my country," Abdi said.
"Now I'm not worrying (for my children's safety) when they go to school. That's
why I'm so happy to be in America. We are living in a blessed, blessed country.
We are feeling so safe here. I'm so happy about that." She said the culture is
much different, even with things like crossing the street or smiling at people,
but she likes American culture. Her 11-year-old daughter, Nura Fiidow, said some
of the biggest differences are the snow and the fact that people celebrate
Christmas. She misses Egypt, but has been able to make a lot of friends. She
said she is enjoying learning how to play the violin and appreciates the mentors
and volunteers. One such mentor is Michelle Wood, who just went back to school
to study public health. A service learning requirement for a refugee migrant
issue class spurred her on to volunteer, but she plans on continuing even after
the semester is over. Wood said she's gained a lot of perspective from working
with a family from Afghanistan. The woman, whose husband was killed by the
Taliban, is just a couple years younger than Wood, and their children are
similar ages. Wood lit up when she saw the family coming in to the celebration
and said she was impressed with their can-do attitudes and gratitude. "They have
the real desire to move forward," Wood said, "to succeed and to learn." Email:
madbrown@deseretnews.com, Twitter: @madeleine6

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2013 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

                              442 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

                            November 24, 2013 Sunday

Refugees gather for a feast of food;
For some, it was their first Thanksgiving in adopted country

BYLINE: Charlie Patton

SECTION: Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 553 words


During what is widely recognized as America's first Thanksgiving, a group of
refugees fleeing from religious persecution in England sat down with their new
Native American neighbors to share a feast.

Saturday, a group of refugees fleeing some of the most oppressive governments
around the world, gathered with their new Jacksonville neighbors for what has
become our standard Thanksgiving feast: turkey with mashed potatoes and gravy,
stuffing, a green bean casserole, a sweet potato casserole and some cranberry
sauce. There was also ham and pork and some cranberry sauce. Then some pumpkin
pie.

For many of the approximately 90 refugees who came to San Jose Catholic Church
for the afternoon meal, Saturday marked their first Thanksgiving dinner.

The refugees had been brought to the Jacksonville by the Refugee Settlement
Program of Catholic Charities of the Diocese of St. Augustine.

For David Rojas, his wife, Carmen Gonzalez, and his son David Rojas Jr.,
Saturday's feast was his second celebration of America's Thanksgiving. The
refugees from Venezuela arrived in Jacksonville last Nov. 15 and attended
Catholic Charities' Thanksgiving celebration at Immaculate Conception Catholic
Church less than two weeks later.

The food was different.

"We don't eat much turkey in Venezuela," Rojas said, adding that eating
cranberry sauce for the first time was a novel but pleasant experience.

He said he likes the story of the original Thanksgiving, the tale of the
Pilgrims and the Native Americans peacefully sharing a meal together, which he
called "a lesson for all of us."

That's why he was back at Catholic Charities' Thanksgiving celebration for a
second time, calling it a chance "for people from different countries to meet
and share peace."

As the food was being served and eaten, he and his wife sang Venezuelan songs
while he played the Venezuelan national instrument, the four-stringed quatro
(sometimes spelled cuatro).

For some of the volunteers from San Jose Catholic Church, the work of preparing
the feast began at 3 a.m.

That's when Glenn Trcalek and Larry Mendez arrived at the church parking lot
where they would grill seven turkeys, eight Boston butts and two hams. The side
dishes were put together at various volunteers' homes and brought to the parish
hall.

Other members of San Jose Catholic's team of about 20 volunteers spent their
morning driving refugee families to the church. Meanwhile, 50 volunteers from
Bishop Kenny High School checked arriving refugees into the parish hall and then
worked serving food from the buffet line.

"It's an opportunity to help people out and introduce them to an American
tradition," said Bishop Kenny junior Louie Walsh.

Chris Wilkey, who organized the San Jose volunteers and drove a couple of
refugee families to the lunch, said being involved in the event is very
satisfying.

"There is a lot of energy and the people are so thankful," he said. "... This is
what we're called to do. They bring Christ to me."

As the lunch began to wind down, a happy Ursula Alonso danced to Rojas' music.

Catholic Charities brought her to the United States from Cuba via Spain in
December 1967. Now she's a volunteer mentor for the Resettlement Program. She
said Thanksgiving has become a favorite holiday of hers.

"We have a lot to be thankful for," she said.

Charlie Patton: (904) 359-4413

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
Kelly Jordan For the Times-Union Enjoying their first Thanksgiving in the United
States, Mariam Ahmot, 4, (center) and her sisters Hadje, 7, (right) and Nadjima,
12, of South Africa sit down at the table to eat their food. Kelly Jordan For
the Times-Union Chan Za Peng, 4, from Burma watches as a traditional
Thanksgiving meal is served for his first Thanksgiving since arriving in the
United States four months ago. Refugee families enjoyed a traditional
Thanksgiving meal at San Jose Catholic Church on Saturday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 The Florida Times-Union

                              443 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                            Concord Times (Freetown)

                                October 28, 2013

UNHCR to Halt Support to Liberian Refugees

BYLINE: Ibrahim Tarawallie

LENGTH: 411 words


According to the Commissioner of the National Commission for Social Action
(NaCSA), the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugee (UNHCR) has announced
that they will halt their support to Liberian refugees living in the country at
the end of this year.

Speaking at a press conference in Freetown, Saidu Conton Sesay told newsmen that
there are still Liberian refugees in the country since the end of the war, but
emphasized that some of them went home while others were repatriated with
support from UNHCR, the UN system and the government. Those who stayed, he said,
were given the option to integrate if they chose and that they have gone a long
way with regards that process.

"We have now reached to a point where the UNHCR has said they can no longer
continue to support Liberian refugees living in the country. For those who are
integrating fully well, they will still have the opportunity of sharing services
that we are providing as a country," he said.

In his statement, UNHCR Country Representative, Jean Bosco Rushatsi, recalled
that back in 2002, up to 67,000 refugees from Liberia where in Sierra Leone but
as at now, only 4,100 are living in the country.

"In the main time, there have been a lot of repatriation movements. UNHCR has
carried out voluntary repatriation of 50,000 Liberian refugees while others went
home by their own. We still have refugees in this country," Mr. Rushatsi
explained. "We also help 3,000 Liberian refugees to resettle in other countries
like Canada, Australia and the United States of America."

He further explained that in 2009, donors started discussing the end of support
for Liberian refugees and that from July 1, 2012, there were no longer Liberian
refugees but maintained that the UNHCR offered the best chance to those who were
willing to repatriate.

"I was informed that about 400 Liberian refugees out of 1,032 qualified to keep
their refugees status. We have a total of 2,713 individuals who opted for local
integration to leave in this country like any other person. UNHCR was able to
provide a house for every single family applying for local integration through
the support of the African Development Bank and the Economic Community of West
African States (ECOWAS). Our material assistance will seize at the end of this
year," he maintained.

Mr. Rushatsi added that the government of Sierra Leone has agreed to provide
residential as well as work permits free of charge to those that opted for local
integration.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              444 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                           October 24, 2013 Thursday
                                  Main Edition

Woman honored for helping others

BYLINE: Shelia M. Poole; Staff

SECTION: METRO NEWS; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 401 words


When she was a child, Mireille Kibibi was spirited away from home to escape the
civil war in Burundi.

The girl fled to Rwanda with her father and sister, leaving all the family's
belongings and her mother, who was away visiting relatives in a nearby town. She
has not seen her mother since.

Kibibi and other relatives later settled in Uganda before coming to the United
States in 2005 as refugees.

Kibibi, now a Berry College accounting graduate, was honored Wednesday during
the Atlanta Women's Foundation's 17th-annual "Numbers Too Big To Ignore"
fundraising luncheon, feting her for overcoming the challenges in her life and
for her volunteer work mentoring other young refugees. She participated in
Refugee Family Services' Youth Empowered for Success Program.

"I feel like most kids from that area went through the same thing, but kids in
America will never experience something like that," said Kibibi, 23, a member of
the Tutsi ethnic group. "I don't wish anyone to go through that. That's why I
try to give back as I can."

The Decatur resident volunteers at RFS and said her dream is to "be a powerful
woman" who will someday return to Africa to help people who are suffering from
malaria and other issues.

"It is incredibly important in the refugee community that they cannot only
connect with someone who has been through the same things they have, but that
they have a role model who shows them all the things that are possible," said
Leann Malone, RFS director of development.

Indeed, the Atlanta Women's Foundation helps organizations that assist girls and
women such as Kibibi succeed. In the five-county metro area --- Fulton, DeKalb,
Cobb, Clayton and Gwinnett --- 81,000 girls live in poverty, according to the
foundation. In 2009, one in five babies within the five counties was born to a
mother still in high school or without a diploma.

The Atlanta Women's Foundation recently awarded $300,000 to 18 organizations
focused on the education, health and wellness of women and girls.

Tuesday's keynote speaker, Susan L. Taylor, editor emerita of Essence magazine
and founder of the National Cares Mentoring Movement, said it was disappointing
that the U.S., one of the wealthiest nations in the world, still has problems
with homelessness and hunger.

She issued a call for women and men to volunteer and support with organizations
helping girls and women.

"We're here to help the least of us," she said.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2013 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                              445 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

                             July 16, 2013, Tuesday

Minority community in Texas grieves death

BYLINE: Diane Smith, Fort Worth Star-Telegram

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P12A

LENGTH: 1371 words


FORT WORTH, Texas - Life for the ethnic minority Bantu people from Somalia has
meant a steady stream of danger, whether from armed militiamen, wild animals or
disease-infested refugee camps.

Children were taught from an early age to survive. When in the path of a lion,
stand tall. Don't panic. Don't run.

"The danger of Africa, we were prepared for it," said Ahmed Omar, a Somali Bantu
who fled the war-torn country and moved to Fort Worth.

After the State Department began resettling Bantu refugees in America in 1999,
dozens of families ended up living at an apartment complex in southeast Fort
Worth.

But rather than finding peace, they encountered more heartbreak, this time from
a predator for which they were unprepared.

Last month, Somali refugee Sida Osman - described by all as a charming and happy
5-year-old boy - was beaten to death with a bowling ball.

A 13-year-old boy from the neighborhood was arrested on a capital murder warrant
and remains in custody.

Sida had been playing outside on the evening of June 26 and was last seen riding
his bike.

His lifeless body was found the next day in the backyard of a nearby vacant
house.

The suspect, who is not being identified because he is a juvenile, told police
that he and Sida went into the fenced backyard in the 4800 block of Lois Street.
The teen became irritated with Sida and hit him multiple times in the head,
police said.

"Right now, what we see is a 5-year-old baby who is dead," Mohamed Bulle,
president of the Tarrant County Somali Bantu Association of Texas, said through
an interpreter. "He didn't do nothing wrong."

Sida's family and friends are left to wonder what lesson they missed, what they
could have done to protect him.

Many of the local Bantus grew up in Kenyan refugee camps, one of many stops in
their search for a peaceful life. As they mourn Sida's death, some can only
wonder whether they'll ever find that place.

"My heart went out to the family," said Myra Den-ton, a neighbor who offered
condolences to Sida's mother. "They were trying to find a safe place when they
came to America."

Sida's family made it to Webber Garden, a complex near Pate Elementary School,
thanks to relief agencies that aid refugees.

As war and genocide have ravaged countries such as Sudan and Somalia, local
agencies - namely World Relief, Refugee Services of Texas and Catholic Charities
- have tried to find new homes for the displaced in Fort Worth and Dallas.

Once in North Texas, many stayed because they found work, including at
Dallas/Fort Worth Airport, or formed strong communities.

From 2004 through 2008, about 13,000 Somali Bantus resettled in various states,
including Texas, Kansas, Maine and Missouri. Somali Bantu communities emerged in
Fort Worth, Arlington and Dallas; a group in Amarillo has ties to the Fort Worth
community.

Community leaders said about 70 Somali Bantu families live in the Webber Garden
complex or nearby, a gathering that began in 2005.

The community includes elders who grew up in Somalia, others who grew up in
refugee camps and youngsters born in the United States.

Couples have many children, often five to 10. Sida had four brothers and a
sister.

Many of the Bantus in Fort Worth were resettled by the local office of World
Relief, a Christian-based organization that helps with employment, case
management and immigration so refugees can get green cards or become U.S.
citizens.

"Our goal is to connect them with community members through churches," said Jeff
Demers, office director at World Relief in Fort Worth.

Most Bantu men found work at DFW Airport, driving buses, cleaning airplanes and
working as custodians, said Hussein Muday, who lives at Webber Garden.

Most of the women, who still wear colorful African dresses and robes, stay home
to care for youngsters, many of whom attend Pate.

Charles Hamilton, an apartment resident who has embraced the Bantus, said that
when they moved in, he was drawn to his kitchen window by a procession of people
dressed in brightly colored clothes.

"I saw all these people in all these colors," Hamilton said. "I said, 'Where did
they come from?' "

Sharon Armstrong has helped the Bantus and other African refugees for eight
years through her work with SEARCH, or Southeast Area Churches.

"A lot of people were not familiar with running water," she said.

Armstrong said she worked to build ties with the low-income and working-class
Americans who are the Bantus' neighbors.

"The cultures sort of clashed a little bit," she said. "Being from Africa is a
lot different than being poor in America."

Several years ago, Armstrong said, SEARCH organized a meet-and-greet at Pate
Park. The Bantus brought African dishes, and their Fort Worth neighbors brought
American food, she said.

Armstrong said the University of North Texas helped put together a booklet that
informed the neighborhood about the cultural challenges the Bantus face.

The Bantus at Webber Garden are a tight-knit group, with youngsters often moving
back and forth among apartments.

Older relatives speak their native language, while the young ones converse in
English.

Resident Mohamed Hamza, 33, said the children are lucky to be in the United
States.

"They are not in a refugee camp," said Hamza, whose family left Somalia when he
was a child. "Whoever is not a refugee, he can go wherever he wants."

Still, life in America has its challenges for the Bantus at Webber Garden.

The girls are singled out by other young people because of their hijab, a
headscarf worn by Muslim women. Some recalled stones being thrown at their
apartments when they moved in.

After Sida's death, frustrations boiled over.

Community members took to the streets, shouting "Peace and justice!" Others
carried signs saying, "We need peace" and "We are here legally."

A suspect is in custody, but many Bantus remain terrified.

"We are wondering what we are going to do right now," said Bulle, the Somali
Bantu Association president. "We understand that here is not safe."

(EDITORS: STORY CAN END HERE)

Hamilton, the neighbor, said the Bantus are hesitant to call police because they
learned to fear the authorities in Somalia.

A loud banging at the door can create a wave of fear in a Bantu home, he said.

But there have also been moments of kindness toward the refugees.

When Sida went missing, several women who are not part of the Bantu community
helped search for him.

"They were really scared for him," Hamilton said.

Church groups came in to pray and offer assistance.

Many Bantus praised Hamilton, who has always made them feel welcome.

When they arrived in 2005, he organized a grass-roots drive to collect beds,
pots, pans and other items for them. In the years since, Hamilton has remained a
friend.

When new refugees arrive at Webber Garden, they know to "ask Mr. Charles."

Bantus survived a civil war.

"They were raping our families," said Ayub Ibrahim, a Somali Bantu who lives in
Dallas. "They were killing us."

And they made it out of Kenyan refugee camps.

Now, after Sida's death, they wonder whether they can find sanctuary anywhere.

"We don't know where we are going to be," Bulle said. "We are just scared a
lot."

A CLOSER LOOK

Somalia is an East African country that borders the Gulf of Aden and the Indian
Ocean. It sits east of Ethiopia. Somalia has been marked by violence and
instability since the central government collapsed in 1991. In January, the U.S.
government recognized the Somali government for the first time since 1991. But
the United States does not have a diplomatic presence there. The Bantus are a
distinct group of refugees out of the many who have fled Somalia since the
1990s. They are descendants of slaves taken from southeast Africa in the Indian
Ocean slave trade. They are descended from Bantu-speaking tribes that originated
in Tanzania, Mozambique and Malawi. In Somalia, the Bantus were agricultural
workers who lived in the south. After civil war broke out, they were forced to
leave. Thousands ended up in refugee camps in Kenya.

Sources: U.S. State Department, Immigration and Refugee Services of America

MCT photo

Mohamed Hamza (from left), Mohamed Bulle and Hussein Muday talk about the death
of 5-year-old Sida Osman, who was beaten to death with a bowling ball, outside
the Webber Garden apartments in Fort Worth, Texas, July 2.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 Charleston Newspapers

                              446 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                    The Record (Kitchener-Waterloo, Ontario

                             June 15, 2013 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Escaped American slaves among first refugees to settle in Waterloo Region

BYLINE: Luisa D'Amato, Record staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 417 words


1840s and 1850s

30,000 American slaves escape to freedom in Canada through the Underground
Railroad. About 1,500 former slaves, and some free blacks, settle briefly in
Wellesley Township before moving on to Buxton in southwestern Ontario, north to
Grey County, or returning to the United States at the end of its Civil War.

1920s

About 20,000 Russian Mennonites flee war and revolution. Almost all arrive in
Waterloo County, staying temporarily with local Mennonite farmers as they get
acclimatized. Most move on to Niagara or the Prairie provinces.

1945 to 1950s

250,000 Europeans, displaced by the Second World War and its aftermath, flee to
Canada. Many ethnic German refugees find a welcome host in Waterloo Region, with
its many German-speaking citizens.

1969

Canada signs the United Nations Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees
and agrees not to return a person to his or her home country if the person has
grounds to fear persecution.

Late 1970s and early 1980s

77,000 refugees from Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia come to Canada in the aftermath
of the Vietnam War. Some settle in Waterloo Region. One group - 600 Hmong people
from Laos - almost all remain in this area, assisted by local Mennonites. They
form the Hmong Mennonite Church in Kitchener.

1980

The Canadian government announces that it will match the efforts of community
members who support refugees.

1986

Canada is awarded the Nansen Medal by the United Nations for its humanitarian
approach to settling refugees.

1980s

Conflict refugees from Guatemala, Nicaragua, El Salvador and Honduras make their
way to Canada, including Waterloo Region. Mennonite, Lutheran and other churches
assist them.

1987

The Mennonite Coalition for Refugee Support is created in Kitchener to help
refugees who arrive here and then make their refugee claim.

1990s

More than 10,000 Bosnian Muslims and Kosovars are brought to safety in Canada
from the ethnic violence in the former Yugoslavia.

Post-2001

Refugees from war in Afghanistan and Iraq, and from violence in Africa, Colombia
and the Middle East, arrive in Canada in increasing numbers. Waterloo Region now
takes in about 550 refugees a year.

2012

The federal government makes sweeping changes to the refugee system. It
increases the number of government-determined refugees, but restricts legal
options and health-care benefits for refugee claimants who arrive here from
countries thought to be safe.

Sources: Waterloo Region Museum, Waterloo Public Library, Citizenship and
Immigration Canada, Statistics Canada

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Metroland Media Group Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              447 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                              May 12, 2013 Sunday
                                  Main Edition

A home to calltheir own

BYLINE: Jennifer Pignolet jenniferp@spokesman.com,(509) 459-5461

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1861 words


Refugees find freedom, fresh start in Spokane

By Jennifer Pignolet

jenniferp@spokesman.com,(509) 459-5461

Dakie Tshilobo's U.S. Employment Authorization card

Congolese refugee Dakie Tshilobo stands wide-eyed with her mother, Jolie Ngenda,
and father,

Patrick Kazadi, after landingat Spokane International Airport late Feb. 7.

With midnight approaching, three weary travelers shuffle down the ramp past
airport security to the baggage claim.

The 5-year-old girl grips her mother's hand and tries to hide behind her as a
Middle Eastern woman greets them - their only link to their new lives in
Spokane.

As checked bags pass along the conveyor belt, the family searches for a single
suitcase stuffed with clothes and knickknacks that made the same two-day
journey: Namibia to South Africa to New York to Utah and finally Spokane.

The girl, Dakie Tshilobo, makes a playground from a row of chairs while her
parents talk of their travels and, before that, a combined 20 years as refugees
from the Democratic Republic of the Congo.

"We are here to reinvent ourselves," 37-year-old Patrick Kazadi says.

His family is among Spokane's growing community of people offered a fresh start:
Each weeknew families of refugees from all parts of the world arrive here,
fleeing persecution of some kind, full of hope and trepidation about their new
lives.

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees reported last month an 8
percent increase in the number of people seeking asylum worldwide from 2011 to
2012. Last year's total was the highest since 2003.

Some come with carts piled high with luggage, others with barely enough to fill
a single suitcase. The children enroll in local public schools where teachers
and aides accommodate diversity that includes 56 languages.

As world conflicts ebb and flow, so do the numbers and types of refugees seeking
new homes in the Inland Northwest.

U.S. accepts more refugees

A local branch of a national Christian organization, World Relief, helps
refugees resettle in Spokane.

The United Statesmakes resettling refugees a priority, accepting 10 times more
than any other country.

Resettling refugees remains a matter of foreign policy - a distinctly different
issue from the immigration debate dividing the nation, said Lavinia Limon,
president and CEO of the U.S. Committee for Refugees and Immigrants, a nonprofit
founded in 1911 to advocate for refugees. Refugees make up just 5 percent of all
immigrants to the United States each year.

While the White House limits how many refugees the United States will accept
each year, the practice of helping oppressed people enjoys support that spans
the political spectrum.

"Deciding that we're not going to help rescue anyone anymore is sort of a
betrayal of our core values," Limon said.

From a political standpoint, accepting refugees helps the United States' image
abroad and addresses concerns from Americans about people of their same
heritage.

"The Jewish community in this country was very concerned about Jews in the
Soviet Union," Limon said. "The Cuban community in Florida can sway an
election."

World Relief has resettled about 12,000 people in the Inland Northwest during
the past two decades, about 100 of them Congolese like Patrick Kazadi and his
family.

For each family, World Relief sets a goal: financial independence after six
months.

The local office hits that mark in about 75 percent of cases.

Driven from college to refugee camp

Patrick Kazadispeaks five languages,including English,studied chemistry in
college and grew up planning to be an engineer. He left his home in a southern
province of the Congo to attend college in the east.

He wasn't supposed to have a life of poverty.

And yet after witnessing the violent killings of many of his colleagues as they
sat in a college chemistry class, he found himself fleeing rebel militants.

"They shoot around and then we ran," Patrick said. "We leave everything at
school. We ran. Everyone ran."

It wasn't long before he was captured and conscripted into the rebel army. In a
camp, he went four days without food and witnessed men killed and women raped.
Some of the women killed themselves to avoid being attacked.

After two weeks, Patrick and about eight other men slipped a few soldiers the
equivalent of about $10 to let them escape.

He made it home only to find it empty. There was no sign of his family.

Rebels captured his group a second time, but they again managed to escape and
headed for the Zambian border.

Patrick traded his shoes to get his group a three-day boat ride across a
crocodile-infested lake and into Zambia.

From there they trekked south to Namibia and into the life of a refugee.

Camp was a learning experience

Patrick once hated the word "refugee." "I didn't want to be a refugee," he said.
"That was not my purpose."

It was a label he learned to wear proudly, however.

The traditional image of refugee camps full of tents and people wearing rags is
shattered by families like Patrick's. Decades of war, hunger and political
strife have created permanent camps that mirror many cities in the developing
world.

When Patrick first arrived in the Osire Refugee Camp in Namibia, there was no
running water or electricity. But within a few years a construction company
hired him to build housing. He would get up early before work to stand in line
to use the Internet.

Patrick involved himself in the political circles of the 20,000-person camp,
advocating for refugee rights and participating in peaceful demonstrations.

In 2004 officials arrested Patrick and 11 others in the camp after a protest
calling for better treatment in the camp. Half of those arrested were released
after two weeks, including Patrick; half were charged. A Namibian refugee
organization called the arrests an abuse of power.

It was soon after that a friend of Patrick's from Congo offered him a chance to
escape to South Africa.

"I'm a politician now," Patrick said. "I decided I cannot go to South Africa.
I'm defending refugee rights."

Patrick learned English, worked construction and taught French lessons on the
side.

He also met Jolie Ngenda, who had escapedCongo with her family.

The two married and had a daughter, Dakie Tshilobo.

After spending the first five years of her life in a refugee camp and in
Namibia's capital, Dakie has grabbed every opportunity in America to be a kid.

She opened every door, punched every button on the television and even pushed
around a dust mop in the World Relief apartment where the family spent their
first night in Spokane.

On Dakie's fifth birthday, the family moved into their more permanent home.

She celebrated by leaping from her parents' bed to her bare twin mattress and
back again, her dark braids flailing as she bounced.

"Make my bed pretty too," she begged her mother.

Patrick has a few friends spread across the United States, but he, his wife and
daughter have no family here.

He located one sister with help from the Red Cross, but has no idea what
happened to his parents or his other eight siblings.

The loss no longer haunts him.

"Now I've got a new life."

'I want to work'

When they first arrive, each refugee family is given $925 per person - a stipend
to pay for hotel rooms, if necessary, a down payment for housing, rent,
groceries and anything else they need.

Later in their first week, the families are able to apply for food stamps and
other government assistance until they are employed.

Supporting refugees is an issue of foreign policy, said Limon, of the U.S.
Committee for Refugees and Immigrants. While there are not reliable statistics
on how many refugees end up on some kind of government assistance years after
resettling, Limon said as a group they want to pay back their debts to America.

"They know they have to work to live," Limon said. "They also know they won the
lottery and they want to make the best of it."

Patrick - an athletic karate enthusiast who can always be found wearing some
kind of baseball cap - has spent four hours a day, four days a week in English
classes for most of his time here.

It wasn't time especially well-spent, he said; after taking classes in Namibia,
he already spoke a high level of English before coming to the States.

He has spent the rest of his time working with World Relief to find a job.

"I want to work," he said.

Patrick quickly learned that the skills required for most American jobs are not
ones learned in his English classes or in his college chemistry courses.

His first challenge was to learn to use a tape measure. With the rest of the
world using the metric system, coming to the United States and learning inches,
feet, yards and miles is a challenge.

World Relief setPatrick up with a job interview at a window factory in Spokane
Valley. Before the interview, Patrick spent three days practicing using a tape
measure.

He landed the job, but it turned out to be a poor fit and he quit.

"Maybe new chances are coming," he said.

He's applied for other jobs but hasn't found anything yet.

He knows he needs a job now. With a background in construction, he said he is
familiar with the concept of hard work. And he's willing to perform menial tasks
- for now. But he doesn't want to be cleaning toilets in five years, he said.
His childhood dream was to fly airplanes, ever since a pilot he met told him how
freeing it was to fly. He took aviation classes before starting his chemistry
degree but quit when the fees became too expensive. Now that he is in Spokane,
his sights are set on community college and a career as pilot.

"I know myself. I'm a serious man," Patrick said. "If I want it I will get it."

Until then, he is spending his time searching for work and playing with his
daughter. Jolie and Dakie have found a few friends in the area, mostly other
Congolese people, and make frequent trips to parks. Patrick said Dakie loves to
rehash her day, and he revels in every detail. He warns her to stay inside after
dark by teasing her there are lions outside at night.

Dakie asks frequently when she will go to school, as she did briefly in Namibia.

"I tell her 'tomorrow,'" her father said.

She could have enrolled in kindergarten right away, but her parents elected to
wait until the fall.

Although he struggles with not having a job, Patrick is confidentopportunity
lies ahead. Any struggle he endures now will likely never come close to what he
went through escaping militants in Congo and living as a refugee for 12 years.

And although he got used to the refugee label, he's ready to be rid of it.

"It doesn't mean we're going to be refugees forever."

Refugee defined

A refugee is someone who has fled his or her country of nationality due to a
well-founded fear of persecution for one of five reasons:race, religion,
nationality or membership in a particular social group, or political opinion.

Also today

World Relief's local office conducts simulated interviews to help Americans
understand the resettlement process.

Story, Page A8

Coming Monday

Iraqi refugee Omar Abdulrazaq arrived in Spokane in February with his wife and
their two sons after 10 years of living in Jordan. Their boys, ages 10 and 12,
attend Garfield Elementary School as their parents take English classes.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Spokane Spokesman-Review

                              448 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                            New Democrat (Monrovia)

                                 March 18, 2013

Liberians' Stay in U.S. Extended

LENGTH: 356 words


U.S. Sen. Jack Reed and U.S. Rep. Jim Langevin praised President Barack Obama
Friday for his decision to grant Liberian refugees an 18-month extension on
their U.S. residency, but said the time has come to give them permanent
residency status.

Liberians in Minnesota are glad for the reprieve but want permanent US
residency.

Rhode Island is home to one of the nation's largest Liberian communities. Many
refugees who fled Liberia's civil wars regularly face the threat of deportation
when their temporary residency status is up for renewal.

The administration's decision will allow Liberian refugees to remain in the
country until Sept. 30, 2014. They had been facing a March 31 deadline, when the
federal policy allowing them to live and work in the U.S. was set to expire.

Reed and Langevin said that while that's good news for the many Liberians living
and working in Rhode Island, many deserve a chance to become citizens and remain
in the U.S. permanently.

Reed, a Democrat, is the author of legislation that would give qualifying
refugees a process to obtain citizenship. He noted that two Rhode Islanders who
came to the U.S. from Liberia as young refugees died last year while serving
their adopted nation. Marine Lance Cpl. Abraham Tarwoe was killed in
Afghanistan, and Providence police Sgt. Maxwell Dorley died in an accident while
responding to a call for backup.

"We must honor the service and sacrifice of men and women like Lance Cpl.
Abraham Tarwoe and Sgt. Maxwell R. Dorley," Reed said in a statement. "We need
to fix our immigration laws and provide a path to citizenship for eligible
Liberians who call America home," concluded Reed.

Langevin recently met with leaders from Liberian communities around the nation
and said it's unfair to impose so much uncertainty on refugees who have in many
cases lived in Rhode Island for decades.

"Every year since 1991, families have waited to see if the Attorney General
would renew protections for them and permit them to stay in the nation that they
have come to know and love," he said. "We can and will work together to ...
ensure that they will have a permanent home in America."

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              449 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Times (Kigali)

                                 March 01, 2013

U.S. Donates U.S.$3.6 Million to Help DRC Refugees

BYLINE: Sam K Nkurunziza

LENGTH: 175 words


The US government has donated $3.6m (about Rwf2.2b) toward improving the living
conditions of Congolese refugees in Rwanda.

The US Ambassador to Rwanda, Donald Koran, handed over the donation to the UN
High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) after touring Nkamira transit centre in
Rubavu district, yesterday.

Koran said his Pentagon appreciates Rwanda's commitment to finding a peaceful
solution to the crisis in DR Congo.

"We recognise the tremendous support that Rwanda gives to UNHCR and the refugee
populations it hosts. We appreciate its willingness to share the burden with the
international community," he said.

The donation is to improve and expand facilities and services for refugees.

"The recent increase of refugees underscores the need to renew our support in a
timely manner," the envoy said.

Since the outbreak of violence that followed a mutiny in April last year, some
29,000 Congolese, mostly women and children, have sought refuge in Rwanda, .

Neimah Warsame, the UNHCR Country Representative, said her organisation has
financial constraints.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              450 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Times (Kigali)

                                 March 01, 2013

WWE Divas to Fight Malaria

BYLINE: Bonnie Mugabe

LENGTH: 304 words


WWE Divas Alicia Fox and Natalya are in the country visiting refugee camps as
part of their alliance with the United Nations Foundation's Nothing But Nets
campaign to help raise awareness and funds to fight malaria in sub-Saharan
Africa.

WWE's Divas will help distribute life-saving bed nets to help protect refugee
families, who are fleeing conflict in neighbouring Democratic Republic of the
Congo, from malaria.

They will also learn about the humanitarian situation in the country with the
help of United Nations Refugee Agency (UNCHR).

"Refugees already face unimaginable hardships," said Chris Helfrich, Director of
Nothing But Nets. "A simple bed net can stop mothers and children from worrying
about a deadly mosquito bite."

"We're proud to show the WWE Divas-and WWE fans everywhere-how malaria
prevention tools like bed nets keep families safe. With more than 140 million
social media fans, WWE and its Divas have an incredible opportunity to spread
the buzz about stopping malaria."

Nothing But Nets has partnered with UNHCR since 2008, working together to
provide vulnerable refugee families fleeing conflict or natural disasters with
insecticide-treated mosquito nets that can keep them safe from malaria. The
partners have provided more than 1 million bed nets to refugees living in camps
across Africa; as a result, malaria dropped from the leading killer of refugees
to the number five cause of death.

The trip is part of Nothing But Nets' alliance with WWE, announced at the 2012
Social Good Summit. There, UN Foundation Resident Entrepreneur Elizabeth Gore
appeared with McMahon and WWE Divas Layla and Alicia Fox, who urged their fans
to support Nothing But Nets online and offline.

Natalya and Alicia Fox are Canadian and American professional wrestlers and they
are all contracted with World Wrestling Entertainment.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              451 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                             January 4, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

TEACHING DRAMA TO TORTURERS;
Dr Jennifer Hartley has travelled the world using drama to help the victims of
torture and gangland violence, refugees and victims of human trafficking. She
spoke to Kirstie McCrum

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 22,23

LENGTH: 413 words


SHE is the Glasgow-born writer who has spent a career listening to stories of
suffering, cruelty and isolation. As director of Cardiff-based charity Theatre
Versus Oppression (TVO), Dr Jennifer Hartley specialises in therapy through
drama, running projects with torture victims and their torturers in South
America, refugees in Africa and gang members in the US.

Jennifer, who lives in Splott, Cardiff, with the TVO offices situated in the
Butetown History and Arts Centre, has spent the last year working in Thailand,
Germany, France, Hong Kong, North America, Africa and Singapore, and her
itinerary for the last 12 years has echoes of the same.

It all started with her own theatre group helping victims of torture in
Paraguay.

Speaking to torture victims and torturers from the brutal former regime,
Jennifer amassed real-life accounts of horrendous suffering.

"We listened for two years to torture victims and then moved on to the
torturers," she said.

"I knew more about torture and ways of torture than anyone should ever have to
and then all of a sudden I was sitting in a room with 16 men who did that.

"In the beginning, it did bother us. But we said to them, 'We can't avoid this,
why did you do what you did?' One of the men said, 'The military came to my
house and took my wife and children and said you work for us or we kill your
family - choose.' He said to me, 'What would you have chosen?' "That changed my
life. How dare I have judged him without knowing that?" To date, Jennifer has
brought together countless other projects, including working with a Kyangwali
refugee settlement in Uganda, domestic abuse sufferers in the UK and US and
human trafficking victims in Cardiff.

As for the people she works with, Jennifer says ultimately the benchmark of
success is how it has changed their lives.

"We get lovely feedback and a lot of our volunteers are people we've worked with
in an issue-based group," she said.

"The refugees have their own branch of TVO which they run and they're amazing,
they've got it in four refugee camps and in the Congo, in the middle of the war,
they started it. It's theirs now, they're growing with it.

"The refugees are starving, they're dying of malaria every day and if you
offered them either a meal or to do a theatre workshop with us, they'd choose
the theatre every time and they can tell you why - because for them it changed
their lives."

Applied Theatre in action - A Journey by Jennifer S Hartley is priced £22.99,
published by Trentham.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Left, Dr Jennifer Hartley, director of Theatre Versus Oppression, which
is based at Butetown History and Arts Centre in Cardiff Bay. Above, from top, Dr
Hartley with children of the Kyangwali refugee camp, Uganda, and training an
adult group at Sherman Cymru MAIN PICTURE: Rob Browne ©

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWE


                    Copyright 2013 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              452 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         Anchorage Daily News (Alaska)

                           November 22, 2012 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Refugees have much in common with Pilgrims;
COMPASS: Other points of view

BYLINE: By SUSAN BOMALASKI

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 682 words


At Thanksgiving we honor the Pilgrims who fled persecution in their home country
for a new land of freedom, and celebrate the hospitality they received from the
Native people after arriving. On Thanksgiving Day, refugee families in Anchorage
will experience this American tradition by joining in Thanksgiving gatherings
throughout the city; and giving thanks for their new lives in America.

In many ways, refugees arriving in America from around the world reflect the
story of the original Pilgrims that landed at Plymouth Rock. The refugees are
also fleeing persecution and seeking a life of freedom and safety in our
country. The United States has historically maintained a policy of admitting
refugees -- individuals who had to flee their countries of origin due to the
tragedies of persecution and war -- into this country. After World War II, the
United States recognized and solidified its dedication to protecting the
vulnerable and giving sanctuary to those persecuted and oppressed.

Catholic Social Services is part of a network that resettles refugees from every
region of the world and includes torture survivors, individuals seeking asylum
and victims of sexual and gender-based violence. Some refugees have lived in
camps for decades and been deprived of basic human rights. Refugees are distinct
from other immigrant groups in that they come here by presidential invitation
and under established federal appropriations. The United States Conference of
Catholic Bishops is one of 10 voluntary placement and resettlement agencies in
the nation making decisions about where refugees will be resettled. Annually,
about 65,000 refugees are resettled in the United States with about 120 coming
to Alaska.

Claude and Kayissan, refugees that our Refugee Assistance and Immigration
Services program resettled in Anchorage, will never forget the family meeting
where their loved ones urged them to take their kids and leave Togo -- the only
home they had ever known.

Claude had been a librarian for over 20 years in Lome, Togo in Africa -- his and
Kayissan's home. Along with being a librarian he was one of five district
leaders in the Union Forces for Change political party. UFC was in opposition to
the ruling government, which was known for horrific human rights abuses. Claude
and Kayissan acknowledge that Lome has been a violent place from their very
first memories, with kidnappings and assaults being common occurrences. That is
precisely why Claude thought it was important to join the UFC and try to change
his community, so that people need not live their lives in fear.

As Claude explains, "It was a long and difficult journey to Anchorage. We spent
seven years waiting for resettlement, living in very harsh conditions in Bamako,
Mali, after we fled our home in Lome. Now we have freedom -- freedom is very
nice, no one can hunt you, you are not an animal to shoot for what you think,
what you say. I feel like a bird out of his cage."

The RAIS program, Alaska's only refugee resettlement program, assisted 347
clients last year; 79 percent of all eligible refugees were employed and 94
percent of these have successfully retained their employment. Like the Pilgrims,
refugees arriving in America today must begin their lives anew.

Thanksgiving is a time to remember that when given an opportunity to do so,
refugees, including those coming to Alaska, contribute in significant ways to
making a community economically vibrant and ethnically diverse.

Refugees experienced trauma and violence in their home countries and by
accepting them into the United States we are literally saving their lives and
strengthening our communities.

The chair of the Refugee Council USA, states it well, "Many, if not most of us,
trace some part of our ancestry to refugees, and America's lead role in refugee
resettlement honors that heritage."

Thanksgiving is the perfect holiday for Americans to reflect on the special role
our country plays in providing safe haven to the persecuted of the world.

Susan Bomalaski is executive director of Catholic Social  Services Alaska.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Commentary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 Anchorage Daily News (Alaska)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              453 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         Anchorage Daily News  (Alaska)

                          November 21, 2012 Wednesday

Compass: Alaska, U.S. remain haven for refugees

BYLINE: By SUSAN BOMALASKI

LENGTH: 676 words


At Thanksgiving we honor the Pilgrims who fled persecution in their home country
for a new land of freedom, and celebrate the hospitality they received from the
Native people after arriving. On Thanksgiving Day, refugee families in Anchorage
will experience this American tradition by joining in Thanksgiving gatherings
throughout the city; and giving thanks for their new lives in America.

In many ways, refugees arriving in America from around the world reflect the
story of the original Pilgrims that landed at Plymouth Rock. The refugees are
also fleeing persecution and seeking a life of freedom and safety in our
country. The United States has historically maintained a policy of admitting
refugees -- individuals who had to flee their countries of origin due to the
tragedies of persecution and war -- into this country. After World War II, the
United States recognized and solidified its dedication to protecting the
vulnerable and giving sanctuary to those persecuted and oppressed.

Catholic Social Services is part of a network that resettles refugees from every
region of the world and includes torture survivors, individuals seeking asylum
and victims of sexual and gender-based violence. Some refugees have lived in
camps for decades and been deprived of basic human rights. Refugees are distinct
from other immigrant groups in that they come here by presidential invitation
and under established federal appropriations. The United States Conference of
Catholic Bishops is one of 10 voluntary placement and resettlement agencies in
the nation making decisions about where refugees will be resettled. Annually,
about 65,000 refugees are resettled in the United States with about 120 coming
to Alaska.

Claude and Kayissan, refugees that our Refugee Assistance & Immigration Services
program resettled in Anchorage, will never forget the family meeting where their
loved ones urged them to take their kids and leave Togo -- the only home they
had ever known.

Claude had been a librarian for over 20 years in Lome, Togo in Africa -- his and
Kayissan's home. Along with being a librarian he was one of five district
leaders in the Union Forces for Change political party. UFC was in opposition to
the ruling government, which was known for horrific human rights abuses. Claude
and Kayissan acknowledge that Lome has been a violent place from their very
first memories, with kidnappings and assaults being common occurrences. That is
precisely why Claude thought it was important to join the UFC and try to change
his community, so that people need not live their lives in fear.

As Claude explains, "It was a long and difficult journey to Anchorage. We spent
seven years waiting for resettlement, living in very harsh conditions in Bamako,
Mali, after we fled our home in Lome. Now we have freedom -- freedom is very
nice, no one can hunt you, you are not an animal to shoot for what you think,
what you say. I feel like a bird out of his cage."

The RAIS program, Alaska's only refugee resettlement program, assisted 347
clients last year; 79 percent of all eligible refugees were employed and 94
percent of these have successfully retained their employment. Like the Pilgrims,
refugees arriving in America today must begin their lives anew.

Thanksgiving is a time to remember that when given an opportunity to do so,
refugees, including those coming to Alaska, contribute in significant ways to
making a community economically vibrant and ethnically diverse.

Refugees experienced trauma and violence in their home countries and by
accepting them into the United States we are literally saving their lives and
strengthening our communities.

The chair of the Refugee Council USA, states it well, "Many, if not most of us,
trace some part of our ancestry to refugees, and America's lead role in refugee
resettlement honors that heritage."

Thanksgiving is the perfect holiday for Americans to reflect on the special role
our country plays in providing safe haven to the persecuted of the world.

Susan Bomalaski is executive director of Catholic Social Services Alaska.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Anchorage Daily News  (Alaska)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              454 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                     High Point Enterprise (North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            November 18, 2012 Sunday

Website, online project traces the local mosaic from immigrants

BYLINE: Paul Johnson, The High Point Enterprise, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 665 words


Nov. 18--HIGH POINT -- Peter Gatkouth's personal journey from a desolate refugee
camp in Africa to the office of a nonprofit organization in High Point traces an
experience both sobering and compelling, one that he now shares with dozens of
other immigrants through an ambitious online project.

As a young man 20 years ago, Gatkouth and his relatives coped with the hardship
of abject poverty and civil strife in Darfur, a region that recently became the
world's newest nation of South Sudan. Gatkouth, 44, eventually fled his homeland
because he was targeted for violence because of his background. But his journey
has come with a devastating price - he lost his father and two brothers in the
conflict over the fate of southern Sudan.

Gatkouth made it to the United States 12 years ago following five years in a
Kenyan refugee camp after he escaped his homeland. He became immersed in
America, appreciating its freedoms and the peace to craft a life of
accomplishment. Today, Gatkouth is a naturalized American citizen who helps
other newcomers to the United States as an immigration specialist for World
Relief in High Point.

When Gatkouth was approached about taking part in the new Where Are You From?
project, which chronicles the stories of immigrants from foreign countries to
the Triad, he didn't hesitate to provide a testimonial for the website.

"I talked about how very important it is to me to have freedom of worship,
freedom of movement, here in the United States. And voting, since I never voted
in Sudan," he said.

The Where Are You From? Project, launched nearly a year ago, sketches a video
and audio mosaic for Americans who were born and raised here about the
contributions that immigrants make to the United States, Gatkouth said.

"Immigrants join the military to protect the country, they pay taxes," he said.

The immigrants interviewed so far for Where Are You From? live in or near High
Point, Greensboro and Winston-Salem.

"For a year, we had been recording interviews and putting them on YouTube,
promoting that and raising awareness about what we were doing. But we decided
the website would be a good opportunity to attract more interest and have one
place for people to watch the interviews," said Alessandra Beasley Von Burg,
assistant professor in the Department of Communication at Wake Forest
University.

The university and Von Burg are among the primary organizers of Where Are You
From? The organizers have posted more than 35 interviews on the website so far,
said Von Burg, who came to the United States from Italy 18 years ago. The goal
is to have 100 or more interviews online within the next year.

"When you watch an interview, you can leave comments and share thoughts about
the individual stories," she said.

The website features an interactive map of the globe that pinpoints the nations
immigrants departed from to reach the Piedmont Triad.

"You can really see where people are from," she said. "We already have people
from every continent. It shows how diverse we are."

The website interviews have been used in settings ranging from elementary school
social studies classes to college courses, Von Burg said.

"Immigration is a huge issue. Often the discussion tends to be negative, and
immigrants are seen as a threat. One of the larger goals of Where Are You From?
is to show that everyone has a history of movement, especially within the United
States," she said.

The website also incorporates the personal stories of Americans who date back
six to eight generations, but whose family at some point in time were newcomers
to the United States, Von Burg said.

"The premise is that everyone has a story to tell about where we're from," she
said.

Where Are You From? is an oral history of where America is going demographically
and culturally.

"The website is a way to start a conversation," Von Burg said.

___ (c)2012 The High Point Enterprise (High Point, N.C.) Visit The High Point
Enterprise (High Point, N.C.) at www.hpe.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20121118-HP-IMMIGRANT-PROJECT-20121118

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HP


                      Copyright 2012 High Point Enterprise

                              455 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                 Jerusalem Post

                           October 18, 2012 Thursday

'Forgotten' refugees no more

BYLINE: MICHELLE HUBERMAN

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 747 words


If you have been following the work of my organization, Harif, (representing
Jews from the Middle East and North Africa in the UK) you will know that
campaigning for Jewish Refugees from Arab countries has, until last month, been
an uphill struggle.

However, the issue has moved to the mainstream since the "Justice for Jewish
Refugees from Arab Countries" conference last month in Jerusalem and the meeting
at the UN building in New York telling their untold story and featuring leading
advocates Alan Dershowitz and Irwin Cotler.

Some 64 years after the creation of the State of Israel in what is often
referred to as the forgotten exodus, 850,000 Jews were forced to leave Arab
countries as refugees, leaving their property behind. Over 600,000 went to
Israel, and until the Russia aliya of the 1990s the largest communities in
Israel were Moroccan and Iraqi. The rest went mostly to France, Canada, the
Americas, Australia and the UK.

Today just over half of the Israeli population is made up of Jews from Arab and
Muslim countries. The big question everyone is asking is why is recognition and
redress being discussed now? Why didn't previous Israeli governments bring the
issue to the UN years ago?

In Israel the issue is hardly known. Many of the older generation who have
traumatic memories of witnessing murders, torture and fleeing or being expelled
from with only a suitcase from Arab countries have found the experiences too
painful to retell to their children and grandchildren.

Other reasons why the Israeli government did not tell the Jewish refugee story
were the eurocentricism of the Israeli establishment, the desire to integrate
the refugees as immigrants returning to their ancestral homeland, and the
belief, especially on the Left during the Oslo years, that the Jewish refugees
were a "stumbling block" to peace.

The issue of refugee rights is now a hot topic with the national and
international media. Arab spokesmen and media have been thrown onto the back
foot. Hardly a day goes by without an opinion piece in Haaretz, criticizing or
extolling the Israeli government's diplomatic initiative.

Israel's stance on Jewish refugees only changed since the Yisrael Beytenu party
joined the coalition government in 2009 on a platform of rights-based diplomacy.
Building on a US Congressional resolution demanding parity for Jewish and
Palestinian refugees in 2008 and a 2010 Knesset law making compensation for
Jewish refugees a condition of a peace settlement, the initiative to make Jewish
refugees a policy issue came from Deputy Foreign Minister Danny Ayalon, the son
of an Algerian refugee father.

In 2010 he penned an op-ed in The Jerusalem Post headlined "I Am A Refugee."
That was followed with international op-eds and an information video, "The Truth
about Refugees," that has already had over a million views. Danny Ayalon was the
driving force behind last month's conference and UN meeting.

At the same time, the Foreign Ministry launched a Facebook page called "I am a
refugee": any refugee could upload his or her story online, giving the lie to
allegations that Jews left Arab countries of their own free will.

Describing the Jerusalem conference as "historic," Danny Ayalon said: "we will
work on achieving justice for Jewish refugees, who were expelled and tortured,
and whose rights were taken away." The conference produced a declaration
pledging the Israeli government to include the history of Jews from the Middle
East and North Africa in the school curriculum, to build a museum commemorating
their rich heritage, and to add a memorial day to the calendar.

In Israel, the lack of elementary knowledge, along with many of the older
generation withholding their stories, has led to naive young Israelis ignoring
their own rights, while peddling the "narrative" of Israel's enemies.

The work is not over, it is only just beginning. And we are waiting to announce
the date for a Jewish Refugee day to be inserted into the Jewish calendar. The
real challenge is to produce an education program not only for Israeli schools,
but also to teach Jews in the Diaspora the history of the Jews from Arab
countries.

Organizations like JJAC, Harif and JIMENA will continue to work alongside the
Foreign Ministry to instigate education programs in the UK and America.

We have Danny Ayalon and the current government to thank for putting this issue
firmly on the international agenda. The forgotten refugees are forgotten no
more.

The author is creative director of Harif.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: JEWISH REFUGEES arriving in Jerusalem in the wake of Israel's
Declaration of Independence. (Credit: Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              456 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                              New Vision (Kampala)

                                 July 21, 2012

U.S. Gives Rwamwanja Refugees Sh8.5 Billion

BYLINE: John Agaba

LENGTH: 293 words


The U.S. Government has given more than $3.4 million (about sh8.5 billion) to
the UN's World Food Programme (WFP) to help some thousands of refugees at
Rwamwanja refugee camp in Kamwenge district, western Uganda.

Because of the insurgency in neighboring Democratic Republic of Congo, there is
an influx of refugees trickling into Uganda, something that has put more strain
on WFP, it is reported.

WFP country director, Sory Ouane says asylum seekers arrive into Uganda with
hardly anything on them.

"They don't have food, cooking utensils, nothing. They don't have a place to
sleep."

"They arrive exhausted, hungry, under-nourished, and with traumatized children.
WFP's support is the first full hot meal in days for many new arrivals," Ouane
explains.

"This contribution [from the U.S.] could not have come at a better time," he
says.

According to him the donation will enable WFP help approximately 260,000
refugees and many other vulnerable people.

The asylum seekers enter Uganda through Nyakabande transition center in Kisoro.

They stay there as they make up their mind-whether to go back to Congo or stay,
but most of them stay. Those who choose to stay are cared for mainly by WFP and
UNHCR.

Because the number of those who opt to stay is high and initially could not be
accommodated at the Nakivale refugee camp, also in western Uganda, government
created Rwamwanja refugee camp However, Sory said some of the funds donated
would go towards helping vulnerable groups in Karamoja.

The north eastern region is home to chronic food insecurity, which prompted WFP
to donate food rations to the residents.

About 148,000 people from the region will be helped this year, he added.
"Malnourished children will be assisted through community-based supplementary
feeding."

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              457 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Times (Kigali)

                                 July 20, 2012

Malawi Pledges to Hunt for Genocide Fugitives

BYLINE: Gashegu Muramira

LENGTH: 228 words


The Malawian government has vowed to arrest Genocide fugitives on its soil while
fully supporting the enforcement of the tripartite secession clause on Rwandan
refugees when it comes into force in June 2013.

Malawian Home Affairs Minister Uladi Mussa made the commitment on Wednesday in a
meeting with Rwanda's High Commissioner to Tanzania Ben Rugangazi shortly after
the latter had presented his credentials to Malawian President Joyce Banda.

"Hon Uladi Mussa promised his government's support to the enforcement of the
tripartite secession Clause on Rwandan refugees once it comes into force in June
2013," the Rwanda High Commission in Tanzania said in a statement sent to The
New Times yesterday.

Rugangazi added that the Malawi government had expressed commitment to cooperate
in tracking and bringing to justice Genocide fugitives who may be hiding in
Malawi.

Rugangazi said that President Banda expressed satisfaction at the "excellent
relations" between the two countries.

With about 5,000 Rwandan refugees in Malawi, the country has often been accused
of releasing Genocide suspects under unclear circumstances.

Genocide fugitive Vincent Nzigiyimfura was arrested and thereafter left the
country for the United States of America in 2009.

A few years ago, Charles Bandora, another Genocide fugitive, was also arrested
in Malawi, but released under unclear circumstances.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              458 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                              New Vision (Kampala)

                                 July 18, 2012

U.S. Hails Uganda On Refugees

BYLINE: Taddeo Bwambale and Norah Mutesi

LENGTH: 432 words


The United States government is willing to support Uganda to adopt a new policy
on handling urban refugees in the country, an official from the US State
Department has disclosed.

Ambassador David Robinson, the visiting Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary to
the Bureau of Population, Refugees and Migration said his country was pleased
with Uganda's efforts to deal with refugee situation.

"I am very impressed with the efforts of the Uganda government and host
communities in dealing with the refugee situation. Through our institutions and
organisations, we will support Uganda to continue assisting the refugees," he
said.

He made the remarks at a meeting with Government and refugee agencies to discuss
a new UN policy on refugees in Kampala.

The envoy encouraged Uganda to implement the new UN policy, which offers
refugees the option to stay in camps or settlements, or move to urban centres.

The United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) developed the new policy
in 2009, replacing the 1997 policy which restricted refugees to live in camps.

The UN was forced to change its policy as a result of deteriorating conditions
in camps and the challenge of rapid urbanization, UNHCR's head of policy
formulation, Jeff Crisp said.

"When you talk about refugees, people think about camps in rural areas. But this
has changed because more than 50% of refugees all over the world live in urban
centres," he said.

He explained that the new policy would focus on collaboration with the private
sector, local communities and the Government to expand social services where
refugees are resettled.

In Uganda, the number of urban refugees has been rising rapidly from 8,000 in
the 1990s to over 43,000 presently.

Charles Bafaki, the senior resettlement officer in the office of the prime
minister advised partners to ensure that the policy caters for host communities
to minimise hostility over scarce resources.

"As the urban case load expands, there is need to increase facilities in the
host communities. Otherwise, they may question why they should bear the
pressure," he noted.

Rubaga division mayor, Joyce Sebugwawo decried the behavior of some refugees in
city suburbs, describing them as a security threat.

"Some of them come with pistols and sharp objects. They are very uncooperative
and do not respect hygiene of the places where they live," she said.

The new refugee policy is intended to improve reception, registration,
documentation and protection of refugees.

Uganda's Refugees Act, 2006 provides for several incentives including allocation
of land for cultivation to improve their livelihood.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              459 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                              New Vision (Kampala)

                             June 7, 2012 Thursday

U.S. Urges Nations to Back UN Appeal for Refugees

LENGTH: 364 words


The United States Wednesday voiced concern at the "dire situation" facing
Sudanese refugees in South Sudan, and called on other nations, donors and
private companies to step up to support a UN appeal.

Washington urges "the international community to join us in our efforts to
relieve suffering and assist those affected by the ongoing violence," State
Department spokesman Mark Toner said in a statement, adding that the US
administration had already provided $34 million in emergency aid.

There were now more than 150,000 Sudanese refugees in South Sudan, mainly
fleeing from Sudan's Blue Nile and Southern Kordofan states, he said.

There was concern about their access to water, while aid agencies, already
lacking in resources, were struggling to improve the road network to allow
access to the swelling refugee settlements.

"An even greater emergency could be on the horizon as the rainy season threatens
to severely curtail access to refugee-hosting areas," Toner warned.

The UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) has appealed for $145 million to
help prevent a humanitarian catastrophe, but Toner said despite the US
contribution "70 percent remains unfunded."

"We call on all international partners to help us meet UNHCR's urgent request...
We also urge all donors, as well as private companies that may have
critically-needed equipment in the refugee-hosting areas of South Sudan, to
provide additional support to the humanitarian response."

War broke out a year ago forcing increasing numbers of hungry people to flee
Sudan's South Kordofan and Blue Nile states, into the neighboring fledgling
state of South Sudan.

Despite months of international concern over malnutrition and food shortages,
the Sudanese government, citing security factors, continues to tightly control
access by foreign aid agencies to the area.

Ethnic Nuba of the Sudan People's Liberation Movement-North (SPLM-N) fought
alongside southern rebels during Sudan's 22-year civil war which ended in a 2005
peace deal that paved the way for South Sudan's independence last July.

Fighting erupted in South Kordofan after the SPLM-N alleged fraud in elections
and its armed wing was ordered to move into South Sudan.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              460 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                              June 4, 2012 Monday

Refugees left adrift

SECTION: EDIT; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 329 words

ABSTRACT

A new report from a United Nations agency raises concerns that the displacement
of families is on the rise.

FULL TEXT

Around the world, some 42.5 million vulnerable people were forcibly out of their
homes and on the move in 2011, according to the office of the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees. There are growing concerns that those numbers
will get even worse in the face of armed conflicts and political violence that
are increasingly exacerbated by climate change, population growth, rising food
prices, natural disasters and struggles for scarce resources.

According to António Guterres, the U.N. high commissioner for refugees, Africa
and Asia are the most vulnerable regions. But new crises are appearing
unpredictably - in the past year, thousands have been driven from their homes in
Syria, Sudan, Mali, Yemen and Côte D'Ivoire - and will continue to grow.

Since 2005, the agency's caseload has expanded - from about 24 million, mostly
internally displaced persons and refugees, to roughly 37 million at the end of
2010.

Today's environment is also more chaotic. Instead of negotiating with
governments for humanitarian access, the agency often must deal with multiple
actors, including warlords and rebels and breakaway regions, even less subject
to international pressure, law or shaming. The risk for aid workers and the
displaced has increased.

There is also a crisis of political will. The international community,
preoccupied with financial and domestic crises, has been less willing to help -
whether with money or diplomacy or offers of asylum.  There are no easy answers,
but certain strategies stand out. In 2010, 94 percent of all resettled refugees
went to just four countries: Australia, Canada, Sweden and the United States,
which takes more than any other country. Surely there are scores of others that
can also open their doors.  As ever, the best solution is for the world to do a
better job of pre-empting conflicts in the first place.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              461 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Analyst

                             May 23, 2012 Wednesday

UN Security Council delegation interacts with Ivorian Refugees

LENGTH: 685 words


The fifteen members of the United Nations Security Council  delegation co-led by
Ambassador Susan Rice of the United States of  America and Ambassador Mohammed
Loulichki of Morocco were in Zwedru, the  capital of Grand Gedeh County, to meet
Ivorian refugees at the Primier  Timber Production Company (PTP) refugee camp.
The Ambassadors flew in from Guiglo on the Côte d'Ivoire side of the border.

The premises of the former Primier Timber Production Company (PTP) is now the
largest of the six   refugee  camps set up by the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees  (UNHCR) and Liberian Refugee, Repatriation and
Resettlement Commission  (LRRRC) in Liberia to receive Ivorian refugees. PTP has
a population of  over 7,200 persons.

While at PTP camp, the UN delegates heard  from various Ivorian refugee leaders,
both men and women, representing a  cross section of all six refugee camps set
up in the country.

The Ambassador of Morocco, Mr. Mohammed  Loulichki, addressing the refugees in
French on behalf of the  delegation, said they had come to see them at PTP with
a message of  hope; hope that the refugees would soon see their loved ones in
peace,  security and dignity.   He also praised the high level of  generosity
shown by the Government and people of Liberia who have  welcomed their neighbors
in need.

Before the delegation broke out into  smaller groups to listen to individual
testimonies and concerns,  Ambassador Susan Rice of the United States of
America, told the  refugees, "we are grateful for your welcome; we are listening
closely;  and we are looking forward to discussing with you."   Pointing  out
that the delegation had just come from Côte d'Ivoire, the US  Ambassador said,
"we are interested in your stories; how did you get  here and why and what are
your concerns about returning home."

Briefing the Security Council delegation on  the situation of Ivorian refugees
in Liberia, the head of UNHCR's  country office, Mr. Cosmas Chanda, spoke of the
efforts put in place by  the Government of Liberia with the assistance of the UN
family,  including UNCHR and UNMIL. The Liberian Government, through the LRRRC,
"are working closely with its partners, including the entire UN family,  to meet
the needs of Ivorian refugees who came into Liberia" he said.

Some 200,000 refugees fled in search of  security within Liberian territory in
the aftermath of the disputed 2010  presidential run-off election in Côte
d'Ivoire. The situation claimed  the attention of a wide range of humanitarian
actors and Liberian  institutions, who mobilized to bring assistance to Ivorian
refugees,  Liberian returnees and third country nationals. More than half of
those  who came into Liberia have since returned, either on their own or with
UNHCR assistance. Liberia currently hosts more than 67,300 Ivorian  refugees who
are mainly located in the border counties of Grand Gedeh,  Maryland, Nimba and
River Gee.

During their stay in Zwedru the UN Security  Council were briefed on UNMIL/UNOCI
inter-mission cooperation  arrangements, including their impact, benefits and
challenges, as well  as the way forward for both of the UN missions in Liberia
and Côte  d'Ivoire.

The delegation was accompanied in Grand  Gedeh by the Officer-in-Charge of the
United Nations Mission in Liberia  (UNMIL), Mr Moustapha Soumaré; the UNMIL
Force Commander, Major General  Muhammad Khalid; UNMIL Police Commissioner, Mr.
John Nielsen, the head  of UNHCR, Mr. Cosmas Chanda; the Special Representative
of the  Secretary-General for the UN Mission in Côte d'Ivoire (ONUCI), Mr.
Albert Koenders, and other senior UN officials.

Earlier in the week, the Security Council  delegation was in Monrovia for a
two-day visit on 19 and 20 May, before  departing for Côte d'Ivoire as part of
their three-country West Africa  tour. While in Liberia, the delegation met with
President Ellen Johnson  Sirleaf, and various other stakeholders, including
Liberian security and  rule of law authorities, as well as representatives of
Liberian civil  society organizations. The last visit of the Security Council to
Liberia  was in 2009.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              462 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Times (Kigali)

                              May 18, 2012 Friday

U.S. Contributes $50,000 Towards Refugee Welfare

BYLINE: James Karuhanga

LENGTH: 135 words


The United States government has provided a $50,000 donation to refugee relief
efforts after more than 8,000 Congolese crossed into Rwanda over the last few
weeks.

They fled from renewed conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC),
pitting government troops and mutinous soldiers.

In a statement by the US embassy, in Kigali, the assistance that has been
channelled through the local office of the United Nations Children's Fund
(UNICEF) will help improve sanitary, sewage and drainage conditions of Nkamira
Transit Centre, where the refugees are currently sheltered.

The funds were handed over to the UNICEF country director, Noala Skinner, by
U.S. Ambassador to Rwanda, Donald Koran.

In a related development, the embassy also donated medical supplies and blankets
to UNHCR to assist in the relief efforts.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              463 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Monitor (McAllen, Texas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             May 17, 2012 Thursday

Report spotlights refugees of Mexico's drug war

BYLINE: Ildefonso Ortiz, The Monitor, McAllen, Texas

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 751 words


May 17--Apprehension gripped Carlos Acosta as he crossed the Hidalgo
international bridge into Reynosa.

Just a few years ago, he wouldn't have sweated the trip: a few quick errands in
a midsize sedan.

But rising border violence has changed the picture. Today Acosta makes these
trips less often -- and only during the day.

It was the volatility of the drug war in northern Mexico that led Acosta, who
was born and raised in the coastal city of Tampico, Tamps., to move his family
to the United States in 2010. They had been targeted by kidnapping threats. One
attempted abduction was foiled by the Mexican military.

"It just became too much," he said in Spanish. "It got to the point where not
only did you have regular shootouts, but every week you found out someone you
knew had been picked up and his family had to pay ransom money, or someone else
had been extorted.

"That's not the way an honest family should live."

Acosta is just one of the thousands of Mexican nationals who have packed up
their belongings and relocated to another Mexican city or to the U.S.

Some 140,000 people have been internally displaced by drug cartel violence since
2007, with the Mexican government still failing to acknowledge the displacement
of people, according to the Global Overview 2011 report, released in late April
by the Internal Displacement Monitoring Center and the Norwegian Refugee
Council.

Perhaps dismissive of the report, Mexican Secretary of State Alejandro Poire
noted the United Nations did not compile it, and he said his office was not
familiar with the information on which the IDMC and Norwegian Refugee Council
based their work.

CARTEL CATALYST

Internal displacement in Mexico and other Latin American countries -- like
Colombia and Peru -- differs from that seen in other parts of the world in that
it stems from organized crime rather than political- or religious-rooted
conflicts, according to the report.

"People fleeing threats to their physical security by drug cartels have not
necessarily found the safety they sought and have continued in some cases to
face criminal violence," the report states.

The head of the IDMC, Kate Halff, said her organization has been tracking human
displacement for more than 14 years, and 2011 was an unsafe time for millions of
people worldwide -- not just in Mexico.

"From criminal violence including attacks by armed groups in sub-Saharan Africa
or by drug cartels in Latin America, to armed clashes such as those associated
with the conflict in (Ivory Coast) or the uprisings across the Arab world: Such
events caused hundreds of thousands of people to flee their homes," she said.
"Many risked their lives as they sought refuge in unfamiliar environments while
facing a constant struggle to meet their basic needs."

According to 2010 from the IDMC and Norwegian Refugee Council, some of the
increase in violence can be attributed to the violent clashes between highly
armed criminals and the Mexican military.

"In 2006 the Mexican government of (President) Felipe Calderon launched a
military offensive against the country's drug cartels," the 2010 report states.
"The intervention of the armed forces in cornering rival groups reportedly
sparked vicious turf wars over previously agreed trafficking routes ... some
refer to the situation as one of armed conflict or insurgency."

The Global Overview 2011 report talks about the more than 400 refugees who fled
in November 2010 from the small town of Ciudad Mier to the neighboring city of
Miguel Aleman. According to news articles published by The Monitor at the time,
the exodus had to do with the sudden increase in violence between the Gulf
Cartel and their estranged allies, the Zetas.

At the time, city officials and the Mexican military set up a shelter at a
gymnasium and at the Lions Club hall in Miguel Aleman, across the Rio Grande
from Roma, to house the refugees.

By January 2011, most of the refugees had returned home, the IDMC report states.

"It is only through effective government action," Halff said, "that responses
can be developed which improve the long-term prospects of internally displaced
people and allow them to make their own decisions concerning their future."

Ildefonso Ortiz covers law enforcement and general assignments for The Monitor.
He can be reached at iortiz@themonitor.com and (956) 683-4437.

TWITTER

Follow Ildefonso Ortiz on Twitter: @ildefonsoortiz

___ (c)2012 The Monitor (McAllen, Texas) Visit The Monitor (McAllen, Texas) at
www.themonitor.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120517-MC-Report-spotlights-refugees
-of-Mexico-s-drug-war-0517-20120517

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MC


                           Copyright 2012 The Monitor

                              464 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               New Era (Windhoek)

                             April 23, 2012 Monday

Locals Have a Thing for Canada

BYLINE: Lorraine Kazondovi

LENGTH: 401 words

DATELINE: Windhoek


Senior Communications Advisor at the Immigration and Refugee Board of Canada
(IRB), Melissa Anderson has confirmed that Namibia was the third largest source
of new refugee protection claims referred to the IRB in 2011.

She could however not confirm the actual number of refugee protection claimants
from Namibia currently in Canada. She also revealed that more than 1000 claims
from Namibia were pending on December 31, 2011.

Executive Producer at the Namibian Broadcasting Corporation (NBC) of the
Otjiherero radio service, Uzeraije Tjazerua, estimates the number to be above
3000 after visiting the North American country some two weeks ago. Tjazerua,
together with Sports Presenter of the NBC Otjiherero radio service, Rodman
Katjaimo, visited Canada for two weeks to acquaint themselves with the lives of
Namibians living in that country and to report about them.

Anderson explained that to be accepted as a refugee, claimants must show that
they have a well-founded fear of persecution based on one of the following
grounds: race, religion, nationality, political opinion, or membership in a
particular social group.

"To be found to be in need of protection, claimants must be people whose removal
to their home country would subject them personally to the danger of torture, a
risk to their life or the risk of cruel and unusual treatment or punishment,"
she said.

However, Anderson added that there are many other factors involved in
determining a claim, including the conditions in the source country; the
availability of state protection, aa well as the credibility of the claimant
among others.

Tjazerua said reasons provided by asylum seekers include claims that education
is not free in Namibia; discrimination against homosexuals; the disputed 51
percent unemployment rate, as well as domestic violence, among others.

Responding to suggestions that it has now become difficult for Namibians to
travel to Canada, Manager of Media Relations and Communication of the
Citizenship and Immigration department in Canada, Jack Branswell, said there
have been no changes. "Namibians still do not require a visa to visit Canada,"
he said.

Lorraine Mahua, a Namibian living in Canada, alleges that Air Namibia staff
demand kickbacks to allow Namibians to travel to Canada. As a result, Air
Namibia decided to assess all Namibian passport holders travelling to Canada
with the assistance of the Canadian government.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              465 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                   Azer News

                            April 4, 2012 Wednesday

UNHCR report on asylum shows claim rates surged

LENGTH: 420  words


A report released by the UN refugee agency on asylum in industrialized countries
shows that new conflicts and a rising outflow from older crisis spots such as
Afghanistan together contributed to a 20 percent rise in asylum claims in 2011.

UNHCR's report, Asylum Levels and Trends in Industrialized Countries 2011, says
that an estimated 441,300 asylum claims were recorded last year compared to
368,000 in 2010. The report covers 44 countries in Europe, North America,
Australasia, and North-East Asia.

In relative terms, the largest increase was in southern Europe, which saw 66,800
asylum claims - a jump of 87 percent. Most of these claims were from people who
arrived by boat in Italy and Malta, but with a sharp increase also seen in
Turkey.

"The large number of asylum claims clearly shows 2011 to have been a year of
great difficulty for very many people. We can be thankful only that throughout
this the international system of asylum has held firm," said Antonio Guterres,
the UN's High Commissioner for Refugees. "Still, it is important to put these
figures in perspective. The number of asylum claims received across all
industrialized countries is still smaller than the population of Dadaab, a
single refugee camp in northeast Kenya."

Taken as a whole, the 38 countries of Europe together registered 327,200 claims,
more than any other region and a 19 percent increase over 2010. North America
received 99,400 claims, almost a quarter more than the total a year earlier.
Japan and the Republic of Korea registered a record 2,900 claims, a 77 percent
increase over 2010.

Only the Nordic countries and Australasia saw asylum seeker numbers declining,
with falls of 10 percent (45,700 claims) and 9 percent (11,800 claims)
respectively.

Reflecting turmoil in West Africa and in the Arab world, asylum-seekers from
Cote d'Ivoire, Libya, Syria, and other countries reached record levels in 2011
with 16,700 more claims than in 2010.

The country of origin of the largest number of claimants was Afghanistan, with a
34 percent increase over 2010 to 35,700. China remained the second largest
source country (24,400 claimants) followed by Iraq (23,500).

The United States, with an estimated 74,000 claims, ranks as the country with
the highest number of asylum applications in 2011 among the 44 countries covered
by the report. Globally, however, the country with the highest number of asylum
applications is South Africa (not covered by the report), which saw 107,000
claims between January and December 2011.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Azer News Newspaper
                              All Rights Reserved

                              466 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         The Chronicle of Philanthropy

                                 April 1, 2012

African Newcomers Get Help Adjusting to American Life

BYLINE: Nicole Lewis

SECTION: FACE OF PHILANTHROPY; Community

LENGTH: 514  words

ABSTRACT

For individuals and families struggling with relocation issues, the Colorado
African Organization offers not just English, computer, and civics classes but
help in navigating health, transportation, and housing systems.

FULL TEXT

In a Denver classroom, eager students learn the alphabet, colors, opposites, and
numbers with help from cheerful posters on the wall. But the students are not
young children enrolled in a typical school. Rather, the men and women come from
Africa, and the classroom is part of the Colorado African Organization, a group
that seeks to help Africans learn the skills they need to succeed in America
while creating camaraderie among refugees and immigrants.

Success means getting a job that matches one's abilities and living in a safe
home, says Kit Taintor, the group's executive director: "We are interested in
that next step, as opposed to self-sufficiency."

The Colorado African Organization was started in 2003 after a group of local
African professionals met to discuss how they could make the transition to
America easier for the next wave of Africans settling in Denver. (The group also
works in a few other places in the state.)

Among the hardships for newcomers, many of whom have fled famine, war, or both
and lived for years in perilous refugee camps: learning a new language, helping
their children adapt to school, and finding a well-paying job. The assistance
that the group provides goes beyond English, computer, and civics classes.
African caseworkers help individuals and families navigate unfamiliar health,
transportation, and housing systems. The group also organizes discussions led by
Africans covering topics such as HIV testing and how to get actively involved in
the education of children in the family.

The benefit is twofold, says Ms. Taintor: Africans receive valuable information
in a manner comfortable to them, and the group leaders, who receive a small
stipend from the Colorado African Organization, gain self respect, confidence,
and often job skills by acting as leaders among their peers.

Ms. Taintor says the group, which helped about 4,000 people last year, faces
many challenges, including serving a diverse population of people from 55
countries who speak 800 ethnic languages. Also, Africans account for less than 1
percent of Colorado's population, making it difficult to gain attention and
support, she says.

Nearly all of the group's $550,000 budget comes from government grants. She
would like to attract more assistance from organizations like the Rose Youth
Foundation, which awarded the Colorado African Organization $15,500 in the past
two years. Part of the Rose Community Foundation, Rose Youth trains Jewish
teenagers how to give away money locally. While the money helped, the education
the young grant makers received was even more valuable, says Ms. Taintor.

"There are international populations locally that really need support in the
same way people abroad need support," she says. "It's great to see these kids
realize this, and that their dollars can have a great impact in their home
communities."

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A member of the Rose Youth Foundation visits an English-language class
run by the Colorado African Organization.
Photograph by Chris Takagi
African Newcomers Get Help Adjusting to American Life 2

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Chronicle of Philanthropy
                              All Rights Reserved

                              467 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            March 29, 2012 Thursday

Pakistan: Asylum requests to rich countries rose in 2011: UN

LENGTH: 483 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS


UNITED NATIONS, March 29 -- New conflicts and a rising outflow from

older crisis spots such as Afghanistan together contributed to a 20

per cent rise in asylum claims in industrialized countries in 2011,

the UN refugee agency said in a report released Wednesday.

UNHCR's report, "Asylum Levels and Trends in Industrialized Countries

2011," says that an estimated 441,300 asylum claims were recorded last

year compared to 368,000 in 2010.

The report covers 44 countries in Europe, North America, Australasia

and north-east Asia. In relative terms, the largest increase was in

southern Europe, which saw 66,800 asylum claims, a jump of 87 percent.

Most of these claims were from people who arrived by boat in Italy

and Malta, but with a sharp increase also seen in Turkey. "The large

number of asylum claims clearly shows 2011 to have been a year of great

difficulty for very many people.

"We can be thankful only that throughout this the international system

of asylum has held firm," said UN High Commissioner for Refugees Antonio
Guterres. "Still, it is important to put these figures in perspective.

The number of asylum claims received across all industrialized countries

is still smaller than the population of Dadaab, a single refugee camp in
north-east Kenya," he added, referring to a camp complex for Somali refugees.

Taken as a whole, the 38 countries of Europe together registered

327,200 claims, more than any other region and a 19 per cent increase

over 2010. North America received 99,400 claims, almost a quarter more

than the total a year earlier. Japan and South Korea registered a

record 2,900 claims, a 77 per cent increase over 2010.

Only the Nordic countries and Australia saw asylum-seeker numbers

declining, with falls of 10 per cent (45,700 claims) and 9 per cent

(11,800 claims) respectively. Reflecting turmoil in West Africa and in

the Arab world, asylum-seekers from Ivory Coast, Libya,

Syria and other countries reached record levels in 2011 with 16,700

more claims than in 2010.

The country of origin of the largest number of claimants was

Afghanistan, with a 34 per cent increase over 2010 to 35,700. China

remained the second largest source country (24,400 claimants), followed

by Iraq (23,500).

The United States, with an estimated 74,000 claims, ranks as the

country with the highest number of asylum applications in 2011 among the

44 countries covered by the report. Globally, however, the country with

the highest number of asylum applications is South Africa (not covered

by the report), which saw 107,000 claims between January and December

2011.

Serbians, who submitted the highest number of applications in 2010,

fell to fourth place last year. Conflicts and revolutions in

Syria, Tunisia, Ivory Coast, Libya and Egypt also drove up applications

from those countries. Many from those nations fled to southern Europe,

the global body said Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right
Vision News.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              468 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                   defenceWeb

                            March 28, 2012 Wednesday

Arab Spring helps push 2011 asylum claims up 20 percent in the West

BYLINE: Reuters

LENGTH: 569 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Arab Spring helped push up the number of people seeking asylum in
the West by 20 percent last year, with record numbers fleeing conflicts in
Libya, Syria and Ivory Coast, the United Nations refugee agency said yesterday.



 A total of 441,300 asylum claims were registered in 44 industrialised countries
in 2011 compared with 368,000 the previous year, the U.N. High Commissioner for
Refugees (UNHCR) said. Afghans formed the biggest group, followed by Chinese and
Iraqis.



 "Reflecting turmoil in West Africa and in the Arab world, asylum seekers from
Cote d'Ivoire (Ivory Coast), Libya, Syria and other countries reached record
levels in 2011 with 16,700 more claims than in 2010," the UNHCR said.

 The largest regional rise was in those applying for refugee status in southern
Europe. Most arrived by boat in Italy and Malta, originating from North Africa
or sub-Saharan Africa. Turkey also saw a sharp influx of Iraqis.

 The 2011 figures were the highest since 2003 when more than 505,000 requests
were lodged in industrialised countries.

 Asylum and immigration are political flashpoints in many European countries,
including Britain, France and Italy, as well as in Australia and the United
States.

 Italy had its largest ever number of asylum seekers last year with at least
34,000 according to provisional government figures. That was an increase of 240
percent, the UNHCR said.

 "The government of Italy is still processing claims from 2011, so it is likely
that the number will go up even higher by a few thousand. We're waiting for the
final numbers, but it's a record number in Italy in 2011," Tarek Abou Chabake, a
senior UNHCR statistician, told a news briefing.

 "France and Germany went up, France for the fourth time in a row, Germany now
for the third time in a row, so figures are significantly up," he added.

 Antonio Guterres, U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees, said it was important to
put the latest figures in perspective.

 "The number of asylum claims received across all industrialised countries is
still smaller than the population of Dadaab, a single refugee camp in northeast
Kenya," he said.

 The sprawling Dadaab complex, the world's largest refugee camp, shelters
462,856 Somalis who have fled war and drought.

 About 35,700 Afghans sought asylum in the West last year, a 34 percent increase
on 2010, while 24,400 Chinese lodged claims, half of them in the United States.
Iraqis were the third largest group, filing 23,500 asylum requests in
industrialised countries.

 Europe was the preferred destination for refugees, with the continent's 38
countries receiving 327,200 asylum claims, a 19 percent annual increase. The
European Union (EU), with 27 member states, had 277,400 claims, a 15 percent
rise.

 But the United States was again the country that received the biggest number of
new asylum claims, accounting for 74,000 applications or one in six overall.
Requests there grew 33 percent, half of them by asylum-seekers from China,
Mexico and El Salvador.

 Canada had 25,300 applications, a 9 percent rise.

 France had the second largest number of asylum requests last year at 51,900, an
8 percent rise, due to more claims from Armenians and Ivorians, though Russians
formed the main group.

 Germany was third with 45,700, an 11 percent increase, due to higher numbers
from Afghanistan, Syria and Pakistan.

 The number of asylum-seekers in Australia and New Zealand fell by 9 percent
last year to 11,800, mainly because fewer would-be refugees arrived in Australia
by boat, it said.

 "Asylum levels in Australia remain below those recorded by many other
industrialised and non-industrialised countries," the UNHCR said.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 ITWeb Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              469 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                            March 28, 2012 Wednesday

Asylum bids to industrial nations rose 20% in 2011

BYLINE: RICK GLADSTONE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 400 words

ABSTRACT

People fleeing new uprisings in the Middle East and Africa, combined with a
rising tide of people escaping from chronic conflicts like those in Afghanistan
and Iraq, contributed to a 20 percent rise in requests for asylum in
industrialized countries last year, the U.N. said Tuesday.

FULL TEXT

People fleeing new uprisings in the Middle East and Africa, combined with a
rising tide of people escaping from chronic conflicts like those in Afghanistan
and Iraq, contributed to a 20 percent increase in requests for asylum in
industrialized countries last year, the refugee agency of the United Nations
reported on Tuesday.

The agency's annual report, Asylum Levels and Trends in Industrialized Countries
2011, said 441,300 people had requested asylum last year, compared with 368,000
in 2010.

The report surveyed 44 countries in Europe, North America, Asia and Australia.

The report said the region with the largest increase in claims for the year was
Southern Europe, where 66,800 people sought asylum, most of them arriving by
boat in Italy and Malta, an increase of 87 percent from the year before.

''The large number of asylum claims clearly shows 2011 to have been a year of
great difficulty for very many people,'' António Guterres, the U.N. high
commissioner for refugees, said in a statement from his Geneva office.

Together, the 38 countries of Europe registered 327,200 asylum claims, more than
any other region; the figure was a 19 percent increase over 2010. North America
registered 99,400 claims, a 25 percent increase.

The country of origin for the largest number of asylum seekers was Afghanistan -
35,700, a 34 percent increase from the year before. China remained the
second-largest source of asylum seekers, at 24,400, followed by Iraq, at 23,500.

The United States was the individual country covered by the report that received
the most applications for asylum, estimated at 74,000.

But the report noted that South Africa, which was not covered, received 107,000
asylum claims in 2011. South Africa has attracted an enormous number of refugees
lately, not only from neighbors in southern Africa but also from as far away as
Pakistan and Bangladesh.

The report noted that while claims for asylum are an indicator of the
desperation created by conflicts, they are not an indicator of broader migration
trends, and do not reflect the number of people who are officially recognized as
refugees.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              470 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 28, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wars in Middle East and Africa Fuel Rise in Asylum Requests

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 369 words


Escapees from new uprisings in the Middle East and Africa, combined with a
rising tide of people fleeing chronic conflicts like those in Afghanistan and
Iraq, contributed to a 20 percent increase in requests for asylum in
industrialized countries last year, the United Nations refugee agency reported
Tuesday.

Its annual report, Asylum Levels and Trends in Industrialized Countries 2011,
said 441,300 people requested asylum last year, compared with 368,000 in 2010.
The report surveyed 44 countries in Europe, North America, Asia and Australia.

The report said that the region with the largest increase in claims for the year
was southern Europe, where 66,800 people sought asylum last year, most of them
arriving by boat in Italy and Malta, an increase of 87 percent from the year
before.

''The large number of asylum claims clearly shows 2011 to have been a year of
great difficulty for very many people,'' Antonio Guterres, the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees, said in a statement from his Geneva office.

Together, the 38 countries of Europe registered 327,200 asylum claims, more than
any other region; the figure was a 19 percent increase over 2010. North America
registered 99,400 claims, a 25 percent increase.

The country of origin for the largest number of asylum seekers was Afghanistan
-- 35,700, a 34 percent increase from the year before. China, the world's most
populous nation, remained the second-largest source of asylum seekers, at
24,400, followed by Iraq, at 23,500.

The United States was the individual country covered by the report that received
the most applications for asylum, estimated at 74,000. But the report noted that
South Africa, which was not covered, received 107,000 asylum claims in 2011.
South Africa has attracted an enormous number of refugees lately, not only from
neighbors in southern Africa but also from as far away as Pakistan and
Bangladesh.

The report noted that while claims for asylum are an indicator of the
desperation created by conflicts, they are not an indicator of broader migration
trends, and do not reflect the number of people who are officially recognized as
refugees.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company

                              471 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Analyst

                           February 23, 2012 Thursday

Over 60,000 Citizens Expected Back Home -As UNHCR Sets Deadline For Refugee
Status

LENGTH: 308 words


The United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) has set aside June 30,
2012 as deadline for granting of refugee status to all Liberians seeking asylum
around the globe.

Speaking to the BBC's Network Africa program last week, the NUHCR's
spokesperson, Solomon Momodu, said all Liberians residing in neighboring and
other Western Countries under the status of refugee will no longer be considered
under that nomenclature beginning July 1, 2012.

Mr. Momodu disclosed that asylum status provided Liberians due to the civil
crisis which began on December 24, 1989 has finally come to an end, and
indicated that any Liberian going beyond the time limit set by the Commission
will not be considered under such classification, and as such encouraged
Liberians to return home to contribute to the rebuilding of their war- ravished
country.

He, nonetheless, disclosed that the Commission has repatriated over 120,000
Liberians since its voluntary repatriation exercise was launched, and revealed
that the NUHCR is currently working out mechanisms to bring back home thousands
of Liberian refugees   that  are willing to return home between now and the
deadline set.

Mr. Momodu further revealed that over 60,000 more Liberian   refugees are to be
repatriated back into the Country.

It is not clear how thousands of Liberians seeking asylum will react to the
Commission's latest pronouncement, especially for those Liberians residing in
the Americas and other European nations seeking grainer pasture.

Meanwhile, credible reports gathered by this paper speak of mix feelings amongst
the refugees, as many of them are said to be seeking permanent status in Western
Capitals, while those who are already residing in Ghana, Guinea, Nigeria and
Ivory Coast are said to be fighting their way through oversea relatives to get
to America and Europe for survivability.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              472 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                            February 17, 2012 Friday
                                 CITY-C Edition

Delaware County retiree works to help Eritrean refugees

BYLINE: By Michael Matza; Inquirer Staff Writer

SECTION: PHILADELPHIA; P-com News Local; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1130 words



Wallingford's lush hills are a world apart from the arid Horn of Africa. But a
trim stone Tudor in the Delaware County suburb is a humming hub of help for
refugees from one of the world's most repressive regimes.

Since the birth of Eritrea as a nation in 1993, more than 200,000 of its people
have fled the dictatorship of President Isaias Afewerki. Under his government,
Human Rights Watch monitors say, "arbitrary arrests, torture, and forced labor
are rampant."

Something had to be done to make this stop, John Stauffer resolved.

So, in 2010, he cofounded the America Team for Displaced Eritreans, an
all-volunteer effort that he runs from a spare bedroom in his 75-year-old
Wallingford home.

With a board of eight Eritrean immigrants and two Americans, and $35,000 in
private donations annually, the group has provided cash assistance, clothing,
household goods, and advocacy for hundreds of Eritreans in America. Since 1994,
an estimated 12,575 Eriteans have moved to the United States, with from 50 to 60
currently in the Philadelphia area.

The group's network of supporters in seven mostly East Coast states supplies
translators and expert testimony in asylum cases. Its website,
www.EritreanRefugees.org, is a news clearinghouse.

Slightly larger than Pennsylvania, the country of nearly six million people is
bordered by Ethiopia, Sudan, Djibouti, and the Red Sea. But Eritrea was a
province of Ethiopia 46 years ago when Stauffer, freshly graduated from Juniata
College, served there with the Peace Corps. He fell in love with the place.

In 1968, he returned to the United States to work at Rohm & Haas, marketing
chemicals used to manufacture paint. He retired in 2006 and incorporated the
nonprofit America Team four years later.

On a typical day, Stauffer, 68, posts news about Eritrea and works the phones,
sharing information with aid groups and government agencies. He recently
highlighted the 2012 Reporters Without Borders index ranking Eritrea dead last
among 179 countries in press freedom. In December, he posted news about economic
sanctions the United Nations imposed on Eritrea for allegedly arming Somalian
warlords.

Among Stauffer's ongoing concerns is fallout from the Arab Spring -
specifically, the plight of Eritreans fleeing to Israel via the Sinai, where
Bedouin bandits have held them up.

Israel's Interior Ministry reports that 20,000 Africans, mostly Eritreans and
Sudanese, enter Israel annually seeking jobs and safety. Israel says it does not
deport them because the human rights records of Eritrea and Sudan are so
abominable.

In concert with the Hebrew aid group HIAS and Council Migration Service of
Philadelphia, Stauffer tracks the movement of Eritreans held hostage in the
desert.

"When Eritreans are going through difficult times, in Libya, Egypt, or anywhere,
[Stauffer] is always the first to come out and say, 'Please, please try to
help,' " said Eskinder Negash, who was born in Ethiopia to Eritrean parents and
whom President Obama appointed director of the federal Office of Refugee
Resettlement in 2009.

Stauffer reimmersed himself in the struggles of the small African nation in
2003, when he helped bring to America an Eritrean he knew from his Peace Corps
days teaching English, science, and art to Eritrean teens. Prompted to reconnect
with the man after hearing about him from an immigrant friend they had in
common, Stauffer reached out by e-mail and telephone.

He arranged for the man to get a visa to the United States, and personally paid
for his plane ticket. He supported his successful application for asylum. Today,
the man, his wife, and two daughters live in Florida. He is business manager for
the America Team.

Among Stauffer's supporters are fellow members of Wallingford Presbyterian
Church.

"In a world of need," former pastor Suzan Hawkinson once wrote, his team "is a
remarkably effective conduit of assistance and hope."

The Eritrean community in Southeastern Pennsylvania and South Jersey is very
small, said Juliane Ramic of the Nationalities Service Center, the Philadelphia
agency that has resettled most of the refugees who live in the region. Of 1,980
who arrived in the United States last year, 55 entered in Pennsylvania and eight
in New Jersey.

Eritrea has a "diaspora tax," under which Eritreans living abroad pay 2 percent
of their income to its government. Those in the United States often speak of
being followed or visited by people they suspect are Afewerki agents, Ramic
said. "They don't know who to trust."

As recently as last Thursday, Stauffer said, "I exchanged e-mails on
[intimidation] with the State Department."

Eritrea's Ministry of Foreign Affairs called the accusations against its
government "malicious distortions" and "outright lies."

Interviewed Friday, Dawit Haile, a spokesman for the Eritrean Embassy in
Washington, cited numerous satellite dishes and Internet cafes in his country as
proof that free expression is valued. The United States and United Nations
demonize Eritrea with "propaganda," he said.

Brushing aside such arguments, Stauffer provides technical assistance and
training for Nationalities Service Center staff, to aid its communication with
Eritrean clients. He inscribed staffers' names on ID badges using the Ge'ez
alphabet used in Eritrea.

English is difficult to master for speakers of Tigrinya, Eritrea's main
language. So Stauffer's team created a pamphlet-size Tigrinya-English picture
dictionary that shows how to write and pronounce common actions like walking and
running, as well as body parts and foods.

It includes words useful for immigrants: Next to a picture of a robed man in a
courtroom is judge.

The United Nations awarded Eritrea, a former Italian colony, to Ethiopia in 1952
in a post-World War II realignment of Africa. A decade later, Ethiopia annexed
Eritrea, triggering a 30-year war for independence that ended after rebels
defeated government forces and Eritrea became a nation.

Along with civil strife, Eritrea is plagued by frequent droughts and locust
swarms.

National service - including military duty with no time limit - also drives
young people to leave, adding to the refugee crisis. More than 42 percent of the
population is under 14.

U.N. monitors have found evidence that high-level Eritrean officials facilitate
escapes for cash, charging about $3,000 per person to leave a country where the
average annual income is $710.

In a cable published two years ago by WikiLeaks, the U.S. ambassador to Eritrea
described Afewerki, a former hero of the country's independence, as "cruel . . .
defiant" and "unhinged."

"It's a classic case," Stauffer said, "of someone who has gotten into power and
takes every nondemocratic effort to sustain it."

Contact staff writer Michael Matza at 215-854-2541 or mmatza@phillynews.com.


LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved

                              473 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                    Capital

                                February 6, 2012

Ethiopian refugees account for 9% of Africans IOM resettled

LENGTH: 866 words


US still the No.1 destination for immigrants


Refugees from Ethiopia accounted for about nine percent of all African migrants
resettled by the International Organization for Migration (IOM) from 2001-2010
according to a World Migration Report (WMR) released under the banner
"Communicating effectively about Migration" by the IOM here in Addis Ababa on
January 30, 2012.


The United States was the main destination for most Ethiopians, followed by
Western nations like Canada, Australia, Nordic and other countries in Western
Europe. The US alone took in about 66 percent of the refugees worldwide at
532,078 migrants with the other regions only managing 103,282 resettled
refugees.
By far the largest number of refugees resettled in the report released by the
IOM came from the war torn Horn of Africa country Somalia representing about 30
percent of the total African refugees, followed by Sudan at 15 percent and
Liberia at 12 percent. In total about 245,350 people were resettled from Africa
the largest among the world's region closely followed by Asia at 234,620
migrants, and Europe and Middle East distantly in fourth and fifth place with
162,350 and 101,751 people respectively.
In the Asian region refugees from Myanmar took the overwhelming majority at 43
percent, followed distantly by the Central Asian Country of Afghanistan known
internationally for its long ongoing civil war at 18 percent and the small
Himalayan Kingdom of Bhutan at 17 percent.
While in Europe refugees from the Islamic Republic of Iran took the lead at 27
percent, followed by the eastern European country of Ukraine and the world's
largest country Russian Federation.
At the other end of the spectrum major involvements in voluntary repatriation
assistance IOM gave from 2001-2010, Ethiopians are in the top ten. The
Ethiopians were mainly repatriated from the Middle Eastern country of Yemen and
totaled 3,312.
Nevertheless the largest number of voluntary repatriation assistance given in
this period were for Angolans returning from Zambia, followed by Democratic
republic of Congo returnees from Angola and returnees of Afghani origin from
Tajikistan. In total 130,610 people were involved in the resettlement scheme
from 87 countries, costing USD 41 million during this period.
The report also noted that in 2010, about two thirds of migrants from Sub-Sahara
moved to other countries in the region. Only four percent of all migrants living
in developed countries were found to be from Sub-Saharan Africa.
And 90 percent of North African migrants travelled to countries outside the
region. Some of the North African countries such as Algeria, Egypt, Morocco and
Tunisia had as early as the 1960s and 1970s began actively facilitating the
international mobility of their nationals.  According to the report, in total
about half of Africa's migrants live outside the continent, the majority in
Europe with their remittances back home constituting 2.6 percent of Africa's
GDP.
One interesting aspect of the report was the 2006 survey done by the European
Commission which found that the Scandinavian country of Sweden had the highest
proportion of respondents with 79 percent of those who thought immigrants
contribute a lot to the country.
This figure was followed by the southern European country of Portugal at 66
percent and Ireland and Luxembourg following at 56 percent each.
Yet the European Union average stood at only 40 percent of respondents, with
prominent countries like United Kingdom and France having less than 50 percent
positive respondents and the European Economic giant Germany having only a
measly 30 percent of positive respondents. Eastern and Central European
countries formed the least number of positive respondents among the 25 countries
surveyed.
Another revealing data the IOM report showed was that eight of the ten top
countries with the highest share of international migrants relative to their
native population were located in the Middle Eastern Countries. The report
revealed that although Europe and North America had the highest number of
immigrants, in total in terms of population they are far outpaced by these
Mideast countries.
The countries mentioned were mostly the Gulf region states of Oman, Qatar,
Bahrain, Kuwait, United Arab Emirates and the regional heavyweight and the
world's largest oil producer Saudi Arabia. Jordan was the only non-Gulf country
in the field.
The United States in 2010 according to the IOM report was the top country of
destination in the world hosting 43 million foreign nationals, representing
roughly 13.5 percent of the US population with the Hispanic population nearly
doubling over the last decade, while the Mexicans alone accounted for 11.6
million immigrants or just about less than a third of the foreign population.
The publication of the report was launched on January 30, 2012. It was attended
by Ethiopia's Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Haliemariam Desalegn,
William Lacy Swing IOM Director General and representative of the African Union
Chairman Doctor Olawale Maiyegun.

Crown Publishing P.L.C. Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. (Syndigate.info).

http://imgs.syndigate.info/362/1223/49/147340004374.jpg



LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1223


                     Copyright 2012 Crown Publishing P.L.C
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              474 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (Nairobi)

                           January 25, 2012 Wednesday

U.S. Urges Govt. Not to Send Back Somali Refugees

BYLINE: Kevin J Kelley

LENGTH: 275 words

DATELINE: New York


Kenya has been urged to continue providing refuge to Somalis fleeing violence
and hunger in their homeland, a US State Department official said on Tuesday.

"We continue to rely on and advocate strongly for the protection of Somalis
inside Kenya, that they should not be sent back into Somalia in order to create
some sort of a buffer zone," declared David Robinson, acting assistant secretary
of state for population, refugees and migration.

Mr Robinson spoke at a press briefing in Washington on the status of the food
crisis in Kenya and elsewhere in the Horn of Africa.

His comments came two days after Internal Security Ministry Permanent Secretary
Francis Kimemia suggested that Somali refugees might be returned home soon.

"The government intends to commence modalities for the relocation of the
refugees back to Somalia in liaison with the UNHCR [United Nations High
Commission for Refugees] and the international community now that safe havens
have been created in Somalia following the ongoing Operation Linda Nchi," Mr
Kimemia had said in a statement on Sunday.

Mr Robinson acknowledged in the briefing that "there has always been a certain
amount of tension about the presence of Somalis, large scale numbers of Somalis,
in a protracted situation inside Kenya."

Close to half a million Somalis are living currently at the Dadaab refugee camp
in northern Kenya.

Mr Robinson added that "clearly the goal of the international community is that
at some point Somalis can voluntarily and safely return home."

He emphasised, however, that Somali refugees "need to have their protection
assured inside neighboring countries until they can go home in safety."

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                     Copyright 2012 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              475 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       Financial Times (London, England)

                           January 14, 2012 Saturday
                                London Edition 1

Paperbacks: Voice of America

BYLINE: James Urquhart

SECTION: FT WEEKEND SUPPLEMENT - LIFE & ARTS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 164 words



HIGHLIGHT: Voice of America

by EC Osondu

Granta £7.99, 224 pages


Winner of the 2009 Caine Prize for African Writing, EC Osondu's promising debut
story collection is populated by a varied cast of Nigerians. There are the
youths in a refugee camp sharing their meagre hopes of western aid; there are
gullible, superstitious parents; emigrants struggling to succeed in America; a
prostitute's hapless boyfriend; and a disciplinarian forcing his boys to witness
a morally instructive public execution.

There's an engaging breadth of both the domestic and public in Voice of America
. Yet while the smooth fluency of Osundu's prose carries the reader in many
places, in others it flows too quickly over emotional turmoil that might reveal
greater depths. His fondness for a mildly homiletic tone - and the lack of a
sharp, concluding twist that the short form relies upon to snare the reader -
takes the edge off too many of these tales. The result is a collection that has
more of a sense of intriguing Nigerian scenes than insightful, tenacious
stories.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 The Financial Times Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved
Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the
                                      web.

                              476 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

                            December 25, 2011 Sunday

HOPE FUND;
Orphaned himself, but reaching out;
Native of Tanzania wants to help children of Africa, yet has challenges of his
own in U.S.

BYLINE: Amber Batteiger

SECTION: Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 923 words


Although Elias Meshack escaped the day-to-day suffering he endured as an
orphaned refugee in Mozambique, he can't forget those he left behind.

That's why today, as a Jacksonville resident, he's adamant about helping other
orphans in similar circumstances, even as his family struggles to make ends
meet.

"I try to help the orphans because I see how my life was and how I grew up
suffering," Meshack said. "I don't want the other orphans to suffer."

Meshack, 32, was born in the Mishamo refugee settlement in Tanzania. After his
father disappeared and his mother died, he wandered from refugee camp to refugee
camp until 2001, when he settled into the Maratane Refugee Center in Mozambique
for a decade.

While Meshack and his family escaped to the United States in 2010, thousands of
refugees remain, including hundreds of orphans. Today the Maratane Refugee
Center, built for 5,500 refugees, is housing almost double that.

There are more than 59 million orphaned children in Africa. In Mozambique alone,
more than 2.1 million children are orphaned or separated from their families,
according to United Nations reports, many of them because of the AIDS epidemic
there.

CONCERNS AT HOME

Although Meshack desires to give the orphans as much as he can, his main focus
now is on supporting his family.

He works part-time preparing food at Native Sun Natural Foods Market on San Jose
Boulevard, making around $1,000 a month. His wife does not work because she
stays home to care for their three young children, Esther, 7, Suzana, 9, and a
son named after his father born earlier this year.

The family's food stamps were cut when Meshack began to work, but he is applying
to receive them again. The family also is behind on their $675 rent.

The family does not have health insurance, a particular issue because Meshack's
wife, Salima, is suffering complications from surgery she had 10 years ago in
Africa. Because the family cannot afford medical care, she is in constant pain.

Although Meshack said his family's needs come first, more than anything, he
wants to go to college. Already speaking seven languages, Meshack takes English
and Spanish language classes four nights a week at Florida State College at
Jacksonville. Eventually, he wants to study sociology and political science with
the goal of helping his homeland.

"There is so much conflict, and I would like to be able to solve the problems
between the tribes," he said.

2 BROTHERS

Meshack said he is compelled to help others because of the suffering he endured
since birth.

In 1982, when Meshack was 3 years old, Burundi military men knocked on the
family's door and seized Meshack's father. To this day, Meshack does not know
whether his father is dead or alive.

After his father's disappearance, his mother remarried and in 1989 gave birth to
Meshack's half-brother, Jonathan. Three months after Jonathan's birth, their
mother died. Meshack became the baby's sole caregiver and they fled the camp.

After wandering for 12 years, the brothers settled in the Maratane camp.

Bahai missionaries helped pay for Meshack to attend primary school and high
school, but he didn't have enough money to continue on to college.

Instead he started his own small business selling flowers, beans, shoes and
small fish.

WORK WITH ORPHANS

His success in that enterprise brought him to the attention of World Relief, an
international relief and development agency, which was also impressed by the
time and money he dedicated to taking care of orphans.

The agency asked him to help set up a microfinance program, in which women got
small loans and were taught how to use sewing machines, grow vegetables and
raise chickens, enabling them to start their own businesses.

Meshack continued to work with orphans, an endeavor through which he met his
wife, who was helping take care of the children.

"When I met my wife in the camp, she was suffering," Meshack said. "She said,
'I'm alone, my parents both died.' I told her, 'I'm alone too, we can love each
other. We can be together.' "

After years of suffering in the camp, including living through an attempt to
murder his family, Meshack decided they had to flee for their safety. Starting
in 2003, he tried to gain refugee status, allowing him to come to North America,
but it wasn't until 2010 that he finally succeeded in obtaining permission to
emigrate to Jacksonville.

"When the plane touched down in the United States, I thanked God," Meshack said.
"God is great. My dream is now alive. I need to now help people in Africa."

Meshack said he and his family are very happy here and hope to stay in
Jacksonville for as long as they can. Next year he's hoping to sponsor 20
orphans who want to go to school, which would cost about $800.

"I'm crying every day," Meshack said. "What can I do to help them?"

Despite his difficulties, Meshack said he is blessed. He credits his positive
outlook on life to his Christian faith, a faith passed down from his parents.

"I am happy because the Bible says don't be sad," Meshack said. "You need to be
happy every day. When you get a problem, you need to pray to God. That is why I
am always satisfied and smiling every day."

ABOUT THE HOPE FUND

The program: The Hope Fund is an annual holiday giving program in which every
cent donated goes directly to Northeast Florida residents in need.

The partners: The Florida Times-Union, The University of North Florida, HandsOn
Jacksonville

The mission: Provide basic necessities for area residents experiencing hardships

The participants: About 800 clients

More information: hopefund.org, (904) 359-HOPE

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
Bob.Mack@jacksonville.com Elias Meshack with his family (from left): Esther, 7,
Suzana, 9, wife Salima Feruzi and son Meshack, 7 months.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 The Florida Times-Union

                              477 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                 Agencia de Informacao de Mocambique (English)

                            December 18, 2011 Sunday

U.S. Prepared to Help Fight Piracy

LENGTH: 362 words

DATELINE: Maputo


The United States is "ready and willing" to work with the Mozambican government
in fighting piracy in the Mozambique Channel.

Speaking in an interview with the Maputo daily "Noticias", after a three day
visit to Mozambique, the US Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for African
Affairs, Reuben Brigety, said that piracy "is a multinational challenge and thus
requires a multinational response".

He praised Mozambique's tripartite agreement with Tanzania and South Africa to
combat piracy, and said the US government "looks forward to more details of this
agreement so that we may also know in what way the American government can
help".

The tripartite arrangement authorises joint naval and air anti-piracy patrols in
Mozambique Channel.

As for the controversial US Africa Command (AFRICOM), Brigety defended its
creation, saying it sought to give the same attention to Africa as the US gives
to other regions.

The US administration saw AFRICOM as "a crucial instrument with which we can
work throughout the African continent on questions such as security and
protection".

Brigety is the person in the US government responsible for security matters in
sub-Saharan Africa. He considered AFRICOM an important security instrument "and
Africa is very important partner that can help us in this area".

Though he has not held direct discussions with SADC (Southern African
Development Community) as a whole, Brigety said he has been in dialogues with
individual SADC countries. He is keen to have "more open discussions with SADC
countries to know how we can help establish peace and stability, and see in what
way the SADC countries can promote peace and security elsewhere in Africa".

Asked about the flow of refugees from the Horn of Africa, many of whom pass
through Mozambique, often on their way to South Africa, Brigety said
"Mozambique, like other countries, has the responsibility to protect its borders
within the laws of international migration and to provide asylum to refugees
under the terms of international agreements. The U.S. government has also the
responsibility in working with the countries of the region and also Mozambique
in providing asylum to these refugees".

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              478 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Times (Kigali)

                           December 17, 2011 Saturday

U.S. Pledges to Support ICT in Schools

BYLINE: Fred Ndoli

LENGTH: 252 words


The US Ambassador to Rwanda, Donald Koran, has said his government plans to
support Information and Communication Technology (ICT) in the country's schools.

Koran made the disclosure during his visit at Teacher's Training Centre at
Groupe Scolaire de la Salle in Gicumbi District.

"Education is very important; we, at the embassy, are designing ways on how to
support the education sector especially in Information Technology (ICT) in
schools," said Koran.

Koran later met with the Northern Province Governor, Aime Bosenibamwe, with whom
they discussed various issues concerning development strides in the district.

The district authorities also raised the issue of erosion control as one of the
biggest challenges in the district.

According to the district mayor, Bonane Nyangezi, Gicumbi, is mostly hilly
making it hard to control the soil erosion yet the district's economic capacity
is still low.

The US Ambassador also visited Congolese refugees at Gihembe camp where he
toured several refugees' projects. Among the projects were poultry farming and
craft project.

The embassy promised to support the poultry farming which is run by 250 women
refugees.

Koran added that the embassy will help train the association members in project
management to empower them manage their projects.

Koran was also briefed on the problems facing the refugees by the UNHCR
officials.

They said sanitation and HIV/Aids was among their challenges at the camp.

According to the camp managers, about 317 refugees are infected with the virus.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              479 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 16, 2011 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

A Family Escapes Refugee Camps in Africa and Finds Itself in Debt in America

BYLINE: By MARVIN ANDERSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1526 words


Ndayishimiye Gabo sat motionless in a damp Bronx apartment with peeling
wallpaper, leaking faucets and dilapidated floors, staring at an eviction notice
in one hand and a court order in the other.

After years of living in a refugee camp in his native country, Tanzania, Mr.
Gabo thought his perpetual displacement and fear had come to an end after his
young family was granted asylum in the United States.

But here he was, on the verge of losing the only sanctuary he and his family
have known since coming to America as refugees in 2007. A judge has given him
until Saturday to pay nearly $6,000 in back rent, or be evicted.

''We came here thinking all of our dreams would come true,'' Mr. Gabo said,
''but I find that a contradiction. Where can we find peace?''

Mr. Gabo, 31, was born in Tanzania, after his father, a Hutu, and his mother, a
Tutsi, fled in 1972 to that neighboring country from their native Burundi, in
East Africa, where brutal ethnic wars between Hutus and Tutsis had erupted.
United Nations officials reported that more than 200,000 people died in the
genocide the Tutsis waged against the Hutus. (A conflict between the two groups
also resulted in the Rwandan genocide, in 1994.)

His parents ended up in a Tanzanian refugee camp, where Mr. Gabo was born. The
family returned to Burundi in 1991, but tensions between the two ethnic groups
flared again, Mr. Gabo said. In 1999, while he was at a school in the coastal
town of Rumonge in Burundi, his mother died in a bombing in the nearby city
where she worked, he said.

''She was everything to me,'' Mr. Gabo said. ''I'm missing something now.''

His father and siblings were forced into a displacement camp in Burundi in 2000,
but Mr. Gabo fled east, to Tanzania. He initially lived with his father's
sister, a Burundian, but Tanzanian government officials forced them into a
refugee camp, he said.

''I was born there, but I wasn't considered Tanzanian because my parents were
born in Burundi,'' he said. ''I felt like I didn't belong anywhere.''

He and his aunt were placed in a camp of 1,600 people living in mud houses with
grass rooftops. Mr. Gabo, who had studied math and physics, became a teacher's
assistant in the camp, which teemed with a panoply of diverse groups, including
Arabs, Congolese and Ethiopians. (Later, he said, when he came to New York, the
diversity in the city reminded him of the camp's.)

Mr. Gabo met Niyonsaba Francine, a Burundian, in the camp in 2003, and they
married the next year. Two of their children, Shima Don Chris, now 6, and Joyce
Niyubuntu, now 4, were born there. (In Burundian culture, children might not
share a surname with either parent.) But the lives of Mr. Gabo and his family
changed when they were given refugee status to resettle in the United States,
under an American initiative to aid Burundians displaced in Tanzania during the
war. The family arrived in New York in 2007 and began eking out a living.

With the aid of public assistance, Mr. Gabo and his family moved into a
one-bedroom apartment in the Wakefield section of the Bronx. They received food
stamps and got help with day care. Ms. Francine, who speaks only Swahili and
Kirundi began English-language classes. Soon, another child was born: Angel
Gabo, now 10 months old.

Mr. Gabo, who began working as a forklift operator soon after he arrived in the
city, left that job to become a teaching assistant in a G.E.D. program through
the city's Human Resources Administration. He worked 35 hours a week and
received medical benefits and food stamps, in addition to $180 a month, but he
said it was not nearly enough to meet his family's needs.

''I helped people with their dreams when I couldn't live mine,'' he said. ''I
need education to support my family.''

Mr. Gabo decided to attend the Technical Career Institute in Manhattan to pursue
a degree in electronic engineering. But his class schedule was so demanding, he
said, that this year, when he missed a recertification interview to renew his
family's benefits, the Human Resources Administration cut off rental assistance,
plunging the family into debt. The family fell several months behind in rent,
which was $1,021 a month. Then, because of an overdue electricity bill, which
totaled $794 in September, Consolidated Edison threatened to shut off the
family's power, he said.

Desperate for help, Ms. Francine, 28, found Catholic Charities Archdiocese of
New York after searching online, talking to friends and walking into agencies'
offices. With the help of a case manager, the family had a hearing in May before
the city's Office of Administrative Trials and Hearings, which ruled that all of
the benefits should be reinstated, Mr. Gabo said. But the family was still
waiting six months later for the full restoration of its benefits, he said,
adding that all his family was now receiving were medical benefits and food
stamps.

''They want us to eat, but they don't want us to stay in this house,'' Mr. Gabo
said. ''They don't care about my family.''

An H.R.A. spokeswoman, Carmen Boon, said she was prohibited from discussing
specific cases because of privacy laws and could not comment on why the family
was not receiving all of its reinstated benefits.

Mirela Jaubelli, the family's case manager at Catholic Charities, one of the
seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, used $450
from the fund to help the family pay its electric bill and drew $237 from the
fund to buy the family MetroCards to travel to meetings with the H.R.A. She said
she had expected the family's public assistance to kick in again well before
Nov. 1, and that ''only bureaucracy'' was keeping the family from getting back
its rental assistance.

While the family remains in limbo, Mr. Gabo said he remained hopeful. He said
that Shima, whose name means ''Thank you, God,'' was attending Public School
103, and that the priority now was not only education, but also reuniting with
family members still in Tanzanian camps.

''One day I'll get a chance to forget the tears which come from me,'' Mr. Gabo
said. ''I'll live my dream.''

HOW TO HELP: Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be
sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y.
11245. All donations are acknowledged; special letters are not possible. A check
intended for a particular agency should be written to and mailed to the agency,
noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. BROOKLYN COMMUNITY SERVICES 285
Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217 CATHOLIC CHARITIES ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW
YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND
QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East
22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East
22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281
Park Avenue South New York, N.Y. 10010 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street
Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100 Donations may be made with a
credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or at nytimes.com /neediest. To find out
how to donate stock, call (212) 556- 1137 or fax (212) 556-1979. In recognition
of its 100th anniversary and to thank its loyal donors for their generosity over
the years, the fund will send gifts to individuals who donate $250 or more to
the 2011-12 campaign, beginning Nov. 6, while supplies last. Gifts of $250 -
$499: a boxed set of note cards, valued at $15.95. Gifts of $500 - $999: a 2012
journal valued at $39.99. Gifts of $1,000 and over: a $50 gift card from The New
York Times Store. If you do not wish to receive a gift with your donation,
please drop us a note along with your check. No agents or solicitors are
authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The
New York Times Company pays all administrative costs of the fund, so every
dollar donated to the fund goes directly to serve those in need. The New York
Times Neediest Cases Fund has been recognized by the Internal Revenue Service as
a not-for-profit public charity under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue
Code. Contributions to the fund are tax-deductible to the extent permitted by
law. Please note that for federal income tax purposes, you may be eligible to
deduct as a charitable contribution the amount of your contribution less the
value of the gift as indicated above. Federal Identification Number: 13-6066063.
A copy of the Neediest Cases Fund's latest annual financial report may be
obtained, upon request, from the fund or from the New York State Attorney
General's Charities Bureau, Attn: FOIL Officer, 120 Broadway, New York, N.Y.
10271. To delay may mean to forget.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 30, 2011



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
An article on Nov. 16 about a family of African immigrants that faced eviction
from their home in the Bronx and received help from Catholic Charities
Archdiocese of New York, a beneficiary of The New York Times Neediest Cases
Fund, described incorrectly Kirundi, which one of the immigrants speaks. Kirundi
is its own language, not a ''Burundian dialect.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Niyonsaba Francine, her husband, Ndayishimiye Gabo, and their
three children, Angel Gabo, 10 months, Shima Don Chris, 6, and Joyce Niyubuntu,
4, in their shared bedroom in the Bronx. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES) GRAPHIC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company

                              480 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                     The Press Democrat, Santa Rosa, Calif.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 10, 2011 Monday

A refugee in America: Hope vs. reality

BYLINE: Jeremy Hay, The Press Democrat, Santa Rosa, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 621 words


Oct. 10--Hadish Khassay sat on a yellow couch in his aunt's Santa Rosa apartment
on Northcoast Street with a blue, glass cross around his neck. Things are not as
he'd hoped they would be.

In July 2010, Khassay's US Airways flight landed in Oakland, a night, a day and
a dream away from the Shimelba refugee camp in barren northern Ethiopia.

He fled his homeland, Eritrea, when he was 15. His country was warring with its
neighbor, Ethiopia, and was going to force him to take up a gun. So, on foot and
risking execution by Eritrean soldiers, he escaped.

In Ethiopia he farmed goats for $17 a month for eight years, defying a
government ban on refugees working. He married, but his wife, Lemet, and son,
Robel, now aged 4, lived a day's drive away.

So, again, Khassay left for another country. He became one of Santa Rosa's
160,000 residents, and one of 11 Eritrean refugees that the nonprofit social
services agency Catholic Charities has resettled in Sonoma County since 2008.

He planned a new life, expecting he would bring his family to join him.

Now 24, he's come to like America. "Freedom," he said, a pebble of English in a
stream of his native Tigrinya.

But today he is struggling. And the two-time refugee wants to return to life as
a refugee in Africa.

It's hard here, he said. He can't find work, mostly because he doesn't speak
English, though he is trying tol earn.

Khassay had a friend with him for an interview, an Eritrean who has been in
America since 1990 and speaks English well. His name is Medhin; he didn't want
his last name used.

"He thought everything was going to be OK. He would find a job and take care of
his family, but it's not working out," Medhin said.

"He can't go back to Eritrea, he doesn't want to go into the army," Mehdin said.
"He wants to go to Ethiopia. But if he had a job, he would stay."

Khassay jiggled a key chain that had an image of Joseph on one side and of Mary
on the other. He smiled, but he held his head in one hand, too.

He said he owns nothing but the clothes Catholic Charities gave him when he
arrived here.

"He has his cross," Medhin said. Khassay touched it with slender fingers.

Catholic Charities helped him get the government benefits that now have expired,
leaving him broke. The agency has enrolled him in a job search and training
program. It also helped him apply for a residency permit and a driver's license,
which he just obtained.

Sometimes he drives his sister's old Toyota, though he can't afford the gas.
That, plus the fact that he doesn't have money for buses, makes it tough to get
to the English classes he signed up to take.

Still, he goes as often as he can and when he submits resumes, he lists those
classes, and volunteer work he does at Goodwill Industries, as experience.

"They haven't called back," Mehdin said.

Khassay brought his visitor Ethiopian tea. It was hot and sweet, served in
short, cut-crystal glasses. He said he hasn't talked to Lemet for eight months.
He doesn't know where she lives now.

He sleeps in four houses around town, sharing time with family, relatives and
friends because it's too crowded in any one place for too long.

The bicycle that he once rode around town was stolen.

He knows the name, "Elsie Allen," that belongs to the high school near where his
English as a Second Language class is held. If he improves, they will send him
on to Santa Rosa Junior College for more advanced studies.

"He's doing okay, before he used to say nothing," said Mehdin.

He looks like many other young American men with loose jeans, a white, "Atlanta,
Georgia" t-shirt," and white tennis shoes.

___ (c)2011 The Press Democrat (Santa Rosa, Calif.) Visit The Press Democrat
(Santa Rosa, Calif.) at www.pressdemocrat.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111010-UR-A-refugee-in-America-Hope-vs-reality-1010-20111010

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: UR


                                 Copyright 2011

                              481 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (Nairobi)

                             October 9, 2011 Sunday

Powerful Criminal Networks Hold Country Hostage [opinion]

BYLINE: Rasna Warah

LENGTH: 718  words


Kenyans are seen to have a "business-as-usual" approach to corruption, but a new
report published by the International Peace Institute shows that our extreme
tolerance of impunity is having devastating consequences and is, in fact,
undermining the State's legitimacy.

Endemic corruption and powerful transnational criminal networks are
"white-anting" state institutions and public confidence in them, says the
report. These "termites" are hollowing out State institutions, thereby rendering
them impotent.

Peter Gastrow, the author of the report titled "Termites at Work: Transnational
Organised Crime and State Erosion in Kenya", says that rampant corruption within
the Police Force, the Judiciary and other State institutions has allowed
criminals to penetrate political institutions.

Powerful criminal networks with links to Parliament currently pose a big threat
to the creation of laws, policies and regulations that could help curb money
laundering and drug trafficking.

Governments that lack the capacity or the political will to counter such
penetration, he says, run the risk of becoming "captured states" - that is,
states whose government structures have become captives of uncontrolled
corruption.

If this goes unchecked, he warns, the criminal networks could penetrate the East
African Community and cause havoc in neighbouring countries.

This could result in the kind of lawlessness that has turned countries such as
Mexico and Colombia into murderous, violent places where drug lords and
criminals hold organs of the State hostage, a scenario that is just too horrific
to imagine.

The following highlights from the report are most worrying:

Increased volumes of heroin from Pakistan and Iran, and cocaine from Latin
America, are being transmitted through Kenya. At least 10 major international
drug trafficking networks, headed mainly by West Africans, but also involving
Kenyans, are responsible for the bulk of the cocaine and heroin trafficked into
and through the country.

Drug money is increasingly being used to attain positions of influence,
particularly in politics.

Militia groups in Somalia have started to profit from drugs trafficked into
Kenya. The port of Kismayu in southern Somalia is used to import drugs into
Kenya.

Kenya is the biggest market for counterfeit goods from India and China.

A Kenyan cartel comprising current and former MPs, activists linked to
politicians - including a prominent businesswoman - and customs personnel are
working with a network of Chinese, Somali and Pakistani criminals to smuggle
drugs, counterfeits and other illicit commodities through the port of Mombasa.

During the first nine months of 2010, at least 10 small arms seizures were
reported on Garissa road en route to Nairobi from Somalia. The UN's Dadaab
refugee camp in northern Kenya is sometimes used as a storage facility by arms
smugglers.

Corrupt staff at the Dadaab refugee camp are involved in human trafficking and
the sale of "slots" for refugees wishing to migrate to South Africa, Europe and
the United States.Eastleigh in Nairobi is East Africa's hub for the smuggling of
migrants and the trafficking of women and children. About 50 girls, mainly from
Somalia are trafficked every week from north-eastern Kenya to Nairobi.

In 2010, a staggering $2.1 billion found its way into the economy without the
government being able to explain its source.

Funds laundered from Kenya sometimes end up with al Shabaab in Somalia.

If no action is taken, there is a huge risk that Kenya's State institutions will
be eaten up from the inside by criminal elements. As a result, the legitimacy of
the State will be undermined.

Kenya will crumble as criminals will be at the helm, making laws to suit
themselves and bribing their way through murder, drug and human trafficking,
sale of illicit arms and a whole range of criminal activities.

The report recognises that the current reforms in the Judiciary could restore
the public's confidence in government institutions.

However, these reforms must be accompanied by far-reaching steps to counter
crime, corruption and impunity, including the appointment of special police
taskforces to investigate these crimes and taking drastic action against those
involved in corruption.

Unfortunately, the government appears unwilling - for whatever reason - to take
these steps.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                     Copyright 2011 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              482 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (Nairobi)

                          September 14, 2011 Wednesday

Kibaki Heads to New York for UN General Assembly

BYLINE: Pps

LENGTH: 400  words


President Kibaki is expected to travel to the United States to attend the 66th
Session of United Nations General Assembly on Friday.

During the meeting to be held in New York, President Kibaki will brief fellow
Heads of State on the outcome of last week's summit on the Horn of Africa
crisis.

The President will be seeking international support for implementation of the
"Nairobi strategy" adopted for enhanced partnership to eradicate drought
emergencies in the Horn of Africa. The summit came up with short term and long
term solutions to address the perennial challenges of drought and famine in the
region.

He will also be calling for international assistance to find a permanent
solution to the crisis in Somalia that has led to an unprecedented influx of
refugees into Kenya that is hosting over 500,000 Somalia refugees. The UN has
convened a special high-level summit on Somalia next week.

The theme of this year's Assembly is "The role of mediation in the settlement of
disputes by peaceful means." This is a pertinent issue to Kenya due to the role
the country has played in brokering peace in the region.

The 66th Session of UNGA will among other issues seek to address the prevention
and control of non-communicable diseases worldwide, with a particular focus on
developmental challenges, social and economic impacts for developing countries.

The UN summit will also discuss ways of tackling four prominent non communicable
diseases including cardiovascular diseases, cancers, chronic respiratory
diseases and diabetes - and the common risk factors of tobacco use, alcohol
abuse, unhealthy diet, physical inactivity and environmental carcinogens.

Other key issues to be examined during the Session include desertification, land
degradation and drought in the context of sustainable development apart from
commemorating the 10th Anniversary of the Durban Declaration.

The UN General Assembly is one of the five principal organs of the United
Nations and the only one in which all member nations have equal representation.

Its powers are to oversee the budget of the United Nations, appoint the
non-permanent members to the Security Council, receive reports from other parts
of the United Nations and make recommendations in the form of General Assembly
Resolutions.

The plane carrying President Kibaki and his entourage is expected to depart Jomo
Kenyatta International Airport shortly before midnight.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                     Copyright 2011 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              483 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Analyst

                             August 19, 2011 Friday

Thousands Spared Deportation

LENGTH: 825  words


When the United Nations  refugee agency, UNHCR, took thousands of Liberian
refugees across the Atlantic to the U.S. to save them from marauding bands of
criminals claiming to be  Freedom Fighters , little did most of them know that
their welcome in America would be  temporary  and dependent on conditions back
home in Liberia   unless though, they  regularize their stay .  Sure enough the
conditions back home  have improved faster than most could  regularize their
stay , and so began a marathon of presidential pardons and extensions of stay,
beginning with President George Bush.  Now, President Barack Obama has provided
yet another pardon and extension   thanks to the US  appreciation of the Sirleaf
Administration s recovery agenda. The Analyst, reports.

US President Barack Obama, Tuesday this week, ordered that the stay of most
Liberians currently residing in the United States by 18 months under the
Provisions of the Deferred Enforced Departure (DED).

Most of those benefiting from the extension have been living in the US shortly
following the breakout of the Liberian civil war more than 20 years ago.

A US State Department statement said the "temporary protected status (PTS)" of
the Liberians, which President Obama extended in 2009, was due to expire on
September 30, 2011.

Had the president not extended the status, US immigration would have embarked
upon the deportation of the reported 5,000 Liberians currently on PTS in the US.

The protective status began in 1991 as Liberians fled a protracted civil war
that ended in 2003. The protected status ended in 2007 as political conditions
improved in Liberia, but Obama's predecessor, President George W. Bush, granted
the first extension from October 1, 2007.

Obama's extension order to Homeland Security Secretary, Janet Napolitano,
directed her to  withhold return orders for 18 months for all eligible Liberians
.

President Obama s order gave no reasons for the extension of the DED, but
observers, reading the lips of US congressional leaders, believe it is on
humanitarian grounds and on the Obama Administration s appreciation of the
Sirleaf Administration s recovery agenda and the challenges facing it.

Commenting on the extension of the DED, the Chairman of the Senate Judicial
Committee, Patrick Leahy, who is a democrat from Vermont, thanked President
Obama for the gesture, noting that it was appropriate in light of the strides
the Sirleaf Administration was making to reconstruct Liberia.

Congressman Leahy, who is also chairman of the Senate Appropriations
Subcommittee on State Department and Foreign Operations, noted further:

I commend the President for extending deferred enforced departure for Liberians,
and for doing so well ahead of the September 30 expiration of their current
status. I joined Senator Jack Reed in asking President Obama to take this step
and appreciate the President's timely action.  Liberia continues to make great
strides under the leadership of the freely elected President Ellen Johnson
Sirleaf, with whom I was pleased to meet again recently in Washington. Liberia
faces continuing challenges in rebuilding after a long civil war, while doing
its best to offer protection to refugees from neighboring Cote d'Ivoire. America
can support Liberia by enabling Liberians who are lawfully here to remain here
while they assist their families and communities from abroad.

Also commenting on the extension of the DED, Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota
said of the more than 30,000 Liberians residing in Minnesota, an estimated 1,000
were currently living under DED status as refugees from the devastating civil
war in Liberia.

He noted that the extension has effectively spared them of deportation.

Liberians are our neighbors, our co-workers, and important members of our
communities,  Klobuchar said.   This decision to extend DED status will help
ensure that those Liberians who are here legally can continue to call Minnesota
home.

In June, Klobuchar, Senator Al Franken and 14 other senators sent a letter to
President Obama urging him to take swift action to extend DED status for
eligible Liberians living legally in the United  States.

Earlier this year, Klobuchar, Franken, and six senators introduced legislation
that would allow Liberians who have been residing in the United States legally
under DED status to apply for permanent residency, which would qualify them to
obtain the  green card .

In 1989, a civil war in Liberia displaced over half the country s population,
and many Liberians sought refuge in the United States.

Since 1991, these refugees have been granted Temporary Protected Status (TPS) or
DED status by both Democratic and Republican administrations.

Eliminating DED status and preventing Liberians from applying for permanent
residence status would force thousands of Liberian refugees to return to Liberia
and could easily overwhelm and reverse the advances the country has made in
recent years, Senator Klobuchar said.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              484 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Citizen (Dar es Salaam)

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday

The World Letting Down Suffering Somalians [column]

BYLINE: Mobhare Matinyi

LENGTH: 798  words


Although the world is experiencing all kinds of turmoil in the Americas, Europe,
the Middle East, Asia, and Africa even in Tanzania where the government is
struggling with energy crisis none of these crises is anywhere close to what is
happening in Somalia.

The Horn of Africa and part of East Africa are experiencing the worst drought in
60 years, sending thousands of Somalis into the neighbouring countries of
Djibouti, Ethiopia and Kenya, which themselves are struggling with the same
problem. More than 12 million people are facing starvation in this part of
Africa.

To make matters worse, the notorious Al Shabaab denies there is famine in
Somalia and is preventing international aid agencies from helping those in need.
The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) complains that Al Shabaab is
stopping aid workers from reaching 2.2 million out of 3.7 million Somalis at
risk of dying of hunger.

The Somalis who are fleeing to Kenya are facing an extraordinary ordeal at the
hands of assailants who are raping women, beating up men or even killing them,
robbing them of everything from water to food to money before the refugees can
reach the Dadaab refugee camp in Kenya. Dadaab, which has a capacity of 90,000
refugees, is currently housing almost half-a-million refugees.

To add salt to the wound, the Kenyan authorities don't want more Somalis in
Kenya. Shockingly, Kenya's President, Mwai Kibaki, on Monday told the visiting
wife of the United States Vice President, Jill Biden, that, the Somali refugee
population was placing Kenya under extreme pressure and burdening its resources.

President Kibaki echoed what his Prime Minister, Raila Odinga, told the British
Minister for International Development, Andrew Mitchell, a few days ago: that
Kenya would like to see anti-hunger programs set up on the Somali side of the
border rather than inside Kenya.

According to the Associated Press, Kenyan government is currently feeding about
800,000 of its own people while the WFP is feeding 1.6 million, all inside
Kenya, but the UN is expecting this number to reach 3.2 million by mid-August,
and that's too scary for Kenya. However, ordinary Kenyans who live on less than
$2 a day on average, have contributed $1.3 million, while corporate donations to
the "Kenyans for Kenya" campaign has collected at least another $4 million to
save their fellow Kenyans.

On Tuesday, US President Barack Obama approved $105 million for humanitarian
efforts to fight this disaster, which has already killed 29,000 children under
the age of five in just 90 days in southern Somalia alone, according to US
estimates. The UN reports that at least 640,000 are acutely malnourished,
meaning the death toll is likely to climb.

When Mitchell met Raila, he announced $83 million in emergency aid to assist
Somali victims in Kenya and Ethiopia. The British initial aid is far below what
the US has already contributed, $565 million, in aid to Somalia, Ethiopia and
Kenya, according to Voice of America, and Washington is still urging other
governments to act immediately.

The World Bank has promised to provide more than $500 million, while another UN
agency, the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), is coordinating
international efforts to raise $1.6 billion. The African Union, which in June
donated $500,000 worth of non-food items to help the Somali refugees, is also
urging African nations to contribute.

The amount of food needed in Somalia is enormous, making the recently announced
aid from Tanzania, 300 tonnes of maize, almost as small as a peanut, but still
far better than 50 tonnes of food from Turkey. This week for example, the WFP
sent nine airlifts full of 800 tonnes of high-energy biscuits to Kenya, but
these are just enough to feed 1.6 million refugees for a day.

It is important to note, however, that according to the US Congressional
Research Service, the US alone is spending about $6.2 billion monthly in Iraq
and $6.7 billion in Afghanistan, almost $13 billion per month, which is five
times the amount of money the UN is looking for to handle the whole crisis,
about $2.5 billion.

The annual defence budget for Nato members in Europe is $300 billion, still less
than a half of the US budget, according to the recently retired US Secretary of
Defence, Roberts Gates, while the cost of bombing Libya for humanitarian reasons
is expected to reach $750 million by the end of 2011 for the US alone.

How can the world spend so much money on military missions but struggle so much
to help the Somalis, including children, who are dying of a natural cause? Even
the oil-rich Arab nations are nowhere to be heard!

The whole world has let down the Somalis. It's too little, too late, and too
slow. This is deplorable, awful and very unfortunate.

The writer is a consultant based in Washington, DC.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              485 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (Nairobi)

                           August 10, 2011 Wednesday

U.S. Lauds Nation's Move to Host Somali Refugees

BYLINE: Kevin Kelley in New York

LENGTH: 259  words


A US State Department official on Tuesday praised Kenya for sheltering hundreds
of thousands of Somali refugees at the Dadaab refugee camp.

Noting that the 420,000 inhabitants of the camps amount to about one percent of
Kenya's entire population, Assistant Secretary of State Eric Schwartz said the
United States is "very appreciative" of the Kenyan Government's "willingness to
continue to provide first asylum to this population".

"We are doing everything we can to assist the government in its efforts to
continue to stay the course on this," Mr Schwartz added in a briefing for
reporters following his return from a visit to Kenya with Dr Jill Biden, wife of
the US vice president.

The US Agency for International Development announced on Monday it is providing
an additional $105 million in assistance to Kenya and other countries in the
Horn where drought is causing food shortages or outright famine.

That brings the total US relief effort in the Horn to $560 million -- far more
than is being supplied by other donors.

Gayle Smith, a special assistant to President Obama, said at Tuesday's briefing
that the US is "aggressively reaching out to other countries because this is of
a scale that we certainly can't do it alone. We need other countries to step up
with us."

The United Nations reports that its appeal for aid to the hungry in the Horn has
drawn less than half the needed donations. An additional $1.4 billion is
required, the UN says.

USAid is meanwhile warning of worsening drought conditions in the coming months,
particularly in northern Kenya.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                     Copyright 2011 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              486 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (Nairobi)

                             August 9, 2011 Tuesday

Kibaki Says Refugee Problem a Concern

LENGTH: 418  words


President Kibaki has called on the international community to appreciate Kenya's
predicament and the pressure the nation was experiencing by hosting over half a
million Somali refugees.

Appealing to the international community to swiftly intervene in the current
drought ravaging in the horn of Africa region, President Kibaki stated that
Somali refugees need to be settled inside their country and be given food and
other forms of support they may require.

He said Kenya would offer support to the setting up of feeding camps inside
Somalia.

The President, who made the remarks Monday at his Harambee House Office when he
held discussions with US Vice-President's wife Dr Jill Biden, noted that such an
arrangement would make things much easier and convenient for all actors involved
in the unfolding calamity.

The Head of State categorically stated that the refugees entry to Kenya is not
helping the situation neither is it a long-term solution.

Noting that the drought affected a population estimated at 10 million people,
President Kibaki appreciated the support extended by the United States of
America in efforts to cushion the suffering people and to normalise the
situation.

He emphasised that long term measures needed to be explored to avert recurrence
of such tragedies.

The Head of State reiterated Kenya's commitment to hosting a concerted
international conference to discuss critical issues of concern in the horn of
Africa region especially the current drought as well as peace and security.

On her part, Dr Biden noted with concern that the situation on the ground was
grave and pledged support of the US government in instituting measures to
mitigate the severe human suffering.

She affirmed that there was urgent need to implement both short term and long
term measures so as to address situation sustainably.

In short term, Dr Biden noted there was need to increase the volume of food aid,
reduce the influx of more refugees and support be extended in Somali's
territory.

Dr Biden, who also visited Kenya Agricultural Research Institute, pledged
support to strengthen the agricultural sector in he region through provision of
farm inputs and modern research.

She also promised support in restocking programmes to farmers who lost their
herds to the devastating drought.

Present were Prime Minister Raila Odinga, Special Programmes minister Esther
Murugi, Head of Public Service and Secretary to the Cabinet Francis Muthaura,
permanent secretaries from line ministries and other senior government
officials.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                     Copyright 2011 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              487 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (Nairobi)

                             August 8, 2011 Monday

Jill Biden Visits the Hungry in Kenya

BYLINE: Aggrey Mutambo

LENGTH: 349  words


The wife to US Vice President Joe Biden, Jill, arrived in Kenya on Monday
morning to assess the famine crisis in the Horn of Africa.

Dr Biden is leading a delegation of US officials to a tour of Dadaab, the
world's most populous refugee camp, before meeting top Kenyan government
officials including Agriculture Minister Sally Kosgey and President Kibaki.

The officials included US Agency for International Development (Usaid)
administrator Raj Shah, Assistant Secretary of State Eric Schwarts and Special
Assistant to the President, Gayle Smith.The White House said in a statement that
the team would discuss the famine within the scope of expanding US aid to help
the affected regions and people.

"Dr Biden's trip will underscore the United States' commitment to working with
the governments and people of the region, and the international community, to
assist the people of the Horn of Africa," said the statement.

The horn of Africa is currently facing one of the worst droughts in history with
an estimated 12.4 million people facing the risk of starvation, according to the
UN. Some of the most affected countries are Kenya, Somalia and Ethiopia.

The United Nations has already declared famine in parts of Somalia and predicts
that food crisis could still engulf more regions in the war-torn country.
Thousands of Somalis are fleeing the famine and seeking refuge in Kenya and
Ethiopia. But they are not helping the situation as these countries already have
a burden of their own.

In Kenya, about 3.5 million people in the northern part of the country face the
risk of starvation. In the last 10 days, private citizens, corporate bodies have
raised over Sh500 million through the KenyansforKenya initiative, to feed the
hungry.

Dr Biden, who is visiting Kenya for the second time, was also expected to visit
Kenya's Agricultural research Institute (KARI). The institution is charged with
developing drought-resistant crops which could be used in arid regions.The US
under the Obama Administration launched the Feed the Future programme that
targets to invest in tackling the root causes of hunger.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                     Copyright 2011 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              488 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Times of Zambia (Ndola)

                            July 20, 2011 Wednesday

U.S. Envoy Hails Angolan Repatrition Programme

LENGTH: 301  words


UNITED States ambassador Mark Storella yesterday witnessed the voluntary
repatriation of Angolan refugees and commended the Zambian Government for
hosting refugees for more than 40 years.

In the continued repatriation of Angolan refuges, 45 left yesterday aboard a
Zambia Air Force (ZAF) plane making a total of 231 refugees who have returned
home since June 16, 2011 when the exercise recommenced.

Maheba Refugee camp in Solwezi has 9,000 Angolan refugees willing to be
repatriated and Mr Storella urged the Angolans to take advantage while
assistance was available.

He said the refugees who had accepted to go back to their country had made a
courageous move to go and help in peace building in their home country.

He said the Zambian Government had done a good job to host the refugees and it
was time for them to go back and re-build their lives and the country.

He said the Angolan government should also help its people with the
re-integration exercise so that they could easily fit in the society.

The envoy also said local integration would be considered for some Angolan
refugees who considered Zambia as their home.

Head of UNHCR Solwezi field office Sonoko Sunayama said that the US government
had provided funding to assist women refugees.

Ms Sunayama said refugees willingly going back to their country should be
commended because returning home after so many years was a difficult choice.

She said that between 2003 and 2007, 74,000 refugees were assisted to return
home and another 2,500 refugees went home between 2007 and 2010 while another
25,000 were still in Zambia.

She said the refugees were only taken to Luena province in Angola because of
lack of resources and that the exercise would end in September.

Meanwhile, Mr Storella also launched an internet café for refugees at Meheba
refugee camp.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              489 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             Nairobi Star (Nairobi)

                              July 18, 2011 Monday

Mugo Asks U.S. for Aid to Attend to Health of Refugees

BYLINE: Nelly Gitau

LENGTH: 54  words


The influx of refugees into the country is posing a major health risk.

Public Health Minister Beth Mugo says the refugees must be vaccinated against
preventable diseases.

Mugo has also urged visiting US Secretary for Health and Human Services Kathleen
Sebelius to ensure her government releases more aid to support the refugees.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              490 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             Nairobi Star (Nairobi)

                             July 16, 2011 Saturday

U.S. to Partner With Country in Somali Border Security

BYLINE: Isaac Ongiri

LENGTH: 276  words


THE US government has pledged to partner with Kenya to ensure security threats
arising from opening of the Somali border are addressed. US Deputy Assistant
Secretary Bureau of Population, Refugees and Migration Reuben Brigety said the
American government shares Kenya's concerns over the security threats but
promised that all will be done to support the security systems.

Brigety, who is on a tour of the region, also announced that the US government
will release an initial Sh445million ($5 million) to the United Nations High
Commission for Refugees to support humanitarian efforts in the Horn of Africa.
"The US is already programming $63 million (Sh5.6bn) for refugee support in the
region," Brigety said.

The US official who was accompanied by ambassador to Kenya Scott Gration was
addressing journalists at the US embassy in Nairobi.

He said his government recognised Kenya's hospitality in handling the Somali
crisis."I am happy with the announcements and commitments made by the Prime
Minister Raila Odinga that the government will open the borders with Somali for
purposes of addressing the emergency situation just arising," Brigety said. He
said that situation is worsening with more than 20,000 refugees entering Kenya
every month through the porous borders.

Further, Brigety said the US supports the creation of more refugee camps in the
Northern Kenya to assist in containing the influx. He said more camps will
enable the UNHCR to account for the refugees entering the country and help the
government to physically identify them. America, he said was also keen on
ensuring the stability of Somalia to restore permanent political and economic
order.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              491 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             Nairobi Star (Nairobi)

                              July 15, 2011 Friday

U.S. Donates 400 Million Shillings to UNHRC Food Appeal

BYLINE: Oliver Mwenda

LENGTH: 60  words


The US government has donated 400 million shillings for the drought stricken
refugees at the Daadab camp following an appeal by the united Nations High
commissioner for refugees.

The funds will be used to feed thousands of refugees at the Daadab refugee camp.
UNHCR has appealed for 136.3 million dollars to help prevent the humanitarian
catastrophe from worsening.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              492 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             Nairobi Star (Nairobi)

                              July 15, 2011 Friday

Government And Local NGO's Locked Out of Food Distribution in Daadab

BYLINE: Oliver Mwenda

LENGTH: 72  words


Only the World Food Program will be allowed to distribute food to refugees at
the Daadab camp.

Reuben Brigety, the US Deputy assistant secretary bureau of population, refugees
and migration says this is aimed at ensuring funds meant for the relief effort
are well spent.

The US has donated 400 million shillings for drought stricken refugees at the
Daadab camp following an appeal by the united Nations High commissioner for
refugees.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              493 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             Nairobi Star (Nairobi)

                            July 13, 2011 Wednesday

Sex And the City Star Kristin Davis Cries for Country

BYLINE: Grace Kerongo

LENGTH: 246  words


Sex And The City star Kristin Davis was left choked up during an emotional
interview about her time at the Dadaab refugee camp in Kenya.

The 46-year-old, best known for her role as Charlotte York Goldenblatt in the US
show, unsuccessfully tried to stop herself from sobbing as she spoke about her
trip as an Oxfam ambassador.

Speaking to BBC Breakfast's Bill Turnbull and Sian Williams on Monday morning
the actress dabbed her eyes as she described her journey to the refugee camp
where some 380,000 are sheltered after fleeing drought in neighbouring Somalia.

The star had been traveling in Tanzania with Oxfam at the weekend but decided to
visit the Dadaab camp after hearing of the number of people arriving there -
some 1,300 a day according to the charity.

Kristin explained: "We were really unprepared for how shocking it is. I think
the main thing that struck me was how desperate their situation was that they
left.

You would never come to this place if you weren't in absolute desperate need
because it is in the middle of nowhere, it's extremely windy, hot, there's
nothing there but the camp. "And the camp is so overfilled that a lot of these
people, who are mostly women and children, have walked 20 days they have lost
family members along the way... I might cry," Kristin said as her voice cracked.

But she was unable to contain her tears she explained the plight of one disabled
Somali woman who had lost two of her five children and her husband on the way to
the camp.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              494 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             Nairobi Star (Nairobi)

                              July 11, 2011 Monday

American Actress Visits Dadaab

LENGTH: 230  words


American actress Kristin Davis has been visiting the Dadaab refugee camp in
Kenya with Oxfam, to see the devastating impact of the drought. More than 10
million people are facing desperate food shortages in the worst food crisis of
the 21 century.

"I feel shocked to see what these people have gone through. I met women who have
walked for 20 days through the desert, with children dying on the way, only to
arrive at a camp where there is hardly any food and water to go around.

We must not allow this to happen in this day and age. Anything that you can give
will help people who have absolutely nothing," she said.

1,300 people a day are arriving in Dadaab, fleeing the drought and war in
Somalia. The world's largest refugee complex is severely overcrowded and now
shelters 380,000 people - four times its intended capacity - with many more
expected over the next few months. Many refugees arrive malnourished and in
desperate need of water, food and health care.

The Sex and the City star was travelling in Tanzania with the charity as part of
her long term commitment as an Oxfam Ambassador.

When she heard about the scale of the disaster in the Horn of Africa, she
decided to extend her trip and visit one of the worst hit areas.

Oxfam's East Africa food crisis appeal will help provide life-saving water, food
and sanitation to over 3 million people in Kenya, Ethiopia and Somalia.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              495 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       Financial Times (London, England)

                             July 2, 2011 Saturday
                                London Edition 1

How to give it: Luol Deng

BYLINE: Angus Watson

SECTION: FT WEEKEND SUPPLEMENT - LIFE & ARTS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 436 words


Luol Deng, 26, is a basketball player for Great Britain and the Chicago Bulls.
His family came to Britain to escape war in Sudan. As well as supporting
projects through his Luol Deng Foundation, (www.luoldeng.org) he is an
ambassador for School-Home Support, which helps children in difficult
circumstances to stay in school. (www.schoolhomesupport. org.uk).

How did your childhood affect your views on charity? We didn't have much in
Sudan, so we worked together as a family and made the best of it. We were, and
still are, very grateful - my parents taught me to always be appreciative - and
I feel blessed to be in the position I am today. I give now because I want to,
but I do sometimes feel it's a duty to give back to people in a situation that I
was in, and could be in still.

When did you make your first substantial donation? I'm not sure. My main
donations now go towards my own foundation, where the team does a great job of
advising me how best to use my money for people in need in the US, Africa and
UK.  Which cause do you feel most passionately about? I feel passionate about
giving back to people in general, but if I had to pick one, it would be sports
and education. When I came to the UK it was tough because I couldn't understand
the language, but, through playing sports at school in London, I soon learnt to
speak English, made friends and even got a sense of hope. I think sport can do
so many positive things for a variety of people, especially when tied into
education, so that's the focus of the foundation. We're currently working with
the UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, to build 10 schools and five basketball courts
in remote areas and refugee camps in Africa. For the same reason I've become an
ambassador for School-Home Support (SHS). It's an inspiring cause, helping the
most vulnerable children. My foundation is linking with them to provide
basketball lessons.  Do sports stars have a duty to charity? I think so, and
many sports stars have their own charities so it seems like the majority of them
feel it is right to give back. Do you ensure your donations are used
effectively? Yes. I believe it is important to know exactly where your donation
is going and how it will benefit people. I think that if they can't see where
their money is going, people tend to veer away from giving to charity.

What percentage of income should we give to charity? It's about personal
preference. Some people like giving and others don't. However, I do believe that
all people should help others in any way possible and this isn't always by
giving money.

Interview by Angus Watson

howtogiveit@ft.com

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 The Financial Times Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved
Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the
                                      web.

                              496 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Observer (Banjul)

                             June 23, 2011 Thursday

U.S. Ambassador Visits SJFFC

BYLINE: Yusupha Bojang

LENGTH: 344  words

DATELINE: Foni


The ambassador of the United States of America to The Gambia, Her Excellency
Pamela White, accompanied by staff of the embassy, recently visited Saint
Joseph's Family Farms Centre (SJFFC) in Bwiam, Foni Kansala District of the West
Coast Region.

The visit, being part of the US Embassy's countrywide tour of their project
sites and beneficiaries, was meant to accord first hand information on the
various projects sponsored by the Embassy in the country over the years.

Welcoming the US ambassador and delegation, the Saint Joseph's programme
manager, Yankuba Manneh, acknowledged the contributions and the positive impact
of 'The Ambassador's Fund for Refugees' on the lives and livelihoods of rural
communities especially the refugees in the West Coast Region. The Embassy he
added, did rehabilitate local infrastructural entities in refugee hosting
communities along the border stretch of the West Coast Region since 2007, and
immensely contributed to the provision of adequate, safe and clean drinking
water to over 481 families.

He thanked the US Embassy on behalf of the refugee hosting communities for
contributing immensely to the socio-economic advancement of the refugee hosting
communities and the people of The Gambia.

For her part, Ambassador White, commended the people of Bwiam for the warm
welcome accorded to her and delegation. She stated that The Gambia is one of the
most stable, caring, peaceful and refugee tolerant countries in Africa and
thanked the community of Foni and the country at large for the peaceful
co-existence and for working together with the refugees. She also commended
SJFFC for the successful implementation of the projects being sponsored by the
Embassy.

Speaking on behalf of the refugees, Siaka Bojang and Amie Badjie, both thanked
the US Embassy, through Saint Joseph's Family Farms Centre, for supporting them
with various projects; such as tie and dye, soap making, the rehabilitation of
hand pumps, provision of seeds, among others. They expressed their delight with
the people of The Gambia for giving them accommodation.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              497 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                            New Democrat (Monrovia)

                              May 31, 2011 Tuesday

Ingredients for Instability

LENGTH: 459  words


President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, in outlining her achievements and obstacles
since she became the first woman President on the African continent, told
Harvard University graduates last week about the many problems that threaten
Liberia's stability.

She said the influx of returnees, along with Liberians deported from the US and
persistent instability within the region, erodes and hinders stability.

"To build a nation requires unremitting tasks. Nevertheless, the challenges for
sustained Liberian growth and development remain both awesome and performable.
Our stability is eroded by the thousands of returnees from U.S. prisons and
regional refugee camps, the bulk of whom are lacking in technical skills," she
said.

The President also touched on the regional factors if instability.

"Our peace is threatened by furious neighborhood tensions where we live: two of
our three neighbors have either experienced, or narrowly avoided, civil war in
the past year, and we patiently host their refugees, since not even a decade ago
it was they who hosted so many of us."

President Sirleaf underscored what she said are the problems responsible for the
slow pace of progress since she assumed office, declaring:

"Implementation of our economic development agenda is constrained not by funding
alone, but also by slow project execution and low absorptive capacity. Plans to
enhance performance in governance move slower than desired due to long-standing
institutional decay and a corrupted value system of dishonesty and dependency.
The development of infrastructure is hindered by the high capital cost of
restoration, engendered by the lack of maintenance, and exacerbated by wanton
destruction covering more than two decades of conflict.

"Yet, today, we are proud that young Liberian children are back in school,
preparing themselves to play a productive role in the new Liberian society. Our
seven-year olds do not hear guns and do not have to run. They can smile again.

"With multivariate tasks and transformations in tow, we can say with confidence
that we have moved our war-torn nation from turmoil to peace, from disaster to
development, from disarray to hope. And in this we are proud to note that it was
the Liberian women who fought the final battle for peace, who came, their number
and conviction the only things greater than their diversity, to demonstrate for
the end to our civil war, and to rededicate their ardent energies to the
peaceful pursuit of progress. I am, therefore, proud to stand before you, as
humbled by their resolute sacrifices, to symbolize also the aspirations and
expectations of Liberian women, African women and, I dare to say, women
worldwide. They will give the time, they will fight the fight, and they will
gain the victory."

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              498 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                              May 24, 2011 Tuesday

Canada's refugee system is a dead end for terrorists;
The perception is an easy conduit for extremists. The reality is surveillance or
jail, says Andy Lamey

BYLINE: ANDY LAMEY

SECTION: COMMENT; BORDER SECURITY; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 881 words


Everyone knows that Canada's refugee system is an easy conduit for terrorists.
For years, we've been reading articles that describe the refugee system as "the
weakest security link," as one Canadian newspaper headline put it. This view is
equally prevalent south of the border. According to Robert Leiken, a migration
and security expert at the Center for the National Interest in Washington,
"virtually everyone who has looked at the Canadian [refugee] system thinks it is
the most relaxed, considerably more so than Europe."

But is this view really true? I had occasion to examine terrorist refugee claims
in Canada while writing a book about refugee issues, and was surprised by how
little evidence there is to support the conventional view. If anything, the
opposite is closer to the truth. Terrorists who file refugee claims in Canada
have an overwhelming capture rate, to the point that Canada's refugee system may
be North America's least-appreciated anti-terrorism deterrent.

I examined refugee claims filed in Canada between 1985 and 2005 by individuals
affiliated with political extremism - either as perpetrators, fundraisers or
enablers - at the time of their claim. I did not count cases of individuals who
filed refugee claims years before becoming extremists. While such cases should
not be dismissed, they represent a separate problem from those who try to use
Canada's asylum system as a covert means of entering North America.

By this method, 26 political extremists tried to enter Canada by pretending to
be refugees between the mid-1980s and the middle of the century's first decade.
Clearly, the phenomenon of political extremists posing as victims of persecution
is a real one. However, the crucial question is, what happens next? How
successful are terrorist refugee claimants compared to other types of
terrorists? Consider the case of Essam Marzouk, who may be the closest thing to
a successful terrorist refugee, or one who later executed a terror plan. Mr.
Marzouk was a member of al-Jihad, an Egyptian organization that later merged
with al-Qaeda, when he filed a refugee claim in Vancouver in 1993.

Mr. Marzouk, whose claim was eventually accepted, was later alleged to have
trained the terrorists who bombed two U.S. embassies in East Africa in 1998. If
he was involved, that would make him the only terrorist to have been involved in
a successful operation after filing a Canadian refugee claim.

Yet if he did train the bombers, he had to have left North America to do so.
Because while he was in Canada, he was either in jail or under surveillance by
the Canadian Security and Intelligence Service, frustrating whatever terrorist
designs he had while here. In other words, Mr. Marzouk did not use the refugee
system to execute a terrorist operation.

In this way, he is typical of terrorists who file refugee claims in Canada.
Twenty-four of the 26 cases were people taken into custody, while two fled the
country after coming under indictment or being subject to "confrontational
interviews" by CSIS. In none of the 26 instances was someone plotting a
terrorist attack able to use a refugee claim as a means of avoiding detection.

Indeed, by far the most common outcome for terrorists who enter Canada's refugee
system is to become the subject of a security certificate. Security certificates
are by far Canada's most powerful national security tool. They are also
controversial, due to the extraordinary measures they allow the state to employ,
including the use of evidence that is withheld from the accused. But what's not
in doubt is the effectiveness of the certificates as counterterrorism tools. As
of 2009, 15 of the 26 terrorist asylum claimants had been dealt with through the
use of certificates. In each case, whatever threat they represented was
instantly neutralized.

The overwhelming capture rate of terrorists who make refugee claims is in
noticeable contrast to terrorist operations that do not involve asylum fraud.
The 9/11 hijackers, for example, used tourist and student visas. The largest
terrorist attack in Canadian history was the 1985 Air India bombing, in which
the alleged or convicted perpetrators were long-time Canadian citizens.

The evidence suggests that, in fact, terrorists who attempt to enter North
America through Canada's refugee system are making a huge mistake, one that
dramatically increases their chance of being caught. Refugee claimants have much
higher disclosure standards than tourist and student travellers (who do not have
to provide fingerprints and life histories) and far fewer legal protections than
Canadian citizens (who cannot be subject to security certificates). For a terror
chief's purposes, phony refugee claimants involve the worst of both worlds.

If the alternative were terrorists not coming to North America at all, we should
obviously hope no extremist ever makes another refugee claim. But the more
likely alternative is that terrorists will continue to arrive. Given this
reality, we may actually prefer that they come in through Canada's refugee
system. Because it has long been the roach motel of terror plans: Every
terrorist who enters it has been stopped dead in his tracks.

Andy Lamey is the author of Frontier Justice: The Global Refugee Crisis and What
to Do About It.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              499 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                        The International Herald Tribune

                              May 17, 2011 Tuesday

Europe torn over Arab Spring influx;
Politicus

BYLINE: BY JOHN VINOCUR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1098 words

DATELINE: LONDON

ABSTRACT

While European leaders may not say so publicly, there is great concern over how
to deal with refugees fleeing turmoil in North Africa.

FULL TEXT

When the leaders of the Group of 8 meet next week - among them, Barack Obama,
David Cameron, Angela Merkel and Nicolas Sarkozy - one of their official
concerns will be supporting attempts to make democracy emerge in some kind of
recognizable form from the Arab revolts in countries like Tunisia and Libya.

Unofficially, and perhaps even without public mention at the summit meeting in
the French resort town of Deauville, that helping hand also means providing
sufficient economic incentive to hold off a wave of Arab migration toward
Europe. The potential human flood gets described by the apocalyptically minded
as ''biblical.''

Of course, no one in Deauville would talk in those terms. But a European
diplomat has acknowledged that there is more than a tacit link between
sustaining the process of change in North Africa and avoiding a flow of refugees
to the four European Union countries (including Italy) that make up the G-8
alongside the United States, Canada, Japan and Russia.

Sounding irritated, António Guterres, the U.N. high commissioner for refugees,
has spoken of a ''grudging '' response from Europe, described as largely
interested in ''how to keep out'' people trying to seek shelter on the other
side of the Mediterranean.

But reality doesn't sit still. What is changing now is that none of the heads of
the four big Western countries at Deauville in 2011 can avoid immigration as a
domestic/international political issue that carries with it the emotional
vote-getting-or-vote-losing volatility of war or taxes.

For example:  Mr. Obama last week traveled to near the Mexican border to insist
he's cracking down hard on illegal immigration. The New York Times wrote that
this was the president's fifth immigration-linked event in the last four weeks.

In parallel, signs are emerging of left-of-center politicians' acknowledgment of
the legitimacy of European voters' concerns about how their lives are affected
by the failed integration of many Muslim immigrants.

Here was Ségolène Royal, who ran as the French Socialist Party's candidate
against Mr. Sarkozy in 2007 and seeks its 2012 presidential nomination, saying
last week that no one entering France because of the Arab world's turmoil should
think they're ''destined'' to remain in the country.

Why? Because Ms. Royal obviously regards that saying ''no'' on the issue means
votes in an eventual party primary. She argues that exceptions must not be made
to the principle of rejecting all illegal immigration. This sounds like support
for efforts by some European Union member governments to tighten the open
border-passage provisions of the community's internal controls.

To boot, Ms. Royal was reported telling residents of French immigrant
neighborhoods, ''Stop complaining.''

In Britain, Mr. Cameron's Conservative Party, which has a hard-edged take on
immigration, fared very well in local elections in England a couple of weeks ago
in spite of its austerity budgets and undistinguished economic results.

The prime minister had been attacked on immigration from inside his governing
coalition with the Liberal Democrats. Vince Cable, one of the party's cabinet
members, chastised Mr. Cameron for his pronouncement of the death of
multiculturalism in Britain and his more recent promise to sharply cut
non-European immigration.

The cabinet minister accused the prime minister of ''inflaming'' Islamic
extremism in the process. But the voting went badly for the Lib Dems - not the
Conservatives.

Mr. Cameron explained he was fighting the idea that ''concern about immigration
is somehow racist.'' Saying nothing, he argued, created room for the real bigots
in extremist parties.

He spoke of immigrants who ''on occasion'' were unwilling to integrate, and who
created ''discomfort and disjointedness in some neighborhoods.''

That's a long way from the language of being invaded, swamped or made to feel an
alien in your own country. But Mr. Cameron insisted at the same time that it
would be ''untruthful'' and ''unfair'' not to address a real problem.

A reflexive equation linking concern about immigration with reactionary thinking
has been dulled in Europe, but not without embarrassment. In a clumsy attempt to
cozy up to its wavering white working-class constituency, the German Social
Democratic Party leadership voted last month not to expel  Thilo Sarrazin, a
party member who wrote a best seller, larded with genetics-based arguments,
designating Muslim immigrants as a drag on German society.

Yet for parts of the European left, a serious question exists about a way to
move closer to the immigration themes it once rejected as reflecting bigotry.

In France, how could the Socialist Party not consider them in a presidential
campaign landscape where both Nicolas Sarkozy and Marine Le Pen, the head of the
extreme right National Front, talk tough about immigration's downsides?

Recent polling by Harris Interactive provides the answer: 76 percent of the
French (including 62 percent of left-wing voters) think that immigrants don't
make sufficient effort to integrate into French society. Speaking for the
polling group, J.D. Levy told a French reporter that while the events of the
Arab Spring were presented positively by the media, ''most people were mainly
worried'' that they would mean ''even more potential immigrants.''

A strategy paper on how to win in 2012 drawn up by supporters of Dominique
Strauss-Kahn, the strongest Socialist Party candidate before his arrest on
sexual assault charges in New York, suggests a successful campaign must include
a focus on the value of work and the secular character of French society, while
emphasizing citizens' duties - a kind of nudge-nudge message to voters that the
party understands their worries about Muslim immigration.

To leap ahead of the nudge and wink stage, Gaullist party sources have told me
that Mr. Sarkozy no longer wants to talk of immigrants' integration but promote
their ''assimilation.''

That's always been a loaded word. Currently, it is used by Islamists in Britain
to paint Mr. Cameron's rejection of multiculturalism as an assimilation plan
robbing Muslim immigrants of their Islamic identity.

Surely, at Deauville there will be no desire on the part of the summiteers to
wade into such a contentious bog.

But there is the real likelihood that the summit meeting plays a role, even
unspoken, in accompanying a palpable change in the politics and discussion of
immigration and its intensifying impact.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 International Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

                              500 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            April 20, 2011 Wednesday

USA: US Contributes $1268 Million to the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees

LENGTH: 305  words

DATELINE: Washington


Washington, April 20 -- The U.S Department Of State has issued following press
release:

The United States is pleased to announce a contribution of $126.8 million toward
the 2011 operations of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
(UNHCR).

The contribution, funded through the State Department's Bureau of Population,
Refugees, and Migration, will support UNHCR's programs worldwide, including
refugee returns to such places as Afghanistan and the Sudan; local integration
and resettlement; and protection and life-saving assistance. U.S. funding
supports the provision of water, shelter, food, healthcare, and education to
refugees, internally displaced persons, and other persons under UNHCR's care and
protection in countries such as Iraq, Colombia, Thailand, Nepal, Pakistan, the
Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Kenya, and Rwanda.

The contribution will directly support UNHCR's Annual and Supplementary Program
activities as indicated below.

Africa

$ 39.9 million

Asia and Pacific

$ 23.0 million

Europe

$ 3.8 million

Global Operations

$ 7.9 million

Middle East

$ 49.4 million

Western Hemisphere

$ 2.8 million

TOTAL

$ 126.8 million

With this contribution, the United States will have provided more than $285
million toward UNHCR's 2011 operations so far this year.

We note that this year is the 60th anniversary of the Refugee Convention and the
50th anniversary of the Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness.

We salute the vital and courageous work of UNHCR, its many NGO partners, and
refugee hosting countries in providing protection to vulnerable people around
the world.

For more information please Visit: www.state.g Published by HT Syndication with
permission from Right Vision News. For any query with respect to this article or
any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved
