
                              501 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                             April 19, 2011 Tuesday

USA: US Contributes $1268 Million to the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees

LENGTH: 305  words

DATELINE: Washington


Washington, April 19 -- The U.S Department Of State has issued following press
release:

The United States is pleased to announce a contribution of $126.8 million toward
the 2011 operations of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
(UNHCR).

The contribution, funded through the State Department's Bureau of Population,
Refugees, and Migration, will support UNHCR's programs worldwide, including
refugee returns to such places as Afghanistan and the Sudan; local integration
and resettlement; and protection and life-saving assistance. U.S. funding
supports the provision of water, shelter, food, healthcare, and education to
refugees, internally displaced persons, and other persons under UNHCR's care and
protection in countries such as Iraq, Colombia, Thailand, Nepal, Pakistan, the
Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Kenya, and Rwanda.

The contribution will directly support UNHCR's Annual and Supplementary Program
activities as indicated below.

Africa

$ 39.9 million

Asia and Pacific

$ 23.0 million

Europe

$ 3.8 million

Global Operations

$ 7.9 million

Middle East

$ 49.4 million

Western Hemisphere

$ 2.8 million

TOTAL

$ 126.8 million

With this contribution, the United States will have provided more than $285
million toward UNHCR's 2011 operations so far this year.

We note that this year is the 60th anniversary of the Refugee Convention and the
50th anniversary of the Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness.

We salute the vital and courageous work of UNHCR, its many NGO partners, and
refugee hosting countries in providing protection to vulnerable people around
the world.

For more information please Visit: www.state.g Published by HT Syndication with
permission from Right Vision News. For any query with respect to this article or
any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              502 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (Nairobi)

                             April 17, 2011 Sunday

U.S. Calls for Action On Refugees' Woes

LENGTH: 184  words

DATELINE: Nairobi


The US has identified overcrowding and security concerns, including rape,
banditry and shooting as major problems at both Dadaab and Kakuma refugee camps.

A State Department human rights report also cited the persecution of Muslim
converts to Christianity, community pressure against opponents of female genital
mutilation, forced marriage, particularly of young Sudanese and Somali girls,
and family objections to out-of-clan marriage as other major problems that need
to be addressed.

According to the report, the department was disappointed that even though the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the Internal Security ministry
and their Immigration counterparts agreed to increase police presence at all
refugee camps, the deal remained unsigned as at the end of last year.

It also accused law enforcement officers of sexually molesting women at various
camps.

"In March, Human Rights Watch conducted 102 interviews regarding sexual violence
in the Dadaab refugee camps. In 46 of the cases, police were accused of
gang-raping women in the camps or on their way to the camps," read the report.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                     Copyright 2011 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              503 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                            The Namibian (Windhoek)

                            March 23, 2011 Wednesday

Fraud Suspected in Refugee Seekers

BYLINE: Catherine Sasman

LENGTH: 510  words


Passport fraud is suspected in an apparent sudden surge of Namibians seeking
refugee status in Canada, The Namibian was reliably informed.

A report in a Canadian newspaper, Toronto Sun, said that more than 400 Namibians
have sought refugee status in Canada, which has prompted suspicion of an
"African alien smuggling ring".

It went on to say that officers of the Canada Border Services Agency said that
as many as 10 to 15 Namibians at some nights arrive at the Pearson International
Airport to file for refugee status.

So far this month, the newspaper said, there has been 103 refugee claimants.

A source in Namibia told The Namibian that "some people" are at work providing
fraudulent Namibian passports.

He also said that the problem is much bigger than what the figures from the
Toronto Sun suggests.

"This is a blot on the name of Namibia," said the source, preferring anonymity,
arguing that Namibians, who do not require visas to enter Canada, could be
punished for the fraudulent activities of what appears to be the work of a
syndicate.

The source said steps are being taken to clamp down on the fraudulent activity.

The Canadian newspaper said most of the so-called Namibians are arriving in
Canada from Paris and other European cities on Air Canada and Alitalia flights.

Airport officials there are reportedly suspecting that smugglers are paid to
coach Namibians on what to tell the Canadian authorities when they arrive.

These Namibians reportedly allege that they are fleeing "traditional issues"
that include violence against lesbians, female genital mutilation and forced
marriages to older men.

The Commissioner of Refugees in the Ministry of Home Affairs and Immigration,
Nkrumah Mushelenga, questioned the report, and described the claims of the
so-called refugee seekers as questionable.

Mushelenga said the ministry is consulting with all the necessary stakeholders
on the matter, adding that investigations are in full swing.

Namrights executive director Phil ya Nangoloh warned Namibians not to become
victims of human trafficking syndicates that lure them away with promises of
jobs or other offers that sound too good to be true.

"They must report it to the Police or to Namrights," advised ya Nangoloh.

Ya Nangoloh said while human trafficking and gender-based violence are on the
increase in Namibia, the reasons proffered by the so-called Namibian refugee
seekers seem improbable.

"These are just excuses by those who are trafficking people to get unsuspecting
victims to countries like Canada," proposed ya Nangoloh.

There was a former case of a Namibian woman seeking refugee status in Canada who
claimed that she was a member of the Caprivi Liberation Army.

"She only made up this story to look appealing to the Canadian authorities for
refugee status," said ya Nangoloh. "These are lame excuses used for human
trafficking," he suggested.

Quoting a US State Department report, the Toronto Sun wrote that Namibia is a
"source, transit, and destination country for children trafficked for purposes
of forced labour and commercial sexual exploitation".

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              504 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       Financial Times (London, England)

                          February 23, 2011 Wednesday
                                London Edition 3

Nations unite in condemnation

BYLINE: Harvey Morris at the United Nations and Daniel Dombey in Washington

SECTION: MIDEAST UNREST; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 491 words



HIGHLIGHT: Reaction


The UN Security Council condemned Libya's violent crackdown, as the head of the
country's dissident diplomats in New York said he believed a genocide was under
way.

The Security Council, in a statement endorsed by all 15 members, expressed deep
regret at civilian deaths and called on the Libyan authorities to meet their
responsibilities towards the population. It came after the Arab League, which
includes Libya, took the lead in condemning Tripoli, denouncing crimes against
peaceful demonstrators, including the use of mercenaries, live ammunition and
heavy weapons.

US and European leaders also stepped up their criticism of Colonel Muammer
Gaddafi's regime after a speech in which he threatened renewed violence against
demonstrators. Ibrahim Dabbashi, number two at Libya's mission to the UN, said
he had received information that, following Col Gaddafi's speech "an attack on
the people started in the west of Libya". He added: "I think the genocide
started now in Libya."

The Security Council urged safe passage for humanitarian assistance, called on
the government to respect freedom of assembly and said those responsible for
attacks should be held accountable.

It also welcomed the statement by the Arab League, which had earlier announced
Libyan representatives would be barred from its meetings until the security of
the country's people was re-established.

Angela Merkel, German chancellor, described Col Gaddafi's speech as
"horrifying". She added that the Libyan leader had "basically declared war on
his own people" and said Germany would use "all diplomatic means to exert
pressure on Libya, including possible sanctions".

The White House said it was looking at a suggestion by Senator John Kerry to
reimpose US sanctions lifted during the Bush administration. But it stressed its
priority was stopping the violence.

"This bloodshed is completely unacceptable . . . The government in Libya bears
responsibility for what is occurring and must take action to end the violence,"
said Hillary Clinton, US secretary of state. William Hague, Britain's foreign
secretary, said: "We will do everything we can to make sure they are held
accountable for their actions."

Additional reporting by James Blitz in London and Quentin Peel in Berlin

UN agency makes refugee plea

The United Nations refugee agency appealed to Libya's neighbours in Europe and
north Africa not to turn back people fleeing the bloodshed as Italy's foreign
minister warned of "immigration of epochal dimensions", writes Giulia Segreti in
Rome.

The UN High Commissioner for Refugees said Italy was among the countries most
likely to receive people fleeing Libya, including Libyan nationals and refugees
from elsewhere in Africa.

"We are saying: 'Please, no pushbacks', " she said. "This is a time to show your
humanitarian spirit."

Franco Frattini, Italian foreign minister, said in Cairo: "We are worried about
. . . immigration of epochal dimensions towards the European Union."

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The Financial Times Limited
 All Rights Reserved - Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute
                          by email or post to the web.


                              505 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 12, 2010 Sunday

Egypt accused of being behind plight of Eritrean migrants in Sinai

LENGTH: 598 words


Excerpt from report in English by Eritrean opposition Awate.com website on 9
December

Eritrean refugees fleeing the abysmal situation at home have been escaping to
anywhere safe they could reach. Many leave the country without any plans about
their final destination and they start to plan once they are safely out of the
Eritrean borders, either Sudan or Ethiopia. Those who have relatives in the
West, immediately receive assistance and, depending on the money they get, they
walk through the Sahara [Desert], aiming to reach Europe or head south to other
places, targeting north America.

Out of the thousands of refugees who risk their lives, many have perished in the
Sahara Desert or drowned in the Mediterranean Sea. Others have disappeared in
the wilderness of Central America trying to enter the USA. Still, many others
have managed to enter and settle in north America or Europe.

The traditional refugee routes through Africa and Central America to Europe and
America are inhabited by pockets of Eritrean refugees on their way to one
destination or another. But the worst situation for refugees has been the route
to Israel, that crosses through Egyptian Sinai which has become a burial ground
for Eritrean refugees who are shot on the spot by Egyptian border police. Worse,
the route to Israel is operated by a cartel (the so-called [ethnic] "Bedouin")
that promises the refugees an escort to Israel, but then holds the refugees
hostage until their relatives send the ransom payment through their network in
Sudan, Egypt, Europe and the USA. The smugglers interview would-be refugees to
ascertain that they have relatives in the West who would bail them out before
they take the refugees. The Sinai area has become an example of degradation and
criminal activities under the eyes of the Egyptian security who know only to
shoot at refugees. There are many reports of refugees being raped by the
smugglers and others giving birth in transit in refugee trip which might take as
long as a year.

The cruelties befalling Eritrean refugees in Egypt have prompted Pope Benedict
XVI to denounce the "kidnapping of Eritrean migrants in Sinai".

Many of the Eritreans who are being held by so-called human traffickers have
been subjected to extreme forms of torture, including rape. [Passage omitted]

On 1 December, a group of human rights groups including Agenzia Habeshia,
EveryOne Group, Human Rights Concern Eritrea and Christian Solidarity Worldwide
sent an appeal letter to the EU, England, Italy, the UN and Egypt to intervene
on behalf of the Eritrean, Ethiopian, Somali and Sudanese refugees held hostage
by Egyptians in the Sinai Peninsula. To date, there has been no protest from the
Eritrean regime.

The Eritrean president, who sets the tone for the behaviour of the officials of
the ruling party, once told Eritrean students in South Africa that he doesn't
care whether they return to Eritrea or not. The ruling party treats those who
leave the country without its consent as unwanted dissidents who deserve
whatever ill-treatment they receive.

It is not surprising, then, that Egypt, facing withering criticism for its
inhumane treatment of refugees, always reaches out to Eritrean authorities for
"bilateral talks" to camouflage its cruelty to Eritrean refugees.

Several months ago, Fasil Ghebrselasie, the Eritrean regime's ambassador to
Egypt, gave carte blanche authority to Egyptian authorities to shoot Eritrean
refugees escaping through Egypt on their way to Israel and Europe. The Egyptians
have been doing just that. [Passage omitted]

Source: Awate.com website in English 9 Dec 10

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              506 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                        Lincoln Journal Star (Nebraska)

                            November 29, 2010 Monday

A small role in international drama;

BYLINE:

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 427 words


OUR VIEW (Lincoln Journal Star Editorial)

All Nebraskans should be aware of and take pride in the role their state has in
determining whether a new country is created in Africa. Nebraska is one of the
largest resettlement sites in the country for refugees from the war-torn nation
of Sudan. For that reason, Omaha was selected as one of three sites in the
country at which refugees from Southern Sudan will vote on whether to secede
from the north.

Stephen Hoth of the Sudanese Civil Society estimates there are 10,000 Sudanese
refugees living in Nebraska. Angela Gunther, coordinator for the Fusion Project,
estimates there are about 3,000 Sudanese refugees in Lincoln.

The voting process in Nebraska is part of a multination effort that includes
Sudan itself and seven other countries in addition to the United States. About 4
million Sudanese have been displaced by the 21-year war that has killed 2
million people.

Registration now is under way for the vote that will begin Jan. 9. As Maker
Benjamin of Khartoum, Sudan, told the Journal Star, the vote means that some
refugees must travel considerable distances in the United States to cast their
ballots.

The referendum was part of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement that brought an end
to the fighting in 2005. African countries, most notably Kenya, were
instrumental in negotiating the peace and helping to prepare for the referendum.

Those planning the vote estimate that 5.5 million southerners inside and outside
the country are eligible to vote. Sixty percent of those who register must vote
to secede in order for the vote to be valid. In addition to the United States
and Sudan, voting will take place in Ethiopia, Kenya, Uganda, Australia, Great
Britain, Canada and Egypt.

Most international observers expect Southern Sudan to vote to secede. Northern
Sudan is largely Arab and Muslim. Southern Sudan is largely Christian and
animist, and populated by sub-Saharan ethnic groups.

There are fears that violence will break out before the vote. Meanwhile, there
are reports of an upswing in violence in the Darfur region of Northern Sudan.

A major factor in continuing unrest is the question of future distribution of
oil revenue. A separate vote is scheduled in oil-producing region of Abyei on
whether it will join the north or the south.

The hope of the international community is that a vote to secede will make
permanent the peace that has existed for the past five years between the two
regions. A small part of that international drama that will play out in the next
few months is taking place here in Nebraska.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 Lincoln Journal Star
                              All Rights Reserved


                              507 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                        Lincoln Journal Star (Nebraska)

                           November 27, 2010 Saturday

A small role in international drama;

BYLINE:

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 437 words


OUR VIEW (Lincoln Journal Star Editorial)

All Nebraskans should be aware of and take pride in the role their state has in
determining whether or not a new country is created in Africa. Nebraska is one
of the largest resettlement sites in the country for refugees from the war-torn
country. For that reason, Omaha was selected as one of three sites in the
country at which refugees from Southern Sudan will vote on whether to secede
from the north.

Stephen Hoth of the Sudanese Civil Society estimates there are about 10,000
Sudanese refugees living in Nebraska. Angela Gunther, coordinator for the Fusion
Project, estimates there are about 3,000 Sudanese refugees in Lincoln.

The voting process in Nebraska is part of a multination effort that includes
Sudan itself and seven other countries in addition to the United States. About 4
million Sudanese have been displaced by the 21-year war that has killed 2
million people.

Registration is now under way for the vote that will begin Jan. 9. As Maker
Benjamin of Khartoum, Sudan, told the Journal Star, the vote means that some
refugees must travel considerable distances in the United States to cast their
ballots.

The referendum was part of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement that brought an end
to the fighting in 2005. African countries, most notably Kenya, were
instrumental in negotiating the peace and helping to prepare for the referendum.

Those planning the vote estimate that about 5.5 million southerners inside and
outside the country are eligible to vote. Sixty percent of those who register
must vote to secede in order for the vote to be valid. In addition to the United
States and Sudan, voting also will take place in Ethiopia, Kenya, Uganda,
Australia, Great Britain, Canada and Egypt.

Most international observers expect Southern Sudan to vote to secede. Northern
Sudan is largely Arab and Muslim. Southern Sudan is largely Christian and
animist, and populated by sub-Saharan ethnic groups.

There are fears that violence will break out before the vote. Meanwhile, there
are reports of an upswing in violence in the Darfur region of Northern Sudan.

A major factor in continuing unrest is the question of future distribution of
oil revenue. A separate vote is scheduled in the oil-producing region of Abyei
on whether it will join the north or the south.

The hope of the international community is that a vote to secede will make
permanent the peace that has existed for the past five years between the north
and south. A small part of the international drama that will play out in the
next few months is taking place at registration and voting sites here in
Nebraska.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 Lincoln Journal Star
                              All Rights Reserved


                              508 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                            November 14, 2010 Sunday
                                 FINAL Edition

'Global Beat' voices travel far;
Falmouth High students, a visiting chorus, Portland immigrants and refugees join
to raise money for relief efforts in Darfur, Haiti and Pakistan

BYLINE: MEREDITH GOAD Staff Writer

SECTION: MAINE/NEW ENGLAND; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 547 words

DATELINE: FALMOUTH


About 100 Falmouth High School students joined with a 60-member chorus from
Boston and a group of Portland immigrants and refugees Saturday to raise money
for international relief efforts in Darfur, Haiti and Pakistan.

A concert called ''Our Global Beat,'' featuring music from Latin America,
Africa, the Middle East and Asia - with U2 and John Lennon thrown in for good
measure - nearly filled the auditorium at the high school Saturday afternoon.

Out in the hallway, students sold Save Darfur T-shirts, baskets from Ghana and
other items to benefit organizations trying to make a difference in troubled
parts of the world.

The project started with the school's 100-member Key Club. Holly MacEwan, the
club's adviser, is the sister of Chris Eastburn, artistic director of The Family
Folk Chorale, a Boston-area chorus made up of singers and musicians of all ages.

The chorale, which had performed a benefit at the school a couple of years ago,
was working on a new multicultural program called ''Our Global Beat.''

''We got to talking, and I told him about the incredible immigrant and refugee
population here in Portland,'' MacEwan said, ''and what a beautiful, rich,
diverse community we have, and said it would be great to partner again and
involve that community.''

MacEwan and her students brought together the leaders of the local refugee
-immigrant community and asked for their support. Soon two local groups, the
Pihcintu International Children's Chorus and the Malika Traditional African
Dancers, were on board.

The Pihcintu International Children's Chorus is made up of 29 local children
from 13 countries. Many of them are first-generation immigrants from war-torn
areas or places that are experiencing political upheaval or famine.
(''Pihcintu'' is a Passamaquoddy word meaning: ''When he sings, his voice
carries far.'')

''There are a lot of Sudanese kids in Portland, and they have a very strong
affinity and emotional attachment to their home country,'' said Con Fullam,
producer for the chorus. ''And this being a fundraiser for Darfur made a huge
difference to them.''

Proceeds from the concert are going to The Fur Cultural Revival, which is a
Darfur community center in Maine; to Habitat for Humanity's work rebuilding
Haiti after the devastating Jan. 12 earthquake; and to UNICEF's flood relief
efforts in Pakistan, where an estimated 10 million children are still in urgent
need of humanitarian assistance.

Organizing the concert and gathering the information for the tables in the
hallway opened the eyes of a lot of the Falmouth High School students about
what's going on in the rest of the world.

Andrew Roukey, a 16-year-old sophomore, admits he didn't really know anything
about the genocide in Darfur until El-Fadel Arbab of The Fur Cultural Revival
came to the school to speak about his experiences.

''He talked to us about how his village was attacked,'' Roukey said. ''He hid in
a tree to get away.''

Roukey was so moved by El-Fadel Arbab's story that he wrote a letter to the
Enough Project, a group working to end genocide and crimes against humanity. He
also was quoted in another letter supporting a public speaking scholarship for
El-Fadel Arbab so he can spread his story further.


Staff Writer Meredith Goad can be contacted at 791-6332 or at:

mgoad@pressherald.com

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gordon Chibroski/Staff Photographer
Members of Malika, a Sudanese group, perform a traditional dance during ''Our
Global Beat,'' an international concert at Falmouth High School on Saturday.
Malika means ''angel'' in Swahili.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 MaineToday Media, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              509 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                Vanguard (Lagos)

                            October 29, 2010 Friday

Lottery - U.S. Targets 6,000 Local Immigrants

BYLINE: Vera Anyagafu

LENGTH: 158  words


United States Embassy in Nigeria has said that a total of about 6,000 immigrants
from Nigeria are being expected to emerge from the US DV 2012 visa lottery.

Briefing newsmen yesterday at the Public Affairs section of the United States
Consular-General, Broad street, Lagos, the consular officer, Boyette Charity,
explained that the target is based on the fact that Nigeria pulls the largest
number of players, followed by Ghana.

The United States of America, through the DV lottery which was mandated by the
US congress in 1995 to open up a rare avenue for legal migrations into the USA,
according to Boyette, has so far succeeded in encouraging the legal migration of
individuals from third world countries who ordinarily would not have the
pre-requisite to apply through the normal process.

He emphased, "the US Congress encourages diversity of people without sponsors,
jobs or bank accounts, but who possess a minimum of SSCE from all over the
world."

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              510 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 29, 2010 Wednesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Clean-Burning Cookstoves for Developing Countries

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 233 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Developing Nations to Get Clean-Burning Cookstoves'' (news article, Sept.
21):

It is great news that the United States will provide $50 million to help provide
clean-burning cookstoves for villages in Asia, Africa and South America. In
addition to the appalling health risks (1.9 million deaths a year due to
inhaling smoke from open fires) and the environmental devastation caused by
cutting down trees for fuel, women and girls risk rape and sexual violence when
they gather wood to cook or sell.

This is particularly true in refugee camps and other displaced settings, where
fuel is typically not provided to cook the food that displaced people receive.

In addition, girls may miss out on education opportunities as they spend hours
each day foraging for cooking fuel or stay at home to watch younger siblings as
their mothers collect firewood.

It is essential that the clean-burning stove initiative -- both the provision of
stoves and the development of local stove-making businesses -- reaches
humanitarian settings, as it will enhance the protection of refugee women and
girls immeasurably.

Sarah Costa New York, Sept. 21, 2010

The writer is executive director of the Women's Refugee Commission, which is
working with an international network of humanitarian agencies, inventors,
technical experts and donors to develop stoves and fuels for use in humanitarian
settings worldwide.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              511 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Observer (Banjul)

                           September 28, 2010 Tuesday

U.S. Embassy Signs US$25, 000 Funding Agreement With CFCO, SJFFC

BYLINE: Alieu Ceesay

LENGTH: 452  words


The United States Embassy in Banjul Monday signed a US$25, 000 refugee project
funding agreement with Children For Children Organization (CFCO) and Saint
Joseph Family Farm Centre (SJFFC) at the SJFF premises in Bwiam, Foni Kansala.

The project will be funded by the US government under the Bureau of Population,
Refugee and Migration, with US$10, 000 going to CFCO while $15, 000 will go to
SJFFC.The project, which is to be implemented by the two groups within 12
months, aims at assisting Gambian refugee-hosting communities with
capacity-building measures and the provision of infrastructure for use by
refugees fleeing SenegalÂ's Casamance region.

Cindy Cregg, the charge de Affairs at the US Embassy in Banjul signed on behalf
of the US government, while Nyima Sillah and Yankuba Manneh signed on behalf of
CFCO and SJFFC respectively. Speaking before the signing ceremony, Cregg said
the project is meant to provide a better living condition for the refugees like
any other person, and would go a long way in helping children and women. The
project, she went on, will further help in providing adequate potable drinking
water for the refugees from Casamance. She then thanked the communities for
hosting the refugees and expressed hope that the beneficiaries will use the fund
for its purpose.

For his part, Yankuba Manneh, programme coordinator of SJFFC thanked the US
Embassy for the project, adding that it shows how much love the US government
has for refugees. He disclosed that this is the third project they are
benefitting from the US Embassy. He explained that the fund will be used to
monitor the movement of refugees and the impact they have on the hosts,
providing potable drinking water among other things that the refugees need. He
then assured the embassy officials that the funds will be properly used, while
thanking them for the project.

Nyima Sillah, the administration and finance officer of CFCO also thanked the US
government through its Banjul embassy for the funding. She stated that the fund
will be used to help children refugees who are the future leaders. She described
the project as very timely and relevant, considering the living situation of
some refugees. She added that they are going to work hand-in-glove with
stakeholders in order to ensure the desired goals of the project are achieved.

Gibou M. Saidy, the programme assistant of CFCO said the project would focus on
refugees in Farafenni and Basse, explaining that those are places that refugees
easily pass to enter the country. Also present at the signing ceremony were Zack
Bailey and Ebrima Jaw Manneh, political and economic officer; and assistant
political and economic officer respectively at the US Banjul Embassy.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              512 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 24, 2010 Friday
                                Regional Edition

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 532 words


Pius D. Bannis is the Haiti field office director for the U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services. After the devastating earthquake in January , Bannis
helped hundreds of Haitian orphans find safety in the United States with new
families already in the adoption process. Before going to Haiti in 2008, he also
served as an asylum and refugee officer. Bannis was just named the 2010 Service
to America Medals Federal Employee of the Year.

What attracted you to public service?

I like being with and helping people. I am totally averse to sitting at a desk
all day writing policy memos and figuring out the best regulation. I like
dealing directly with the public. One of my greatest joys was being in Africa
talking to a family in a refugee camp, hearing their story and, after
interviewing them, saying, "I think you have been persecuted, and I am going to
grant you a refugee status in the United States. Get ready to travel." When you
see the sparkle in that person's eye, you realize you have done something that
really touches somebody's life.

How should leaders prepare for a crisis or the unexpected?

One thing I know for sure is that you can never prepare fully for a catastrophe
like this. At work, we had an emergency committee, and when the earthquake
happened, the book went through the window. It was a thick book that said what
each and every person was supposed to do in case we had such an emergency.
Members of the committee had died in their homes. We realized maybe we could not
find the people who were supposed to be wardens. Some of them were dead or
injured, and we could not follow that script.

Prepare as much as you can and have all the meetings and committees set up. But
in the end, there will be chaos, and controlling the chaos is what will save the
day. If you can't control the chaos, then you will have total disarray.

What did you learn about collaborating during times of crisis?

I have never seen such dedicated public servants from every government agency
working so flawlessly together. Everybody became involved. In a situation like
this, you can't be playing tough and saying, "This is my territory, and only I
can do that." Everybody does everything. I had a Secret Service guy answering
the phone for me; I had another reading e-mails. I had a guy from diplomatic
security helping me transport the kids to the airport. Some of them were
driving. That is not their job, but they came together in the emergency. They
were not going to let a kid die in the embassy compound.

I think we learned a lot from Katrina and the situations where people simply did
not come together and do what they had to do. I think that the Haiti situation
was quite different - people knew that everybody's eyes were focused on what
they were doing.

How would you describe your leadership approach in the aftermath of the
earthquake?

I am a command and control type. In that situation, I was. But if there is
nothing critical going on, I am more collaborative and will ask for ideas. I
believe that there is a time when you have to be command and control. You have
to act with authority and make people do what you believe is the right thing for
the time . . . for the right purpose.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              513 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                 The Free Lance-Star (Fredericksburg, Virginia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            August 28, 2010 Saturday

Refugee family has a home, now reaching out to others

BYLINE: Amy Umble, The Free Lance-Star, Fredericksburg, Va.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1542 words


Aug. 28--Longino Bizimana had just bought his first home here and wanted to
know: Was he allowed to plant a garden?

Bizimana had never owned property before. As a refugee in a Tanzanian camp, he
had use of a small plot of land. He made bricks from dirt and built his first
home in East Africa.

In the long, thin rectangular structure, he and his wife, Esther, started their
family.

Last November, the couple purchased a home in Spotsylvania County, with four
bedrooms and hardwood floors.

And this summer, he returned to Tanzania. This time, Bizimana wasn't looking for
help. He was offering it. He is treasurer of Living Hope Development, a group
dedicated to aiding widows and orphans in African refugee camps. Most members of
the group are refugees resettled in America.

This month, Bizimana helped lead a religious conference of Christians from
Burundi visiting from various states. The con-ference, held at Fredericksburg
Baptist Church, featured Swahili services, choirs and fellowship.

Those who know Bizimana say he's a perfect example of a refugee success story.

"I've referred to him numerous times as my hero," said the Rev. Stephen Weber,
pastor of Freedom Church in Spotsylvania. "He's embraced everything our country
offers to foreigners, to come in and fulfill a dream."

Bizimana just knows he's come a long way in almost 34 years.

LIFE IN THE CAMPS

He was born Sept. 6, 1976, to Burundian refugees in Rwanda. His parents fled
Burundi, a country in central Africa, amid civil wars in 1973.

In 1993, Burundi had a new president, and Rwanda was experiencing its own
conflicts. Bizimana's family returned to their homeland. But three months later,
war broke out again. Rebels flooded the provinces. Burundians started dressing
in several layers of clothes, knowing they would have to flee, with no time to
gather possessions.

The rebels killed Bizimana's mother. He couldn't find his father. He stayed long
enough to bury his mother, then fled to Congo. He was 17 years old and
completely alone.

He stayed with some Congolese for a few months, finding a job on a farm. Then,
the United Nations High Commission for Refugees started a camp there.

When Bizimana arrived in the camp, he saw "so many people, floods and floods of
people."

It was hard to get help. Sometimes, clothes were distributed, but randomly so
that a man might end up with a child's dress. And there was never enough food.

Bizimana stayed for three years, then decided to return home. In Burundi, he saw
rebels roaming the country.

"I thought, 'These are the people who killed my mother? How can I stay here?'"

This time, he headed for Tanzania. He knew what life would be like in the camp,
so Bizimana first stayed with Tanzanians. He worked on a farm for two months.
This was illegal, and every day he worried about getting arrested. But the
clothes he'd fled with three years earlier were tattered. And he knew he
couldn't depend on a new clothing in the camp.

After two months, Bizimana bought some clothes and food and headed for the camp.
He didn't particularly want to go. But he didn't want to stay in Tanzania
illegally either.

There, Bizimana did odd jobs and saved his money. He bought a lot of shoes,
which he sold at a kiosk in the camp. He also worked as a security guard.

He also took English and seminary courses.

GROWING A FAMILY

Even with so much going on, Bizimana married his neighbor's granddaughter,
Esther, in 1996. They met in the camp. Her parents had fled Burundi in 1972.

The young couple started a family, with baby Diane in 2000. Edison followed in
2002 and Erick in 2005.

In 2006, Bizimana finished his religious studies. That year, the couple learned
about refugee resettlement.

Since 1973, the goal for Burundians was simply to return to their country. Many
died in camps, waiting for Burundi to be safe.

Around 2005, the United States started making Burundians a priority group for
resettlement. After three decades, many in the international community decided
it was time to offer these refugees a new life.

A pastor in the camp was resettled in America, so Bizimana took over leadership
of the Tanzanian Assembly of God congregation. Soon after, Bizimana's family
learned they would be resettled in America.

COMING TO AMERICA

On July 11, 2007, they arrived in Fredericksburg -- part of more than 100
refugees resettled here that year.

Through the Refugee and Migration Services of the Arlington Diocese of the
Catholic Church, the family of five moved into a town house in Fredericksburg's
Bragg Hill neighborhood.

Bizimana first got two part-time jobs, then in 2008, he started working at
Walmart in Central Park. Esther also found a job at the retailer. They both got
their driver's licenses and cars.

In 2009, volunteer Patricia Corbett approached them about becoming homeowners
through a loan from the U.S. Department of Agriculture.

Corbett, who works with refugees through St. Mary's Catholic Church, considered
Bizimana and Esther, because they both had jobs and cars.

The jobs meant the couple could afford a home; the cars meant they had
transportation if they moved outside the city. The loan is for rural areas, so
they couldn't use it in Fredericksburg.

Corbett helped them with the loan application and introduced them to a Realtor.

Bizimana and Esther had looked at a few houses before they pulled up to one on
Ruffin Drive in Ruffins Pond.

"I loved the floors here," Bizimana said, gesturing to the hardwood. "Everything
just fit right for me." His wife and children also loved the house. They moved
in in late November.

SETTLING IN

Now, their home is decorated with colorful garlands and silk flowers in pinks,
reds and yellows. The furniture was donated.

Bizimana talks about life in the refugee camp while Diane doodles and Edison
practices math problems on the couch. On the hardwood floor, Erick tries to
perfect his paper airplane. The children pay little attention to stories about
lack of food, armed rebels and the struggles of building a house by hand.

Snacking on potato chips, they say they don't remember that life at all.

Esther sweeps the floor and smiles when she says, "I'm trying to keep the house
clean, but it's too big."

The family has big hopes for their American life. Bizimana and Esther just
enrolled in English for Speakers of Other Languages classes. The children
started public school last week.

Their parents plan on all three attending college. Bizimana would like to go to
college and maybe even graduate school.

For now, he works on his ministry in Tanzania and hopes to raise money for the
widows and orphans.

The family worships at Highway Assembly of God in Spotsylvania on Sunday
mornings and then at Swahili services at Fredericksburg Baptist.

"He's very, very serious about his relationship with God," said the Rev. Dick
Jackson, pastor of Highway. "He has a very strong determination to succeed, to
learn God's will in his life."

Most evenings, Bizimana worships with other African pastors via teleconference
calls.

"America is good because it gave us a place of safety. It's a peaceful country,
a place of equality; and I love being here," he said. "Here, I don't have to
worry about my kids getting killed or getting hurt, and I'm so thankful they
trusted me to give me a loan to buy a house."

Amy Flowers Umble: 540/735-1973

Email: aumble@freelancestar.com

The refugees in the Fredericksburg area have been determined by the U.S.
government to face persecution in their home countries on account of race,
religion, nationality, membership in a social or political group. They are
allowed to live in the United States indefinitely. Refugees may eventually get
green cards.

The central African neighbor of Rwanda has been in turmoil since the 1970s.
Burundi, a predominantly Christian nation, became independent from Belgium in
1961, but tension between two tribes, the Hutus and the Tutsis, plagued the
country from its beginning. In 1972, the first major tribal massacre occurred in
Burundi. About 150,000 Burundians fled their country in the early 1970s,
including Longino Bizimana's parents.

In 2004, the Arlington Diocese of the Catholic Church opened a Fredericksburg
branch of its Office of Migration and Refugee Services. Since then, more than
600 refugees have been resettled in the Fredericksburg area. They come from
Somalia, Burundi, Nepal, Iraq, Afghanistan, Congo, Eritrea and Ethiopia.

The local office of Migration and Refugee Services is responsible for finding
homes, jobs and schools for the newcomers. Often, local volunteers jump in to
help.

Resettlement increased drastically in 2007, and many of the new families came
from Burundi. In the next few years, resettlement workers would struggle to find
jobs for the newcomers. As the recession hit, jobs for people with limited
English grew scarcer. This continues to be a problem. -- Amy Flowers Umble

To see more of The Free Lance-Star or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://fredericksburg.com/flshome. Copyright (c) 2010, The Free Lance-Star,
Fredericksburg, Va. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
more information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune
Information Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail
services@mctinfoservices.com, or call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States,
call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100828-FB-Refugee
-family-has-a-home-now-reaching-out-to-others-0828-20100828

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FB


                       Copyright 2010 The Free Lance-Star


                              514 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 22, 2010 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Somali Refugees Rediscover Fear in a Ugandan Haven

BYLINE: By JOSH KRON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; KAMPALA JOURNAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1049 words


KAMPALA, Uganda -- ''Sometimes I get these bad dreams,'' said Ahmed Uleh, his
eyes hidden behind shiny aviator sunglasses. ''Like they are trying to cut off
my head.''

Mr. Uleh, 29, said he was kidnapped in Somalia last year by the Shabab, the
militant Islamist insurgent group that claimed responsibility for blowing up two
gatherings of soccer fans in Uganda during the final game of the World Cup this
month, killing 76 people and putting East Africa on high alert.

Mr. Uleh's captors tied his legs and arms behind a chair, he said, and beat him.
After being freed, Mr. Uleh said he donned a woman's burqa, pretended to be a
mother carrying a baby in her arms and made his way past rebel checkpoints to
Somalia's capital, Mogadishu, before catching a flight out.

He arrived here in Uganda's capital, Kampala, last year, joining tens of
thousands of other Somalis who have fled decades of violence back home, to come
live in a country diplomats and United Nations officials call a refugee's
paradise.

Now that paradise is under threat. Since the attacks, the military and police
presence has heightened, some travelers from the Horn of Africa have been turned
away at borders and changes to asylum protocol have put Somalis like Mr. Uleh on
edge.

Adding to the anxiety among refugees, an agency working here to help resettle
them in the United States abruptly left the country, raising fears that hundreds
had been stranded.

The developments could endanger the attraction of Uganda as a precious transit
point or final destination for the droves of people fleeing the many dangers of
Somalia, including the brutality of insurgent groups like the Shabab.

According to the United Nations, Somalia produces the third most refugees in the
world, behind Afghanistan and Iraq, and Uganda is a natural haven for them.

It has one of the most liberal refugee policies in Africa, granting approval to
virtually all asylum applicants from the region, except Rwanda, which seeks to
have its refugees returned.

Here in Kampala, Somalis have built a flourishing and assimilated community,
selling sheep, fixing cars, running restaurants and playing soccer in a
neighborhood that many here call Little Mogadishu.

Mr. Uleh himself dresses more like a trendy nightclub D.J. than an impoverished
refugee, and thousands of Somalis here are in the middle of an applications
process to be resettled in the United States.

The World Cup was supposed to be a celebration for Somalis, too, as one of the
tournament's official songs was performed by a popular Somali-born rapper,
K'Naan, making him a hero to many young Somali men.

But then, in the second half of the final game, three explosions ripped through
two popular sites where fans were watching. The Shabab claimed responsibility a
day later, and for Uganda's Somali community, a new reality was soon ushered in.

The police stopped registering new refugees immediately after the attacks. The
process has since reopened with new regulations and there has been a surge in
registrations, but community leaders said they believed that there were many who
were too timid to come forward.

They say a chill has descended on the once friendly streets of Kampala. Last
week, an Eritrean man was beaten to death by a mob that apparently thought he
was Somali.

Community leaders say more than 20 Somalis have also been arrested from the
neighborhood, including a popular businessman, and many more have been picked up
and questioned.

''We have stepped up vigilance in all corners, but our people are very
hospitable,'' said Musa Ecweru, Uganda's state minister for disasters. ''We
don't want xenophobia here. There is a lot going on at the moment.''

Refugees in Little Mogadishu have a larger worry lurking in the back of their
minds -- the dream of America.

Last week, the Joint Voluntary Agency, which processes resettlement applications
of refugees on behalf of the United States government, picked up and left the
country days before a major interview session. Refugees say they do not know
why.

''I just hope they come back,'' said Ahmed Adam, 21, who is one of hundreds who
was supposed to be interviewed last week.

American officials confirmed the agency's withdrawal, describing it as a
temporary move because of the attacks. Security has been beefed up in town, and
more than 60 agents from the F.B.I. are in the country investigating the
bombings. What they find could have a major impact on how liberal the
environment for Somalis in Uganda remains.

''Resettlement of refugees to the United States is a lengthy process,'' said
Joann Lockard, a spokesperson for the State Department in Uganda. ''At this
time, the July 11 attacks have not altered the process for Somali refugees in
Uganda from the U.S. perspective.''

The United States resettles thousands of Somalis to America every year. More
than 50,000 have been resettled since fiscal year 2004 alone, according to the
State Department.

From the perspective of some of the Somalis in Uganda, veterans of refugee life,
the attacks are another setback in a long and unpredictable line of interviews,
security checks and bulletin-board announcements.

Ali Mohammed Muse, 28, is one. He and his mother arrived in Uganda from Somalia
in 1991, and she was resettled to the United States. At his refugee camp in
Uganda, Mr. Muse worked as a youth leader and soccer coach.

Now he lives in Little Mogadishu, hoping to be reunited with his mother in
Seattle. But Mr. Muse fears that the terrorist attacks have dented his chances,
and shakes his head helplessly.

''I don't know why, but I feel like I am guilty,'' he said. ''Maybe I look like
one; maybe I have the same name.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 16, 2010



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
The Kampala Journal article on July 22, about the concerns of Somali refugees in
Uganda after the July 11 bombings in the Ugandan capital, Kampala, that were
carried out by militants from the Shabab, a Somalian Muslim extremist group,
misstated the year that Ali Mohammed Muse, a refugee who worried that the attack
hurt his chances of emigrating to the United States, had come to Uganda. It was
1991, not 2004. The article also misstated the age of another refugee, Ahmed
Uleh, who said he had once been kidnapped by the Shabab. He is 29, not 34.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Somali girl walked home from school with her Ugandan
classmates. Somalis have built a flourishing community that many here call
Little Mogadishu.
 Ahmed Uleh, 34, said he was kidnapped in Somalia last year by the Shabab. He
arrived in Kampala last year, joining tens of thousands of other Somalis.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARC HOFER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              515 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              July 16, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

BRITAIN AT WAR

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 207 words


BRITAIN AT WAR LONDON, TUESDAY, JULY 16, 1940 ADVENTURES IN TREK TO ESCAPE
GERMANS REFUGEES MONTH ON ROAD: FIGHTS TO GET PETROL From C. J. MARTIN, Formerly
of The Daily Telegraph Paris Staff LISBON, Monday.

Tens of thousands of people, Dutch, Belgian, American, British and French, have
passed through Lisbon in the past few days in one of the greatest treks in
history.

Hospitable Portugal, perhaps the last land of plenty in continental Europe, has
been to them a haven in their troubles. These refugees, mostly persons of
substance, driven from their homes and businesses in Rotterdam, Amsterdam,
Brussels and Paris, are on their way to the United States, South America, South
Africa, Canada or Britain.

They were more than a month on the road, fleeing before the German invasion.
Here are a few of their vicissitudes and experiences: Machine-gunned on the
roads in Holland, Belgium and France Sleeping days on end in their cars on the
roadside. Often foodless for days except for an odd tin of sardines and a hunk
of bread obtained from kindly peasants.

Fighting with fists to obtain a couple of gallons of petrol at an exorbitant
price.

Struggling to make their way through streams of refugees miles long in their
effort to reach the frontier.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              516 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Times (Kigali)

                             June 24, 2010 Thursday

U.S. NGO Trains Congolese Refugees in Vocational Skills

BYLINE: Ambrose Gahene

LENGTH: 128  words

DATELINE: Gicumbi


The American Refugee Committee (ARC) is training Congolese refugees at Gihembe
refugee camp, in various vocational skills.

Addressing refugees during World Refugee Day last Sunday, ARC country director
Barry Whiler, said the training was aimed at enabling refugees undertake income
generating projects.

"In addition to the provision of social amenities to refugees, ARC will continue
carrying out vocational training to enable refugees acquire technical skills
useful for their future self sustenance," said Barry.

According to ARC camp manager, Jennifer Nantale, the vocational courses being
offered include tailoring, mechanics and construction works.

"We plan to offer carpentry and catering courses next year," said Nantale. ARC
also provides clean water to the refugees.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              517 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         The Brownsville Herald (Texas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 22, 2010 Tuesday

EDITORIAL: Seeking refuge: While we dither on immigration, Mexican flow grows
more urgent

BYLINE: The Brownsville Herald, Texas

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 701 words


Jun. 22--While Americans spent Sunday celebrating Father's Day, a darker
commemoration drew much of the world's attention. The United Nations High
Commission for Refugees marks June 20 as World Refugee Day.

For many Americans, the term "refugee" spurs thoughts of war-torn and
famish-plagued countries in Africa, Asia or the Middle East. Many refugees find
their way to the United States, however, and the growing unrest in Mexico could
send new waves of people to our border seeking sanctuary.

This adds new urgency to the need for our elected officials to do something --
anything -- to address the woefully inadequate process under which immigrants
are screened and processed. Most importantly, we must decide what level, if any,
we are willing to accept of refugees escaping Mexico's drug violence and
political instability. How many, if any, can we accept, and what criteria will
we use to sort them out?

The United States traditionally has accepted refugees on humanitarian grounds,
and in large numbers. Many people surely remember the Mariel Boatlift of 1980,
in which more than 100,000 people came to this country from Cuba. The UNHCR
reports that the United States took in some 823,000 refugees from Indochina
after the fall of Saigon in 1975.

But the millions seeking to cross though our southern border could dwarf those
numbers. The Center for Immigration Studies estimates nearly 40 million U.S.
residents are immigrants. About 60 percent are from Mexico and a third of them
are here without residency permits. Most Mexican nationals came here for
economic reasons, but growing numbers are fleeing the violence. The UNCHR
reports that as of January, 6,435 official refugees had left Mexico and another
20,413 have sought asylum in other countries -- mostly the United States. Many
of them are former police officers, journalists and business owners who already
have been threatened by drug dealers or corrupt police.

The U.S. and Mexican governments invest more and more resources to fight the
illicit drug trade, which only begets more violence. That's compounded by open
gang warfare for territory and drug-related business.

No matter what outcome this war has, its effects on Mexico's development will be
felt for decades to come. More than 15 years after the Medellin and Cali cartels
were officially defeated, Colombia remains unstable; thousands still flee the
lingering violence. Drug-related killings have subsided, but gangs continue to
fight and guerrilla warfare continues. Ninety percent of those who left Colombia
as refugees still don't want to return to their homeland.

About 10 percent of Mexico's total population has come to America; most of them
are working-age -- 18-40 --the very people Mexico needs to progress; their
absence further retards the country's economic growth. Those whose children are
born in the United States tend to stay here, depriving Mexico of the next
generation of workers as well.

We note also that many Central and South American refugees fled to Mexico. As
the situation deteriorates there, how many will decide to continue north toward
the United States?

All this sets the scene for growing numbers of refugees -- with valid reasons
for leaving their country -- knocking on our doors. This country historically
has shown compassion and taken in many of those who are simply looking for a
peaceful place to live. But can we afford to allow what could be millions of
people from the South who wish to escape real violence -- violence that our own
drug policies have helped foment?

It's a big question, one that our elected officials already should be
discussing. After all, their refusal to address this problem isn't going to keep
the refugees from coming. We'd better know what to do when large numbers of them
start arriving.

To see more of The Brownsville Herald, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.brownsvilleherald.com. Copyright (c) 2010, The Brownsville Herald,
Texas Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100622-BV-EDITORIAL-Seeking-refuge-0622

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BV


                     Copyright 2010 The Brownsville Herald


                              518 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               New Era (Windhoek)

                              June 21, 2010 Monday

'Govt Respects Rights of Refugees'

BYLINE: John Ekongo

LENGTH: 476  words

DATELINE: Windhoek


Government says it is committed to the protection of refugees and asylum seekers
in the country, and will ensure that, at all times, refugees and asylum seekers
are treated with dignity and respect.

However, it also expects all refugees and asylum seekers to adhere to the
general obligations of refugees, as provided for in the 1951 United Nations and
1969 Organisation of African Unity (OAU) conventions, obliging them to adhere to
the rules and regulations of the host country.

These, amongst others, were the remarks of Home Affairs Minister Rosalia
Nghidinwa last week in the National Assembly, in anticipation of World Refugee
Day yesterday, June 20.

The main commemoration of the day was at the Osire Refugee Camp in the
Otjiwarongo district on Friday, since June 20 fell on a Sunday, said the
minister.

Nghidinwa said her ministry would do its best to implement its constitutional
mandate as provided for in Article 97, to provide refugees with protection and
care.

"The Ministry of Home Affairs and Immigration, in co-operation with the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), will always try its level best
to provide shelter, food, clean water, family re-unification, education and
healthcare to the refugees and asylum seekers in the Republic of Namibia," she
said.

The minister made her statement against the backdrop of an incident a year ago,
when 41 refugees left Osire camp allegedly fearful of persecution by the
Namibian Government.

Nghidinwa explained that the refugees in question left the settlement in the
hope they would be resettled either in the United States of America or Canada.

As such, said Nghidinwa, "those refugees and asylum seekers contravened the
provision of section 21 of the Refugee (Recognition and Control) Act 2 of 1999,
which requires them to apply for a permit to leave the settlement as well as
depart from Namibia.

It is also required that their passports be endorsed with a departure stamp by
an immigration official.

Namibia is the most sought, after destination for refugees, mainly from Angola,
Rwanda, Democratic Republic of Congo, the Republic of Congo, the Central African
Republic, Uganda, Sierra Leone and other west African nations. The minister
called on mainly Angolan and Rwandese refugees to return home to help with the
consolidation of democracy and development of their countries.

"We believe the time has come to encourage refugees, particularly Angolans and
Rwandese, whose countries have consolidated democracy to make use of voluntary
repatriation exercises, which is organised by both governments and the UNHCR so
that they can be reintegrated with their families and be able to contribute to
the development of their countries."

Nghidinwa said she is happy that some of the refugees that were repatriated to
Angola are now contributing to the economic reconstruction of that country.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              519 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                              June 20, 2010 Sunday

Pakistan: UN highlights plights of many displaced by conflicts

LENGTH: 612  words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS


UNITED NATIONS, June 20 -- The United Nations has urged

governments and individuals not to forget the 15 million men, women and children
who have been uprooted by conflict or persecution and are unable to return to
their homes.

Refugees have been deprived of their homes, but they must not be

deprived of their futures, Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said in a message to
mark the World Refugee Day, calling for working with host Governments to deliver
services, and intensifying efforts to resolve conflicts so that refugees can
return home.

The theme of World Refugee Day, which is observed on June 20, is

Home, and highlights the need to ensure that all refugees can have a place to
call home, whether they return to their places of origin, settle in host
countries or re-settle in a third country.

A recent report by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR)

noted a decline in the number of refugees who are able to go home. In 2005, more
than a million people returned to their own country on a voluntary basis. Last
year, only 250,000 did so the lowest number in two decades.

The reasons for this include prolonged instability in Afghanistan,

the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and southern Sudan. Despite the
decline in voluntary repatriation opportunities for refugees, UNHCR is working
hard on solutions, High Commissioner for Refugees Antnio Guterres said in his
message.

Mr. Guterres is marking the Day in Syria, which, according to

Government estimates, hosts over 1 million refugees, the majority from Iraq. It
was announced today that 100,000 Iraqi refugees have been referred for
resettlement from the Middle East to third countries since 2007, a major
milestone for one of the world's largest refugee populations.

He stressed the need to find solutions to help ensure that refugees

have a place to call home, to do more to combat misunderstandings about
refugees, and to provide education and other skills training so that even if
they do not have homes they can still have a future.

UNHCR Goodwill Ambassador and award-winning actress Angelina Jolie

is in Ecuador, where she is highlighting the challenges facing refugees. Having
a home, a place where we belong, a place where we feel safe is something most of
us take for granted, she said on the occasion of World Refugee Day.

Yet those who flee from conflict and persecution no longer have their homes, and
it will be years before they can even return. In fact, many may never go home
again. There are around 51,000 registered Colombian refugees in Ecuador, but
UNHCR estimates that about 135,000 people are in need of international
protection. This makes Ecuador the country with the largest refugee population
in Latin America. Guterres and Ms. Jolie are taking part Thursday, along with
United States Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, in a live video link WRD Live
which will connect with Washington D.C., Malaysia, Syria, northern Ecuador and
DRC to talk to refugees about their experiences. For the first time, the
79-year-old Empire State Building in New York will be lit blue on 20 June to
honour the world's refugees. Other global landmarks that will turn blue include
the ancient Colosseum in Rome and also for the first time the bridge across the
Ibar River in the divided Kosovo town of Mitrovica. World Refugee Day activities
also include film screenings, photography exhibitions, food bazaars, fashion
shows, concerts and sports contests across countries in the Middle East,
Asia-Pacific, Europe, the Americas and Africa Published by HT Syndication with
permission from Right Vision News. For more information on news feed please
contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              520 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                             June 12, 2010 Saturday

Chelmsford pastor hopes to learn from Christians in developing countries

BYLINE: By Debbie Hovanasian, Sun Correspondent

SECTION: RELIGION

LENGTH: 705 words


CHELMSFORD -- For many years, the Rev. David Rinas, pastor of Trinity Lutheran
Church in Chelmsford, and his wife, Doreen, have provided temporary shelter to
refugees and asylum seekers. Living with the refugees, they found that they had
an outlook on life in America that diverged from how Americans see that life.
They simply saw things in a different way.

One refugee was hesitant to insult the Rinases, but he was moved to ask why
Americans spend so much money on soft coverings for hard floors, only to walk on
that soft floor with hard shoes, Rinas said.

Now Rinas, who recently completed a mission to Honduras and has just begun a
three-month sabbatical, aims to put himself in a position similar to the
refugees'. Over his sabbatical, he plans to visit developing countries, live
among the people, and observe why they do what they do.

More specifically, as the pastor of a vibrant Lutheran congregation, he's
interested in learning why Christianity is experiencing significant growth in
developing countries, while many churches in America are experiencing declining
membership.

"I want to learn why so many Spanish-speaking people have such a deep and
profound faith -- to explore another culture by knowing enough of its language
to get some real insight," he said.

"What can I learn from them -- especially when they have something that I would
like. What will I discover?"

In "The Next Christendom: The Rise of Global Christianity," Pennsylvania State
University professor Philip Jenkins shows that Christianity is on the rise in
developing countries. His data shows that Ghana has more Presbyterians than
Scotland, Nigeria has more Anglicans than Britain and China will soon have more
Christians than all but six nations.

Jenkins' statistics further indicate that by 2025, 67 percent of Christians will
live in Africa, Latin America or Asia. And by 2050, a third of Latinos and
Asians will come from Christian backgrounds.

Rinas, who has traveled on several missions and lived in other parts of the
world, has observed firsthand that growth in Christianity -- especially people's
willingness to talk about and share their faith.

"Why are they so willing to share their faith?" Rinas asked. "We have plenty of
faith here but we are so reluctant to talk about it. In other parts of the
world, you can get killed for sharing your faith. People risk their lives to go
to church. Here, you can express your faith, but we're more reluctant."

In order to get some of those answers, Rinas is brushing up on his high-school
and college-level Spanish by spending an hour a day at his laptop using the
Rosetta Stone Spanish-language software program.

His language has improved since his February trip to Honduras, the third poorest
country in the world, where he spent a week helping to build an Episcopal
Church. During his conversations with the Hondurans, he was "just getting by,"
he said. Now he's more conversational.

He expects to hone the language even further during his sabbatical on visits to
Puerto Rico and Mexico, where he will live for three weeks with a Mexican family
in a language-immersion program.

"There's five hours of intensive language training every day," he said.

His drive to immerse himself in the Spanish-speaking, third-world Christian
culture, seeking out answers, is not something he can easily explain.

"I just feel called to do this and I don't even know why," he said. "I'm going
to go worship in these other places, participate in the worship as best I can,
so that I can see how the good news impacts the people."

He's also aware that, much like his mission to Honduras, he will get more from
living among people than he will ever give.

"A lot of Americans, we think we are going to these places to offer help," he
said. "But this is always mutual. If we miss the aspect of how they can help us,
then we really miss the point. You come back changed, and you often ask, why do
we have all this stuff?"

In his absence, Trinity will have 13 different preachers over 13 Sundays, seven
of whom are lay members of the church. He looks forward to returning to his
congregation in September, renewed and refreshed -- and with new insight.

"Faith is always a journey," he said. "I'm looking for new tools for that
journey."

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              521 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Times (Kigali)

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday

Genocide Suspect Living in US Faces Deportation

BYLINE: James Karuhanga

LENGTH: 354  words

DATELINE: Usa


Reports from the US indicate that an alleged genocide fugitive, Lazare Kobagaya,
82, whose trial started last year, may be deported on conviction.

The accused appeared before a U.S. District Judge on Wednesday for charges
including covering up his alleged involvement in the 1994 Genocide against the
Tutsi and unlawfully obtaining U.S. citizenship in 2006.

Kobagaya, a Burundian refugee living in Rwanda in 1994, is accused of having
actively participated and ordered the killings of hundreds of people in the
former Commune of Nyakizu in southern Rwanda before fleeing to the US. He now
lives in Topeka, the capital city of the US state of Kansas.

Reacting to the news yesterday, Theodore Simburudari, the head of IBUKA - the
umbrella body of Genocide survivors association, stressed that "very many
Burundians" along the southern border were involved in the Genocide and must be
quickly tracked and brought before courts of law.

"Many Burundians who were in the areas of Nyakizu, Ntongwe, and neighboring
districts played a major role in the massacres there. Many fled to refugee camps
in Gikongoro while others immediately left the country," said Simburudari.

A list of over 600 former refugees suspected of taking part in the Genocide has
been submitted to Burundian judicial authorities. They are discussing whether
the suspects should be tried in Rwanda or Burundian courts.

"What is important here is, a Genocidaire, wherever he is, whether he is a
Burundian or not, must be brought to trial. There is no excuse whatsoever. We
have said this time and again; justice must not be delayed," Simburudari
remarked.

According to reports in the US media, a federal judge is set to decide on
whether to exclude evidence seized at Kobagaya's home last year since his
lawyers argue that US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents
improperly seized the evidence - letters and photographs - that the agents say
prove that the accused was in Rwanda during the Genocide.

During his asylum application, he had claimed that between 1993 and 1995, he was
living in Burundi. Kobagaya is scheduled to appear in court again on October 12.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              522 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                This Day (Lagos)

                            March 25, 2010 Thursday

Locals, Afghans, Iraqis Top List of Asylum Seekers

BYLINE: Tokunbo Adedoja

LENGTH: 297  words

DATELINE: New York


Afghans, Iraqis, Somalis and Nigerians are top on the list of asylum seekers,
according to the 2009 chart released by the United Nations High Commission for
Refugees (UNHCR). Also top on the chart are people from Russia, China and
Serbia.

According to UNHCR's provisional statistical report which measured asylum levels
and trends in 44 industrialised nations, the number of asylum seekers last year
remained the same with 377,000 applications compared to 2008.

Of this figure, Afghans represent 7 per cent (26,404); Iraqis - 7 per cent
(26,404); Somalia - 6 per cent (22,632); Russia - 6 per cent (22,632); China - 5
per cent (18,860); Serbia - 5 per cent (18,860); and Nigerians - 4 per cent
(15,088).

Nationals of the seven countries represent 40 per cent of asylum seekers, while
the remaining 60 per cent come from other nationalities across the globe. The
three countries that top the list - Afghanistan, Iraq and Somalia - had been
repeatedly described as dangerous places to live in.

While suicide bombing is rampant in Afghanistan and Iraq, warlords and pirates
reign in Somalia. Nearly half of the 377,000 applicants came from Asia and the
Middle East representing 45 per cent, followed by Africa - 29 per cent, Europe -
15.5 per cent and the Americas - 9 per cent.

The report said United States of America remains the main destination country
for asylum seekers for the fourth year as it accounted for 13 per cent of the
claims, which represents an estimated 49,000 people, many of whom are from
China.

Next to the US is France, which received 42,000 new applications in 2009, a 19
per cent increase over 2008. Canada ranks third among receiving countries with
33,000 applications, followed by United Kingdom with 29,800 applications.
Germany received 27,600 asylum applications.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              523 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Times of Zambia (Ndola)

                           February 27, 2010 Saturday

UNHCR Regrets Loss of Life

LENGTH: 316  words


THE UNITED Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) has expressed regret
at the loss of a life during the fracas that rocked Meheba Refugee Camp on
Wednesday.

The UNHCR has since welcomed Government's move to carry out investigations into
the incident, which resulted in the death of a female refugee.

In a statement yesterday, UNHCR representative James Lynch said his organisation
was ready to participate in the investigations.

Mr Lynch said some women and children were arrested during the fracas and
appealed to Government to ensure human rights for all refugees arrested during
the operation were respected, including their right not to be arbitrarily
detained and not to be forcibly returned to their countries of origin.

"UNHCR welcomes the announcement by the minister of Home Affairs that an
investigation into the incident which resulted in the death of the female
refugee, will take place. UNHCR stands ready to participate in this
investigation," Mr Lynch said.

He said the protest at the refugee camp followed a lengthy period of tension and
unrest over corrupt practises and fraud, which he said were investigated
jointly, and confirmed by the commissioner for refugees and UNHCR.

"We had hoped that this situation will be resolved peacefully without the use of
force," he said.

On Wednesday, refugees led by five ring-leaders who had since been sent back to
their countries of origin, rioted resulting in a death of a woman.

The identified ring-leaders who had been demanding to be taken to America and
were inciting other refugees to reject every management team sent by Government
to supervise the camp, incited their colleagues to riot after realising that
they were about to be sent back to their countries of origin.

The situation became a security risk prompting Home Affairs Minister Lameck
Mangani to sign papers that the five should be sent back to their countries of
origin.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              524 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Times of Zambia (Ndola)

                            February 26, 2010 Friday

Calm Returns to Refugee Camp

LENGTH: 378  words


CALM has returned at Meheba Refugee Camp in North-Western Province following the
confusion in which one woman was shot dead by security personnel two days ago.

Five refugees identified as ring-leaders have been expelled from the camp and
sent back to their countries of origin.

Home Affairs Minister Lameck Mangani said at a Press briefing in Lusaka
yesterday that confusion started when security officers went to remove a group
of refugees who had occupied staff offices at the refugee camp since January.

The refugees were demanding to be taken out of Zambia to another country for
asylum, but the demand could not be met by the authorities.

Mr Mangani said it was the desire of most refugees to make Zambia a transit
point to other countries, preferrably the United States of America or South
Africa.

He said between Janauary 29 and February 24 this year, senior provincial
Government officials and United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees officers
made several attempts to have the refugees vacate the administrative offices.

The minister said the occupation of the offices by the refugees had affected
service delivery at the camp.

He said he was forced to sign removal order papers for the five ring-leaders.

"Calm has returned to the camp following the confusion. Investigations further
show that some notorious refugees, after realising that they would be removed
from camp, mobilised their friends to confront the security officers sent to go
and remove them out of the camp," he said.

Mr Mangani said at an appropriate time, the Government would disclose the
identity and nationality of the woman who was killed as well as those who were
removed from Zambia.

Some refugees became violent and in the confusion, a woman aged between 18 and
20 was killed under circumstances which are yet to be established.

Mr Mangani appealed to the refugees to observe the laws of the land, adding that
Zambia had done a lot by committing herself to looking after them.

Meanwhile, the minister urged political parties in the country to educate their
supporters on the need to maintain peace ahead of the 2011 general elections.

He said it would be important to maintain peace at all times, and advised
politicians to avoid using insulting language and causing tension in the
country.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              525 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The Jerusalem Post

                            February 19, 2010 Friday

Rescuing Roosevelt

BYLINE: RAFAEL MEDOFF

SECTION: BOOKS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1226 words



HIGHLIGHT: The editors of this work give FDR far too much credit for his part in
pre-WWII plans to save Jews. The writer is director of the David S. Wyman
Institute for Holocaust Studies.


Refugees and Rescue Edited by Richard Breitman, Barbara Stewart McDonald and
Severin Hochberg | Indiana University Press | 376 pages | $29.95

A memorable editorial cartoon by Arie Navon in Haaretz in early 1939 depicted an
encounter between passengers on two Jewish refugee ships. One passenger calls to
the other, "Where are you coming from, brother, and where are you going?" To
which the other refugee replies, "To the Black Sea and back." The poignant scene
captured the sense of futility enveloping the Jewish world in the 1930s, as
hundreds of thousands of Jews sought haven from Hitler but found all doors
closed.

Until now, the virtually unanimous view among historians of America's response
to the Holocaust was that president Franklin Roosevelt did not undertake serious
efforts to find a haven for the Jews. In Refugees and Rescue, coeditors Richard
Breitman, Barbara Stewart McDonald and Severin Hochberg offer a startling
revisionist perspective, in which Roosevelt is portrayed as laboring
energetically to rescue German Jewry from Hitler.

"We have found some fundamentally new information about the president's views
and policies before and during the Holocaust," the editors assert. "[President
Roosevelt] conceived a series of initiatives as early as 1938 to resettle all
Jews from Europe."

FDR fancied himself an amateur geographer and was fascinated by the idea of
moving large numbers of people from one locale to another to solve some social
problem. As a result, when the German Jewish refugee crisis approached
catastrophic proportions in 1938, Roosevelt pondered a number of proposals for
mass resettlement of the refugees. But to credit FDR for "conceiving" them, as
Refugees and Rescue does, is something else entirely.

Among the refugee resettlement proposals discussed in Washington in the late
1930s was one to settle Jews in the Orinoco River valley in Venezuela. That was
suggested by a former Venezuelan minister to Washington, not by Roosevelt. The
idea of setting aside an area near the Costa Rica- Panama border for refugees
was proposed by the former US minister to Costa Rica, not FDR. Henry Ford, of
all people, offered some of his property in Brazil as a haven for the Jews.

William Randolph Hearst thought the Belgian Congo could be a home for the
refugees. Herbert Hoover and Bernard Baruch urged creation of a "United States
of Africa," in Rhodesia, Kenya and Tanganyika, for the Jews. Undersecretary of
state Sumner Welles preferred Angola. Interior secretary Harold Ickes and his
aides supported settling refugees in Alaska and the Virgin Islands. What these
proposals had in common was that FDR neither conceived them nor took serious
steps to bring them to fruition.

In the case of Alaska and the Virgin Islands, FDR did not merely ignore the
proposals, but actually undermined them. He agreed with the State Department
that "all kinds of undesirables and spies" would enter the islands disguised as
refugees and from there sneak into the US, and he told Ickes to drop the idea
lest it "hurt the future of present American citizens."

When Ickes presented FDR with a plan to bring Jewish refugees to Alaska as
laborers to develop its mineral-rich territory, Roosevelt countered with a
watered-down version in which "not more than 10 percent would be Jews, and thus
[we] would be able to avoid the undoubted criticism that we would be subjected
to if there were an undue proportion of Jews." Not many Jews would be saved, but
at least Roosevelt might be spared the barbs of his anti-Semitic critics.

Oddly, the final outcome of the Alaska discussion is not mentioned in Refugees
and Rescue. Readers who take the trouble to dig out Prof. Breitman's 1987 book
with Alan Kraut, American Refugee Policy and European Jewry, will find the rest
of the story there. In early 1940, refugee sympathizers in Congress introduced
the King-Havenner bill to permit foreign workers to enter Alaska outside the
quota system. Despite Roosevelt's supposed interest in having refugees colonize
Alaska, "once the bill was introduced the president backed away from it,"
Breitman wrote. As a result, "in spite of the many economic benefits that the
bill contained for the development of Alaska, the bill died in subcommittee..."

The growing stack of resettlement proposals gathering dust on Roosevelt's desk
was a source of considerable frustration for refugee advocate James G. McDonald,
the subject of Refugees and Rescue. McDonald resigned from his position as the
League of Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in 1935 because of the
international community's failure to address the refugee problem. Three years
later, he was named chairman of Roosevelt's Presidential Advisory Committee on
Political Refugees, but that effort, too, achieved little.

There was one moment when it may have seemed to McDonald that FDR was on the
verge of taking meaningful action. In a private conversation in November 1938 -
on which Refugees and Rescue hangs much of its case - Roosevelt told McDonald
the US might contribute to an international fund to resettle the Jews. The
president said that "when practical plans emerge" in which "other governments
and private agencies participate," then "an appropriation by Congress might be
conceivable." Roosevelt spoke of a $400 million resettlement budget, of which
the US might contribute $150 million.

Certainly that would have been a generous offer; but it was all theoretical. The
Roosevelt administration quickly shot down resettlement proposals that involved
US territory or were near America's shores. Many other potential havens were
uninhabitable. The British declared Palestine off-limits. What did that leave?
And how would the financial participation of other governments be secured,
especially if America did not take the lead?

Even when the British offered to help finance a mass resettlement project in
Guyana, Roosevelt still refrained from seeking congressional assistance. By
September 1939, McDonald told State Department official Robert Pell: "It is
fairly obvious that the American government is not preparing to meet the British
challenge on governmental financing..."

Every president from time to time tells interlocutors what they want to hear,
regardless of whether he means it. FDR was no exception. In a diary entry in
March 1944, vice president Henry Wallace noted - after a meeting between
Roosevelt and Jewish leaders in which FDR misleadingly gave the impression that
he supported their position on Palestine - "The president certainly is a
waterman. He looks one direction and rows the other with the utmost skill."

Historians must judge FDR on what he did, not what he hinted he might one day
do. His statement to James McDonald regarding congressional funding for
refugees, which Breitman et al. present as proof FDR wanted to save the Jews,
is, in fact, further evidence that Roosevelt was willing to do very little to
save them. Of course, that is hardly news, certainly not the "fundamentally new
information" that Breitman and his coeditors are now claiming to have
discovered.

In fact, it was Breitman himself, in a lecture in 1993, who said, "The president
might have reversed the impression that the United States was willing to do
little itself, if he had sought and won congressional approval for funding of
refugee resettlement."

That statement was as true then as it is today.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: FDR addresses a joint session of Congress in 1942. The editors
claim Roosevelt conceived a series of initiatives to save European Jews as early
as 1938. (Credit: World Wide Photos)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              526 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The Monitor (Kampala)

                            February 14, 2010 Sunday

Stuck in the Camps With No Where to Go

BYLINE: Paul Amoru and Cissy Makumbi

LENGTH: 1509  words

DATELINE: Gulu


Among the many tragic episodes of contemporary world history, is the depressing
tale of the 'Boat People', a term that was used to describe the Vietnamese
refugees who used small, rickety boats to flee repressive Communist rule at the
height of Vietnam War in 1975.

More than one million people became refugees. Many perished. It was estimated
that up to 25 per cent of those who left Vietnam perished on the stormy seas.
Thousands died when their boats were attacked and then sank by Thai pirates.

Women and young girls were raped then murdered. Their story shocks human
conscience, for a few, luck came their way when the United States, Canada, and
other nations accepted them as refugees in the late 1970s and the 1980s.
However, thousands remained stranded with no place to call home.

The devastating conflict waged by the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) in northern
Uganda has spawned a community of stranded people not dissimilar from Vietnam's
boat people. Having fled persecution and lived in appalling conditions for over
20 years in camps, thousands of Acholi's displaced families are now requested by
the government and land owners to return home.

Owing to the new found peace, over 60 per cent of the population in the region
is now attempting to resettle. But many are still stuck in the camps with no
place to go. For many this is simply because they do not know where home is.

Ms Rose Apalo, 70, cannot trace her origin. Some 9,000 displaced persons once
lived with her at Unyama camp until 2006.Today, the camp that was once situated
10 kilometres north of Gulu town is a desolate place.

More than 60 per cent of the population who once were neighbours with Ms Apalo
have either moved to satellite villages or resettled in their original homes.
But this is only a distant wish for the elderly woman. Apalo only recalls that
her immediate family once lived in Atiak Sub-county of present day Amuru
District. That's all. Her husband died 20 years ago before she was displaced to
Unyama camp in Gulu.

As a widow, Ms Apalo prayed to God to protect her two sons and one daughter;
they were the only reason she would live for. But the LRA killed the two sons in
the 1990s and she is left with her daughter who unfortunately got infected with
HIV and has developed Aids. "My daughter is too poor to even afford Shs50. She
is also struggling with two of her own children who also tested positive," Ms
Apalo explains.

Her dilemma is made worse by her multiple disabilities brought about by old age
and a paralysed leg. Ms Apalo is tired of camp life and believes things can only
get tougher as her other colleagues who have where to go, continue to leave.

"I want to leave but where to go?" she asked. "If there is anyone who can take
me I can go and stay, after all am left with few years to die," she says in Luo.
In the camp, landowners now demand Shs3,000 from her every month as rent, an
amount she considers prohibitive. Ms Apalo sells dried greens (Boo) and cow
peas, a business she started with a capital of Shs2,500 received as payment for
winnowing a neighbour's millet.

There are thousands of people like her scattered across northern Uganda;
hapless, stranded and sadly waiting to die, if nothing is done. Visit one of the
camps like Bar Lonyo in Lango sub-region where the LRA massacred over 250 people
in one night, and the living ghosts will besiege you with their pleading eyes as
they try to tell you their stories. The world has turned upside down, they will
tell you, during the years they have been here.

Ms Apalo is not alone in this camp; youth are also facing similar challenges. Ms
Beatrice Alianga entered the camp at the age of seven. Both her parents died and
were buried in the camp. "I do not have anybody; we grew up from here. As
majority are returning home we are pleading with the land owner to let us stay.
Our parents who died in 2002 talked of originating from the boarder of Kitgum
and Karamoja but we cannot trace our home or relatives," she narrates with
strength in her voice, but the tears rolling down her cheeks betray her inner
pain and weakness.

Ms Alianga discloses that she contracted HIV/Aids in the camp, and has been so
sickly because she is too poor to feed well. Yet she has the responsibility of
taking care of her three orphans. Her husband died several years ago but she did
not know his origin.

"Our parents were buried in the camp but if we die we do not know where our
remains will be buried even for our children," she breaks down again and needs
close to half an hour to recover.

The landlord collects Shs5,000 per month from her for the rent of a small hut
they live in. Ms Alianga washes people's clothes and does menial tasks at Unyama
Market to make ends meet. "Three of my children have reached school age but they
cannot attend school because Unyama and Pakwelo primary schools charge Shs10,000
a year which is a big sum for me to afford," she explains. However, Unyama
Parish Chief Alex Ojera said there are some communities who are giving their
land to help these people because most of them are not expected to live for more
than five years.

UNHCR official, Mr God Bourdin, during the camp closure in Awoo late last year,
requested land owners to give people time to prepare for return.

The UN agency also constructed about 515 huts and 510 pit latrines to help the
vulnerable persons that are still in the camps. But that is for those who know
where to go after camp. Unyama camp by the peak of the insurgency had a
population of 9,000 people but as of December last year 50 per cent had gone
home and plans are underway for the camp to be decommissioned along with the few
remaining such facilities in Gulu.

Thousands of these IDPs are likely to continue to be exposed to disease and
malnutrition, after having suffered displacement, exploitation and abuse
throughout their lives, both before camp life and while in the camp.

Out of a total of 20,000 formerly displaced persons that are still in the camps,
1,800 are extremely vulnerable persons, among which are people over
60-years-old, and the sick, Sunday Monitor established.

Mr Jack Byaruhanga of the Prime Minister's Office in Gulu, said other than those
who are stranded in the camps, the rest have not made up their mind to return
while others still have conflicts on their land. The prime minister's Office is
coordinated the return process. "Some have not made up their minds, while others
have land-related issues," Mr Byaruhanga noted. He says Lalogi Sub-county has a
big number of people still in camps, which stands at 4,000 with a total of 186
extremely vulnerable individuals (EVIs), while Ongako Sub-county has 3,300 with
about 100 EVIs.

Mr Byaruhanga adds that about 1,000 will still be supported by the WFP with food
items up to June this year. Initially there were a total of over 32,000 IDPs
displaced in Gulu district in all the 11 sub-counties dispersed in 31 camps of
which 16 have since been decommissioned after meeting the criteria of the 50 per
cent of the persons that have either returned to their original homes and those
who are in transit camps.

As of December 2009, there were a total of 16 camps that met the criteria and
they include, Awo, Opit, St Thomas Minakulu, Bobi, Lalogi, Awach, Coope,
Bungatira Alokolum, Lugole, Palaro, Omel-pe, Odek, Dino, Awere and Okwi. Other
camps that are pending closure after the assessment which is to be done late
this month include Cwero, Oto hills, Ajul, Unyama, Orok, Palenga, Bobi, Tetug,
Koro-Abili, Lukodi, Cet-kana, Acet, Kona-Gura, Adak and Monorak.

According to the government's IDP policy, displaced persons should be given time
to make up their minds to return without any threat or land owners' intimidation
and there is no time frame because return is voluntary.

Some former IDPs say they are still waiting for social services to reach their
former homes before they can return but the government urges them to return
first, then basic services will follow.

Meanwhile, some land owners are getting increasingly bitter especially in the
areas where camps have already been decommissioned but the IDPs are still
around.

In Oroko in Palaro were land owners have now issued a deadline of February15 for
all the people to leave. "We need a token of appreciation from the government,
as our colleagues are returning to fertile soils, we have to wait for years for
our land to regain fertility yet the government emphasises the issue of
prosperity for all," Mr Yafesi Ojo in Madi-Opei camp in Kitgum says. But even
for those who have returned home, the conditions in the villages are much worse
than in the camps.

The villages along with whatever life-supporting infrastructure were destroyed
when the people fled to the camps, so they are returning to a place with no
homes, no food, no clean water, no roads and far from the reach of the
humanitarian aid they have barely survived on these past two decades.

It will take time for the people to build houses, plant and harvest crops. In
the mean time hunger and starvation are widespread as witnessed in Acholi and
Lango last year.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              527 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Times (Kigali)

                           February 4, 2010 Thursday

Genocide Suspect Denied Asylum in Canada Again

BYLINE: Edmund Kagire

LENGTH: 382  words

DATELINE: Kigali


A Canadian Court on Tuesday denied asylum for the sixth time to Henri Jean
Claude Seyoboka due to existing evidence pinning him for participating in the
1994 Genocide against the Tutsi.

Seyoboka, a former soldier in the Forces Armees Rwandaise (FAR), had his refugee
status revoked by the Canadian Immigration authorities after he had deliberately
failed to mention his army links. It was later found that he also participated
in the massacres.

In a desperate attempt to restore his refugee status, the 43 year old resident
of Quebec filed appeals six times trying to distance himself from the Genocide,
but has been told by the Federal Court of Canada that he is excluded from
refugee status as investigations continue.

Seyoboka arrived in Canada in 1996, and claimed refugee protection which he was
granted. He then applied for permanent residency status.

In both his applications, however, he made no mention that he had served in the
Ex-FAR at the height of the Genocide.

The turning point came in 2002 when an indictment filed at the ICTR against
another person, spoke of "Second-Lieutenant Jean-Claude Seyoboka" manning a
roadblock in Kigali on April 7, 1994, along with members of the Rwandan army and
the Interahamwe, militia.

Investigations indicate that Seyoboka, who had earlier claimed to have played 'a
protection role' during the Genocide, killed a woman only named as Francine and
her two children because she refused to have sex with him in return for
protection,.

He managed to keep his name off the list of many suspected genocidaires hiding
in the North American country.

However, these new revelations come at a time when the Canadian government has
lifted deportation restrictions against Rwandans denied asylum opening the
possibility for government to send back hundreds back home.

Jamie Todd, a lawyer for the Canadian government, told court on Tuesday that
Seyoboka was now angling for one more "kick at the can" in his fight to remain
in Canada and trying to "wriggle out" of his responsibility and is inadmissible
in Canada by virtue of being a high-ranking member of the Rwandan regime at the
time of the Genocide.

Seyoboka is the son-in-law of Colonel Elie Sagatwa, one of the leading
masterminds of the Genocide and brother to former First Lady, Agathe Kanziga
Habyarimana.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              528 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            January 31, 2010 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Woman steps up to help refugees from Africa Rwandan immigrant provides a
connection in Columbia, Mo.

BYLINE: By Tracey Staight o Columbia Missourian

SECTION: COMMUNITY; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 689 words

DATELINE: 0


Columbia, Mo. - As the mother, father and five children step off the Greyhound,
they greet Caritas Habimana with "God bless you" in their native language from
Burundi.

"Imana Iguhezagire," each of them say as they gave Habimana a hug.

Habimana kneels and zips up the coats of Christina and Angela, two of the
family's young girls, as others begin to load up their belongings. It takes two
cars and a van to get everything they own back on the road to another home.

Mariya Mpawengayo and Moyize Maniratanga are African refugees who brought their
family to Columbia after struggling to find work, as well as integrating into
American culture, in Jacksonville, Fla.

Maniratanga's brother Mukiwa Baramfumbashe had been living in Columbia for a
year and asked Habimana to help relocate the family. Because they didn't come
directly from overseas - this move was their second since arriving in the United
States - an agency that serves refugees in 38 central Missouri counties would
not be able to help.

Habimana, who came to America after surviving the genocide in Rwanda 15 years
ago, has taken it upon herself to work with African refugees in Columbia and
provide them with the support they need.

"I was lucky to come here," Habimana said. "But I wanted to do something for my
people. And I prayed God every day for 15 years. I prayed until God showed me
that around me there were people that needed help."

Habimana quit her day care job in February to work full time with African
refugees. She works part time as an interpreter for the Columbia Housing
Authority, teaches adult refugees English and operates an after-school program
for children at the Imani Center.

She's also developing a center run by African refugees called Izuba, which means
sunlight in the Rwandan dialect of Kirwanda, to help families like Mpawengayo
and Maniratanga's.

The family has been on the move since escaping war-torn Burundi in 1972. They
lived in Congo until war broke out in 1996 and found sanctuary in a United
Nations refugee camp in Tanzania for 12 years before being sent to Florida.

Habimana worked with Christian Fellowship, a local church and Love Inc., a
faith-based organization, to raise money for their bus tickets. A member of the
Christian Fellowship donated a home. Other church members pitched in with
clothes, blankets, furniture, cookware, a television and food.

"I just sat back and watched these miracles happen," Habimana said.

Most of the African refugees in Columbia were placed there by the United Nations
from refugee camps. They don't have a choice about where they go, Habimana said.

Habimana had a much smoother transition after she came to the United States than
most of those she's helping. She was speaking English fluently after one year,
found a job at a local day care and raised three children.

Habimana has focused her energy on helping refugees from East African countries,
such as Congo, Rwanda, Burundi and Kenya, who speak their local dialects but
also share a common language of Kiswahili. All have fled their countries because
of war.

Before traveling to Columbia, they register for refugee status. The United
States invites a certain number of refugees, and the United Nations assigns a
certain number to different resettlement agencies based on money and capacity.

Columbia's Refugee and Immigration Services, a nonprofit ministry sector of the
Catholic Diocese in Jefferson City, has been placing refugees in central
Missouri since 1974.

Refugee and Immigration Services offers a first-year intensive case management
that includes transportation, day care, house calls, English classes and
employment help. The agency also provides five months of housing.

After the first year, refugees can obtain their green card, and the organization
assists each person through the process. Because of limited funds, all refugee
services end after five years. The organization will help refugees apply for
citizenship after five years, a service that's offered at a reduced rate.

But Refugee and Immigration Services can only do so much. Just this year, it
received 215 refugees in the Columbia area compared with 155 in 2008 and 75 in
2007.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  CHARLES LUDEKE  o  Associated Press/Missourian Photo -  Caritas
Habimana (right) greets African refugee Mariya Mpawenayo at the Greyhound bus
station in Columbia, Mo.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: PROFILE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              529 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                              New Vision (Kampala)

                            January 25, 2010 Monday

USA Takes in 6,000 Somali From Uganda

BYLINE: Abdulkarim Ssengendo

LENGTH: 419  words

DATELINE: Kampala


THE American government is to resettle 5,800 refugees from Nakivale refugee camp
in Isingiro district to the United States, Prosy Katura, the UN refugee agency
(UNHCR) protection officer, has revealed.

Katura said a team has already been sent to Nakivale to scrutinise the refugees
to ensure they have no links with al-Qaeda, an extremist group.

The American taskforce at the camp will also study files of individual refugees
since they arrived in Uganda.

During a meeting with the Germany ambassador to Uganda, Reinhard Buchholz, who
visited the camp on Friday, Katura said the exercise under the "expedited Somali
resettlement programme" should be completed by September. "We have so far
scrutinised about 2,000 Somalis out of 5,800 who are living in Nakivale."

Explaining the reason of resettling Somalis to the US, Katura said Somali
refugees have failed to integrate with other refugee groups living in Nakivale
and with the local communities because of their unique language and culture.

She added that the group cannot go back to Somalia since the country is still
unstable and they fear to be killed and persecuted. Nakivale has about 470,000
refugees from Somalia, Rwanda, Sudan, Congo, Burundi, Kenya and Eritrea. There
are other refugees in Uganda, in camps of Kyangwari, Orukinga and Kyaka.

During Buchholz's visit, Burundian refugees also demanded to be resettled to a
third country, arguing that they, too, have stayed in the camp for a long time
and cannot be repatriated.

The United States resettles refugees largely according to country of origin as
well as the urgency of the situation.

Even though the US remains the world's largest country of resettlement, its
refugee admissions have been steadily declining over the last decade,
particularly since the September 11 terrorist attacks. The number of refugees
admitted went down from 132,000 in 1992 to about 28,000 in 2003.

Resettlement patterns in American states are generally dominated by certain
ethnic communities. Many Somali and Ethiopian refugees have been resettled in
Minnesota.

The UNHCR is a partner in the US refugee resettlement programme and identifies
those refugees most in need of urgent resettlement.

The agency has identified three "durable solutions" to refugee concerns:
voluntary return to the country of origin, local integration in the host
community, or resettlement to a third country.

Resettlement is most often promoted by UNHCR "when individual refugees are at
risk, or when there are other reasons to help them leave the region."

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              530 of 996 DOCUMENTS


            Intelligencer Journal/New Era (Lancaster, Pennsylvania)

                            January 7, 2010 Thursday

Peter Dyck, Mcc Administrator

SECTION: B; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 246  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


Peter J. Dyck, author, pastor and Russian refugee worker with Mennonite Central
Committee, died of cancer Monday in Scottdale. He was 95.

Born in Russia, Dyck and his family were rescued during the Russian Revolution
by food shipments sent from Mennonites in Canada and the United States, an act
of kindness he would not forget.

During World War II, he served with MCC in England. Once the war ended, he moved
to the Netherlands to direct a massive relief effort.

In 1946, Dyck set up refugee camps in Germany for thousands of Mennonites who
had fled the Soviet Union and later led 5,500 Mennonites by boat to South
America, predominantly Paraguay. This experience provided the basis of the book,
"Up From the Rubble," that he co-authored with his wife.

Dyck also directed the MCC program in Germany and North Africa.

In the 1970s, Dyck moved into an administrative position with MCC in Akron,
where he was responsible for East-West relations in the midst of the Cold War.

Dyck assisted Baptist World Alliance as the organization successfully negotiated
with Soviet authorities for permission to make biblical commentaries available.
He also served as a Mennonite pastor in Moundridge, Kan., and Scottdale.

A memorial service will be held at 2 p.m. Saturday at Akron Mennonite Church. In
lieu of flowers and as a memorial tribute to his life of service, the family
asks that contributions be made to the Peter J. Dyck Peace and Justice
Scholarship at Goshen College (www.goshen.edu/give).

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Peter Dyck

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Lancaster Newspapers, Inc.


                              531 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             January 4, 2010 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

Somalis seeking asylum take back-door route to U.S.;
Suspension of refugee program has put them on Latin American path

BYLINE: Amy Taxin

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 794 words

DATELINE: LANCASTER, CALIF.


The asylum seeker from Somalia hung his head as an immigration judge grilled him
about his treacherous journey from the Horn of Africa. By air, sea and land he
finally made it to Mexico, and then a taxi delivered him into the arms of U.S.
border agents at San Diego.

Islamic militants had killed his brother, Mohamed Ahmed Kheire testified, and
majority clan members had beaten his sister. He had to flee Mogadishu to live.

The voice of the judge, beamed by videoconference from Seattle, crackled loudly
over a speaker in the mostly empty courtroom near the detention yard in the
desert north of Los Angeles. He wanted to know why Kheire had no family
testimony to corroborate his asylum claim.

Kheire, 31, said he didn't have access to e-mail in detention and didn't think
to ask while writing to family on his perilous trek.

It seemed like the end of Kheire's dream as he waited for the judge's ruling. He
clasped his hands, his plastic jail bracelet dangling from his wrist, and looked
up at the ceiling, murmuring words of prayer.

Kheire is one of hundreds of Somalis in the past two years to have staked
everything on a wild asylum gamble by following immigration routes to the United
States traditionally traveled by Latinos.

With the suspension of a U.S. refugee program and stepped-up security in the
Gulf of Aden and along Mediterranean smuggling routes, more overseas migrants
from Somalia are pursuing asylum through what one expert calls the "back door."

"The U.S. has closed most of the doors for Somalis to come in through the
refugee program, so they've found alternative ways to get in," said Mark
Hetfield, senior vice president for policy and programs at the Hebrew Immigrant
Aid Society. "This is their new route." About 1,500 people from around the world
showed up in U.S. airports and on the borders seeking asylum during the 2009
fiscal year, according to statistics from U.S. Customs and Border Protection.

Somalis were the biggest group to make the journey, with most arriving in San
Diego. More than 240 Somalis arrived during that period -- more than twice as
many as the year before.

Most Somalis have reached the United States -- there are about 87,000 here --
through U.S.-sponsored refugee-resettlement programs. But the State Department
suspended a family-reunification program for refugees in 2008 over fraud
concerns. The number of Somalis admitted by refugee programs dwindled to about
4,000 last year.

Those now traveling through Latin America are taking a path well worn by asylum
seekers from other countries. Immigration lawyers say they have worked with
clients from Ethiopia and Iraq who also reached the United States through
Mexico.

"To get a flight from Africa to Europe is very hard. The easiest place to go is
America," said Yahya Idardon, an asylum seeker who fled Somalia last year after
his father and brother were killed. "Africa to Latin America is easy. . . . When
you are going to Latin America, no one is concerned about you, no one is asking,
so it is easy to go there and cross all these countries." Once reaching the U.S.
border in San Diego, Somalis are frisked, fingerprinted and screened by an
asylum officer to gauge whether they have a credible fear of returning home.

They are then shuttled to an immigration detention center until their cases go
to court.

About 80 Somalis are being held in Lancaster, a detention center 50 miles north
of Los Angeles. Dozens more have been held in San Diego and the remote border
town of El Centro, immigration lawyers said.

On Jan. 4, the government plans to start releasing many asylum seekers while
they wait for their immigration cases to be heard. It is unclear how many
Somalis will be let out; they must prove their identity and many don't have
documents. And still others say they have nowhere to go even if they were freed,
their attorneys said.

Compared with asylum seekers from other countries, Somalis have been more likely
to win their cases, according to immigration court statistics.

But in the courtroom in Lancaster, Kheire spent the last moments of his hearing
worried that the judge would send him back to Mogadishu to face the threat of
death -- even after he had survived such a harrowing journey.

The attorneys for Kheire and the government sat quietly in the courtroom,
listening to the judge read the ruling as Kheire prayed.

A Somali interpreter whispered urgently into Kheire's ear. He broke into a
hesitant smile. He would be allowed to stay.

Kheire left the courtroom in his black, laceless sneakers and jail jumpsuit,
escorted by sheriff's officials. Later that night, he was dropped off by
authorities at a nearby train station. He had $5 in his pocket.

"They said, 'This is America. Welcome to the United States of America,' " Kheire
said.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Damian Dovarganes/associated Press; Mohamed Ahmed Kheire, right,
consults with Esperanza Immigrant Rights Project detention lawyer James Lyall in
Los Angeles.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              532 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                             January 3, 2010 Sunday

Afghanistan: Migration and the Issue of Afghan Refugees

LENGTH: 507  words

DATELINE: Pakistan


Pakistan, Jan. 03 -- With the development of technology and transportation
vehicles, the new changes crept into world and distorted previous form. Though,
several factors played their own roles in shaping and forming the new world but
among them the "migration" can be single out.

With the development of various countries and escalating needs for skillful and
professional labors as well as simple workers, large numbers of people migrated
from their own countries seeking better livelihoods and social status in host
countries. The search for better life beyond the borders of their own states is
not the recent phenomena though, but it outstandingly increased and mounted due
to lower standard of life in the motherland. Annually thousands of people from
third world countries, Africa, Asia and Latin America, are migrating to Europe
and to United States of America. The migration issue is also not restricted to
European Union and United States of America; it takes place in many other parts
of the world. For instance, Middle East and Arab countries, because of having
large natural resources, attracted attention of large numbers of labors to
themselves for gaining higher wages. Basically, some of these migrations are
legal and are being performed through legitimate procedures but large sum of
migrations are not legal and are not followed by the legitimate process. The
second form of migration happens while; people are forced to leave their own
countries due to certain factors that hampering and deterring them from safety
lives. Even the right to live, right to liberty and right to property, the three
basic rights, are under threat of violation. The lack of security, peace and
protection forces people to leave their motherland and seek refuge to other
countries. Afghan refugees are coming under the second category of migration.
Since life in Afghanistan is under the perpetual threats from the extremist
groups, Taliban and Al-Qaeda, people are forced to leave the country and seek
refuge in neighboring countries Iran and Pakistan. Though, after the outstation
of Taliban regime by the coalition force under US-led on 2001, Afghan refugees
started voluntarily returning back but in order not facing peace, security and
protection, remarkable numbers got back to host countries. though, both
countries, Iran and Pakistan held plan the to coerce the illegal Afghan refugees
to leave but due to critical situation in Afghanistan and resistance of
refugees, still remarkable numbers of refugees are living in these two
countries. So during the period of democratic government under presidency of
Hamid Karzai, UNHCR and Afghan government tried to provide basic necessities of
refugees to motivate them to come back. But in spite of Afghan government and
United Nation High Commission for Refugee (UNHCR)'s efforts large numbers are
not willing to come back. Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right
Vision News. For more information on news feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              533 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                         Daily Dispatch (South Africa)

                           September 8, 2009 Tuesday

SA awaits Canada decision on refugee

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 254 words


THE Department of International Relations said it would wait for the Canadian
government to decide about refugee status for a white South African who claimed
to be a victim of black racism.


 Brandon Huntley claimed he had been targeted by black criminals while living in
South Africa, and caused a storm last week when he was granted refugee status by
Canadian authorities.
  He now faces an uncertain future following the Canadian Department of
Citizenship and Immigration's application for leave to appeal his refugee
status.
  Nomfanelo Kota, departmental spokesperson, said the department would wait for
Canada's courts to rule on the matter before it decided on any course of action.

  It has now been reported that there are other South Africans across the world
who have been granted refugee status. There are 170 South Africans in Germany,
111 in the US, 46 in Ireland, 33 in Canada, 25 in the UK, 18 in France and 15 in
Australia.

  Since Huntley's story broke last week, politicians and South Africans staying
abroad have lashed out at the Canadian authorities for their decision to grant
him refugee status.
 Stacey Dlamini, a Canadian woman who married into a Zulu family eight years
ago, described Huntley's assertions as "ludicrous".
 "I married into a great, big Zulu family. As a white person, I've always been
treated with more acceptance, warmth and hospitality than I probably deserved."

 However, some people have said Huntley had valid reasons to flee South Africa.
- The Times, Avusa Group News
 See page 8

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Daily Dispatch


                    Copyright 2009 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              534 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                            The Times (South Africa)

                            September 4, 2009 Friday

Canadian refugee system to blame for 'bogus' claim

BYLINE: James Boyce

SECTION: OPINION & EDITORIAL

LENGTH: 289 words


AS A Canadian, I wanted to make it clear that what you are hearing about
refugees in Canada does not necessarily represent a particular belief about
South Africa, but in reality it is just a reflection of our broken refugee
system.



 Just a month ago the Canadian government imposed visa restrictions for visitors
from Mexico and the Czech Republic.
 This was done because Canada was being flooded with thousands of illegitimate
refugee claims every year from these countries, though some are actually
legitimate.
  The problem is that a person can literally make any claim they want and it
will be accepted.

 This is what prompted the unprecedented apology by the prime minister of Canada
to the Mexican president. In that apology, Prime Minister Stephen Harper said at
the North American Leaders' Summit in Guadalajara, Mexico, on August 10: "...
This is not the fault of the government of Mexico. This is a problem with
Canadian refugee law, which encourages bogus claims. I hope our parliament will
take advantage of the attention brought on this issue to deal with this
problem."

 This is really not a story about whites in South Africa, but about the Canadian
refugee system that is broken and the authorities will believe any story they
are told.
  There have even been some asylum claims from American citizens. Are we to
suggest that the US is an abusive country too?

 No. The only thing wrong here is that Canada has a refugee system that is
horribly broken, and the current minority government in Canada doesn't have the
power to fix it. - James Boyce, Toronto, Canada
 TWISTED ASYLUM: Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper. A reader from Canada
says his government's broken refugee system accepts dubious asylum seekers
Picture: AP

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Times


                         Copyright 2009 AVUSA Media LTD
                              All Rights Reserved


                              535 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           Christian Science Monitor

                            July 22, 2009, Wednesday

Hope and home for refugees

BYLINE: Sharon Carper

SECTION: THE HOME FORUM; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 501 words


While the developed countries of Europe and the Northern Hemisphere are coping
with refugees assimilating into their societies, waves of family groups in
poverty-stricken Latin America and war-torn parts of Africa and the Near East
are yearning for security and protection.

I used to process refugees in Western Africa for resettlement in the United
States. I met people longing not only for better lives but for basic rights and
freedom from fear. At times, their stories were so graphic and compelling that I
wanted to just wrap my arms around them. What comforted me during these times
was the promise of God's infinite care for them. This statement in Psalms says
it all: "Whither shall I go from thy spirit? or whither shall I flee from thy
presence? If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there: if I make my bed in hell,
behold, thou art there" (139:7, 8).

I knew as I spoke to each refugee that God, who is Love, had never abandoned
them. I knew that the divine Father-Mother of all was loving them - loving all
His-Her children. That is a concept that became truer to me during my 18 months
of refugee casework. I went to bed every night praying for the well-being and
protection of the people I talked to. It was the only way I could keep peace of
mind; otherwise, the accounts I heard could have haunted me, and I wouldn't have
been able to help them.

One woman's story of fleeing the civil war in Sierra Leone was so upsetting that
even retelling it brought back the horrors of her vulnerability at the hands of
the rebels. But it was my job as a caseworker to build her story into a file so
that the US immigration officials would approve her case.

I remember praying as this young woman dissolved into tears and refused to say
any more. It helped me to know that God is actually Father and Mother, as Mary
Baker Eddy, the founder of the Monitor, wrote in "Science and Health with Key to
the Scriptures": "Father-Mother is the name for Deity, which indicates His
tender relationship to His spiritual creation" (p. 332).

I reached across the table and gently put my hand over hers. This touch seemed
to comfort her. I told her that we needed to finish her story so I could
complete her file and make a strong case for the immigration officials. I
assured her that she was safe, and that her future was bright. She immediately
responded. Calmly, she described the rest of her escape. Her case was reviewed
the next day and approved for US resettlement. She found me that afternoon and
thanked me. I thanked her for sharing her story, and wished her well in her new
life.

The hope expressed in a hymn by Desiree Goyette in the "Christian Science Hymnal
Supplement" (No. 444) is a benediction for all of us, whether we help in refugee
affairs or send our prayers out for peace and security to all our brothers and
sisters:

Governed by Love, you're safe and secure;

I am forever beside thee.

So rest and know wher-e'er you go,

Home and heav'n cannot be denied thee.

(c) Copyright 2009. The Christian Science Monitor

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2009 The Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved


                              536 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                              July 3, 2009 Friday
                                  Main Edition

Somali crisis not far for Clarkston

BYLINE: Dorian B. Crosby; For the AJC

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 550 words


Who cares about Somalia? It's a troubled country far away in East Africa. What
does last month's deadly suicide bombing have to do with Atlanta?

Perhaps you think piracy off the Aden coast is simply a global political and
economic matter, not a personal one that impacts you or anyone you know.

But there is a connection between Somalia and metro Atlanta.

Just five miles northeast of Atlanta is one of our most multicultural areas.
Clarkston is home to refugees and immigrants from all parts of the world, many
of them from Somalia.

The Clarkston community has grown over the years to approximately 5,000, making
it one of the largest communities of Somalis in the United States, second only
to Minneapolis.

The first Somali refugees and immigrants arrived in Georgia in 1988 as a result
of Somalia's civil war.

With the ousting of the inflexible leader Siad Barre in 1991, the country was
left without a central government. First, ethnic clans fought for control in the
1990s.

Then, the extremist Islamic group al-Shabab fought the fragile, western-backed
Transitional National Government for control in 2006.

The political instability has provided the background for current power
struggles in Somalia. The steady economic decline has led to desperate
situations of survival.

Many Somalis have fled to refugee camps or left the country. But millions remain
trapped.

The United Nations estimates that more than 3 million people depend on
international aid organizations for their basic needs. However, those services
are constantly hampered because of violence.

Clarkston Somalis have relatives in Somalia, Dadaab refugee camp in Kenya and
neighboring African countries.

However, the majority have begun new lives in Australia, Canada, Europe and the
United States.

Somalis want to return, but to what? Most of southern and central Somalia is
controlled by al-Shabab. The capital, Mogadishu, is in ruins, and piracy abounds
in the semi-autonomous northeastern region known as Puntland because of an
inadequate economy.

For Somalis in Clarkston, the idea of returning grows dimmer, but they remain
hopeful.

There are many reasons returning to Somalia will take time: a weak government, a
strong and strict Islamic presence and no viable economy.

But metro Atlanta's link to Somalia can be strengthened by financially
supporting local organizations such as CARE, which distributes food and other
necessities in Somalia.

We also can volunteer with such organizations. Our efforts can begin by
observing U.N. World Refugee Day, which is observed every year on June 20. As an
international city, we must recognize how personal some global issues are.

So, the next time you are stuck in traffic or are at work or in a grocery store,
think about what the person next to you might be going through.

For some, the capture, trial and sentencing of the young Somali pirate in New
York is not just a story.

Neither are reports of millions dying and suffering in Somalia from violence,
malnourishment and rape.

Nor are the missing Somali boys from Minneapolis suspected to have been
recruited by al-Shabab.

These are relatives, friends and former neighbors. It is emotional to hear and
see the news because for some, Somalia's woes hit home.

Dorian Crosby is a lecturer of political science and international relations at
Spelman College.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2009 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              537 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 24, 2009 Wednesday

Somali refugees in Ethiopia said to be resettled in USA

LENGTH: 218 words


Text of report by privately-owned Somali Shabeelle Media Network website on 23
June

The United Nations refugee agency, UNHCR, has said that it is planning to
resettle more than 6,300 Somali refugees in Ethiopia to the United States.

Bakele Negash, UNHCR representative in the Kabribayah refugee camp in Jijiga,
Ethiopia, speaking at a function to mark the World Refugee Day said the UNHCR
has decided to resettle these Somali refugees who have been living in the camp
in the last 18 years to the United States.

More than 29,000 Somali refugees have been resettled in the United States in the
past through a collective exercise by the United Nations and the United States
immigration. There are more than 42,000 Somali refugees in the Kabribayah camp,
some of whom are expected to be resettled in America. The UNHCR said the
decision to resettle these refugees to Somalia comes after the American congress
debated the issue and agreed to resettle these refugees in the country. The
UNHCR official said the refugees will be relocated as soon as the United States
government gives the go ahead.

The UN refugee agency has said that this is part of wider measures taken to
assist Somali refugees who are fleeing from the fighting in their country.

Source: Shabeelle Media Network website, Mogadishu, in Somali 23 Jun 09

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              538 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       Financial Times (London, England)

                             May 20, 2009 Wednesday
                                 USA Edition 1

Scale of exodus from Swat spurs US aid pledge

BYLINE: Farhan Bokhari in Islamabad, James Lamont in New Delhi and Daniel Dombey
in Washington

SECTION: WORLD NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 472 words



HIGHLIGHT: Up to 2m displaced by military action

Figures rivals those last seen in Rwanda


The US said yesterday that it was providing $110m (EUR81m, £72m) in emergency
assistance to Pakistan, as international aid agencies warned that the scale of
displacement from military action in the Swat valley threatened to rival that
caused by the Rwandan genocide in 1994.

The comparisons have been sparked by comments from the UN refugee agency that
fighting between Pakistan's military and Taliban militants is uprooting people
faster than any other conflict since the slaughter of ethnic Tutsis that took
place in the central African country 15 years ago.

An estimated 1.5m-2m people are estimated to have been displaced in North West
Frontier Province as the army confronts Islamist militants in an offensive that
comes as close as 120km to Islamabad.

"It has been a long time since there has been a displacement this big," said Ron
Redmond, the UNHCR's spokesman. "It could go back to Rwanda. It's an enormous
number of people."

About 800,000 Rwandans fled to Zaire in four days in July 1994. A month later
approximately 2.1m refugees were in neighbouring countries.

"The current emergency is on the scale of the mass displacement we saw during
the disastrous wars in Rwanda and Bosnia, and much more funding is required to
cope with the influx," said Mike Young, the International Rescue Committee's
Pakistan country representative.

He said hundreds of thousands of civilians were trapped in the conflict zone and
warned that insufficient emergency resources and soaring summer temperatures
could lead to violence breaking out among the refugee population.

Relief agencies are warning that the number of refugees in Pakistan is not
likely to stabilise while fighting continues.

Zahid Mahmood, Programme Co-ordinator of Care International in Islamabad, said
the number of refugees could swell in the coming weeks to as many as 3m people.

"It's impossible to go into the area. There is a high level of threat," he said.

The US money will primarily go towards food staples, tents and an emergency
response centre. "President Obama is determined to match our words with our
actions, because Pakistan's government is leading the fight against extremists
that threaten the future of their country and our collective security," said
Hillary Clinton, US Secretary of State.

Sarah Crowe, Unicef's regional chief of communications, said relief camps in
Pakistan were now the biggest in the world exceeding those of Sri Lanka and
Darfur in Sudan.

"The civilian population is getting it from all sides - from the militants, from
the counter-insurgency operation and from sectarian conflict. It's a triple
whammy for them," she said.

"This is the biggest internal displacement in Pakistan's history. If they (the
army) go fighting in other areas there will be a bigger outflow of displaced
people," said Ian Bray at Oxfam, the UK-based relief agency.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The Financial Times Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              539 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                        Wyoming Tribune-Eagle (Cheyenne)

                              May 19, 2009 Tuesday

BYLINE: Karen Cotton

SECTION: FEATURES; Entertainment News; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 600 words


By Karen Cotton

kcotton@wyomingnews.com

You might not know who is Chris Velan is yet, but he helped put the Refugee All
Stars on the map.

In the process, he became inspired to follow his own musical aspirations and now
this guitarist and singer/songwriter from Montreal, Canada, is touring the
United States to promote his new album.

"Solidago" was released on NewSong Recordings on April 7.

You can hear him live three times in the region this week, including locally at
Synergy Cafe on Saturday.

In February of last year, Velan signed with NewSong Recordings, a small record
label out of Brooklyn, N.Y.

He previously released two albums: "It's Not What You Think" in 2003 and
"Twitter Buzz Howl" in 2006. Both were released independently.

Montreal is Velan's home base.

"But, I've spent the past two years on the road," Velan said in a phone
interview from Texas.

Velan's musical influences are diverse, running the range from Bob Dylan to
Leonard Cohen and Willie Nelson to Van Morrison. Added to the mix would be his
sister's early 80's New Wave cassettes and his uncle's extensive reggae vinyl
collection.

"My music has world music influences of reggae and music from West Africa, but
it's more folk pop and rock," he said. "I've tried to come with a word that
combines them all, but I haven't, yet."

Before Velan pursued music full-time he was an apprentice attorney at a law firm
in Vancouver.

That quickly changed when he got a phone call from some of his friends asking
him to join their film making project in West Africa.

Velan and his friends filmed a documentary about the band Refugee All Stars
called "Sierra Leone's Refugee All Stars."

They shot and worked in West Africa for two months in the summer of 2002 and
another in the springs of 2003 and 2004 each.

The documentary focused on the role that music plays in the refugee populations
of displaced people.

They spent a month touring refugee camps, putting on concerts and inviting local
artists to play.

"I played my music and my two friends were filming," he said. "That's how we met
the band Refugee All Stars, and we made the film about them."

Two good things came out of that experience.

First, Velan realized he wanted to do music for a living. Second, the film
helped the Refugee All Stars get signed to a publishing deal.

Velan also produced the Refugee All Stars' first studio work, some of the first
live instrument recordings there since the start of the civil war in Sierra
Leone.

"It was an amazing project to be part of, and it had a lot of influence on me
musically," Velan said. "It was life changing."

Velan said he had written and played music since he was 14.

"The band reconnected me to my music, and that's how I started on my solo
career," he said.

If you hear him live, you'll have an opportunity to hear selections from
"Solidago."

"There's a song on 'Solidago' called 'Oldest Trick,' which is a surprisingly
more of a rocking song," Velan said. "It's different from what I've done in the
past, and has a driving back beat to it.

"Then there's a song called, 'A Year Can Change a Lot' and it has an African
influence in its DNA."

"Go Easy" is another one of Velan's songs where he only sings and is accompanied
by a pianist and an electric guitar.

"I'm fond of that song because it's nice to focus on the vocal performance
instead of the instrumental performance," Velan said. "It's good to step out of
certain patterns in songwriting."

He said he hopes to play for an hour and a half at Synergy Cafe and is looking
forward to drinking the tea there.

"Sometimes I'll keep playing longer, until they pull the plug," Velan said with
a laugh.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Cheyenne Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              540 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                              May 2, 2009 Saturday

New book says FDR tried to save Jewish refugees

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 140 words


NEW YORK (AP) - A new book disputes widely held assumptions that President
Franklin D. Roosevelt was insensitive to the plight of European Jews under the
Nazis, and instead concludes that he tried to arrange resettlement for thousands
of refugees in the late 1930s, only to be thwarted by his own State Department.

The book, "Refugees and Rescue," claims FDR developed plans in 1938 for the
United States to fill its immigration quota with 27,000 Jews from Germany and
Austria and to send others to British-held Palestine and friendly nations in
Africa and Latin America.

"Most of the initiatives to resettle refugees in underdeveloped areas proved
impossible, met substantial resistance abroad, or developed very slowly partly
because of resistance by the Department of State," the Center for Jewish History
says in a statement about the book.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2009 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                              541 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                              May 2, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

SECTION: A:DAILY CAMERA; Pg. 09

LENGTH: 273 words


Nation & world briefs

New York

Book: FDR tried to save Jewish refugees before WWII

A new book disputes widely held assumptions that President Franklin D. Roosevelt
was insensitive to the plight of European Jews under the Nazis, and instead
concludes that he tried to arrange resettlement for thousands of refugees in the
late 1930s, only to be thwarted by his own State Department.

The book, "Refugees and Rescue," claims FDR developed plans in 1938 for the
United States to fill its immigration quota with 27,000 Jews from Germany and
Austria and to send others to British-held Palestine and friendly nations in
Africa and Latin America.

Afghanistan

U.S. deaths reach 607

As of Friday, at least 607 members of the U.S. military had died in Afghanistan,
Pakistan and Uzbekistan as a result of the U.S. invasion of Afghanistan in late
2001, according to the Defense Department. The department last updated its
figures Friday.

The latest deaths reported by the military:

Three American troops

died Friday in an attack in eastern Afghanistan.

No identifications were reported by the military.

Iraq

U.S. deaths climb to 4,281

As of Friday, at least 4,281 members of the U.S. military had died in the Iraq
war since it began in March 2003, according to an Associated Press count.

The AP count is the same as the Defense Department's tally, last updated Friday.

The latest deaths reported by the military:

Two Marines

died Thursday while conducting combat operations in Anbar province.

The latest identification

:

Navy Petty Officer 2nd Class Tyler J. Trahan,

22, East Freetown, Mass.; died Thursday while conducting combat operations in
Fallujah.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2009 Daily Camera and Boulder Publishing, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              542 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 1, 2009 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Roosevelt And the Jews: A Debate Rekindled

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1223 words


Franklin Delano Roosevelt's legacy has been slid back under the microscope
recently as    his efforts to pull the country out of the Great Depression are
scrutinized. Now a piece of his foreign policy is also being re-evaluated  in a
soon-to-be published book that upends a widely held view that he was indifferent
to the fate of Europe's Jews, and asserts that  new evidence shows that the
president pushed for an ambitious secret rescue plan before the war began.

The book,  an edited collection of official documents, diaries, internal memos
and more,   contends that Roosevelt hatched a scheme in 1938 to rally the
world's democracies and relocate millions of European Jews to undeveloped areas
in Latin America and Africa.

''It is a book that will change the consensus about the role of President
Roosevelt,'' said Deborah Lipstadt, a leading expert on the Holocaust, who has
read some sections. It ''compels historians  --  both those who have vilified
F.D.R. and those who have sanctified him  -- to rethink their conclusions.''

The book, ''Refugees and Rescue: The Diaries and Papers of James G. McDonald,
1935-1945,''  will undoubtedly reignite the charged debate over whether
Roosevelt could have done more to rescue millions of Jews, Gypsies, gay people,
dissidents and others who died in Nazi death camps. To his detractors, the
refusal in June 1939 to take in any of the more than 900  Jews aboard the ocean
liner  St. Louis who were seeking a haven after Germany's deadly Kristallnacht
is much more emblematic of the United States' response. Many of those passengers
ultimately died.

This is the second of a three-volume set of Mr. McDonald's papers being
published by Indiana University Press in association with the United States
Holocaust Memorial Museum. Mr. McDonald was the high commissioner for refugees
for the League of Nations, the chairman of a presidential advisory committee on
refugees and later the first American ambassador to Israel. The book also
includes material from the Center for Jewish History and the Holocaust Museum.

The editors -- the historians Richard Breitman, Barbara McDonald Stewart and
Severin Hochberg -- maintain that   Roosevelt did a lot, given Congress's
implacable resistance to raising the quota on immigrants. Rather than publicly
support measures  revising the quotas,   which he was sure would fail, he
instead proposed an alternate means of escape behind the scenes, even pledging
at one point to ask Congress to appropriate $150 million for resettlement.

''He was a man of grand vision who wanted to resettle a much larger number of
refugees from Germany'' and elsewhere, the editors  conclude, citing a directive
from Washington in June 1938 indicating that officials should deal with ''the
problems of refugees from all countries.'' They agree that such efforts were
completely dropped in 1940 when Roosevelt turned his attention to the war.

One of the new pieces of evidence that the editors point to  is a summary
written by Arthur Sweetser,  a director of the secretariat of  the League of
Nations, describing a meeting between himself and the president on April 4,
1938:

Mr. Sweetser wrote that Roosevelt  asked him how he liked his refugee proposal.
'' 'That was my proposal,' the president quickly interjected, tapping his chest
with obvious pleasure. 'I worked that out myself.' ''

The summary continues, with Mr. Sweetser quoting Roosevelt: '' 'Suddenly it
struck me: why not get all the democracies to unite to share the burden? After
all, they own most of the free land of the world, and there are only ... what
would you say, 14, 16 million Jews in the whole world, of whom about half are
already in the United States. If we could divide up the remainder in groups of 8
or 10, there wouldn't be any Jewish problem in three or four generations.' ''

In a confidential memo to Mr. McDonald dated May 17, 1938, Mr. Sweetser wrote,
''The  President's proposal took a large place in the League's refugee
deliberations this past week.''

Paul Shapiro, director of the museum's Center for Advanced Holocaust Studies,
said, ''What is quite striking here is that at this moment in 1938 Roosevelt is
very seized by this issue of rescuing the Jews.'' Germany's occupation of
Austria showed how much life changed overnight for Jews there. The book includes
''important new documentation about F.D.R. and his efforts to save the Jews,''
he added. Roosevelt supported using German, French and British colonies in
Africa and elsewhere as well as countries in South America as possible havens.
And he privately nudged the British to let more Jews into Palestine, said Mr.
Breitman, a history professor at American University.

Mr. Hochberg, who teaches at George Washington University, said: ''As a result
of these efforts, Bolivia saved over 20,000 Jews between 1938 and 1944  --  in
proportion to its size, more than any other American nation. Without the
Bolivian option, many of these Jews would have died during the Holocaust.''

By the spring of 1939, the most promising strategy seemed to be an agreement
with Berlin that would permit a privately financed foundation to resettle
refugees, the editors state. The proposal was contentious because some Jews
didn't trust Germany and feared that it amounted to tacit approval of
confiscation of Jewish assets.

On May 4, 1939, Roosevelt met at the White House with Jewish leaders and told
them that there was no time to set up a new foundation, but that an existing
organization should immediately agree to the plan.

''It was not so much a question of the money as it was of actual lives, and the
president was convinced that the warnings given by our embassy in Berlin were
sound and not exaggerated,'' according to the diary of Jay Pierrepont Moffat, a
State Department official at the meeting.

Refugee leaders were still at odds when Hitler invaded Poland on Sept. 1.

David Wyman and Rafael Medoff of the Wyman Institute for Holocaust Studies in
Washington, who have written extensively about America's response to the
persecution of Jews, are  unimpressed with the excerpts from ''Refugees and
Rescue'' that they've read.

Most of the actions have been mentioned in some form before, they said in a
statement. In their view,  Roosevelt may have talked about some pie-in-the-sky
plans, but when it came to taking  substantive action, he did nothing. For
instance, they said, he opposed the 1939 Wagner-Rogers bill that would have
permitted the United States to take in 20,000 Jewish children from Germany in
addition to the existing German-Austrian quota of 27,370.

''F.D.R. failed to ask for that $150 million, just as he failed to support
Wagner-Rogers,'' they said. ''Both actions by F.D.R. indicate his lack of
seriousness about helping Jewish refugees.'' They added  that his
''administration discouraged and obstructed would-be immigrants.''

To Mr. Shapiro, whether this new material will drastically change the way people
see Roosevelt depends on their existing disposition. ''Probably none of us will
ever know what was really in F.D.R.'s mind at a given time,'' he said. For those
who see the potential of  an individual's   being moved by the Jewish tragedy,
''they will find that here.'' As for others, he added, they will say, ''in the
end, it didn't stop the murder of six million Jews.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, from left, President Roosevelt in 1937
Arthur Sweetser, a director of the secretariat of the League of Nations
members of Roosevelt's advisory committee on political refugees, Hamilton F.
Armstrong, Sumner Welles, George Warren and James G. McDonald
Jewish refugees in 1940 on the steamship Quanza at Norfolk, Va. Below, an
excerpt from a memo by Mr. Sweetser.(PHOTOGRAPH BY THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY UNITED STATES HOLOCAUST MEMORIAL MUSEUM)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY UNITED STATES HOLOCAUST MEMORIAL MUSEUM)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMERICAN JEWISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY COLLECTION AT THE CENTER FOR
JEWISH HISTORY) (pg. C30)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


                              543 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           Pittsburgh Tribune Review

                            April 16, 2009 Thursday

Pine-Richland students welcome immigrants with household gifts

BYLINE: Karen Zapf

LENGTH: 366 words


When Pine-Richland Middle School teacher Susan Frantz talked with her students
about participating in the "Welcome to America" program that provides household
goods to refugee families coming to the United States, eighth-grader Sara
Kallams immediately began thinking about how she could help.

"I brought in towels and clothes for a family that has a 2-year-old," said
Kallams, 14, of Pine.

About 30 eighth-graders collected about $3,000 in household goods for two
families due to arrive this week from Bhutan, India, and settle in the South
Hills.

On Monday, students and family members loaded trucks and vans with bedding,
lamps, dishes, curtains and more.

The youngsters helped decorate the apartments, adding personal touches as well
-- hanging pictures and arranging candles and flowers, for example.

"It helps them to appreciate what they have in their life so much more than if
they would not have done it," Frantz said.

She said the families come to the United States from refugee camps with just a
plastic bag containing their passports and other documents.

The middle school's students got interested in Welcome to America, sponsored by
Catholic Charities, nine years ago after they read a story in English class
about a refugee boy and his father coming to America from Vietnam, Frantz said.

Frantz said students have welcomed families from Russia, Africa, Bosnia and
Afghanistan.

After the families from India settle in, the students will return to the South
Hills to meet them.

They will speak, through an interpreter, with the family and learn about the
conditions that brought the refugees to the America.

"It's important for them to meet the families and make the connection," Frantz
said. "The students see how appreciative they are. They bow a thousand times to
the kids."

Kallams is excited to meet the immigrants. "It will be neat to see how they
are," she said.

Frantz said students take the experience back to the classroom, writing essays,
poems and stories about what it means to be in a land of the free. The writings
are submitted to magazines for publication.

"They learn what starts in the classroom doesn't stay there," Frantz said. "It
goes out and comes back in."

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2009 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              544 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Philadelphia Daily News

                          February 18, 2009 Wednesday
                                 FINAL Edition

Fleeing to Philly: Thousands of Liberians seek asylum here

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE FARR; farrs@phillynews.com 215-854-4225

SECTION: LOCAL; P-com Biggie News Update; Pg. 03

LENGTH: 390 words


During the 1800s, Americans of African descent moved in the thousands to
Liberia, a West African country founded by freed slaves.

But two civil wars spanning from 1989 to 2003 turned the tide and Liberians fled
their homeland in record numbers for asylum in the United States, with thousands
settling in the Philadelphia area.

Between 1990 and 2009, 32,543 Liberian refugees were admitted nationwide, said
David M. Santos, northeast regional media manager with U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services.

By 2006, more Liberian refugees had resettled in the greater Philadelphia area
than in any other metropolitan region in the country, according to a 2008 report
from the Brookings Institute, a public-policy nonprofit organization based in
Washington, D.C.

Current estimates of Liberians living in the Delaware Valley range between
10,000 and more than 15,000, with many in Southwest Philadelphia and Upper
Darby, according to the Historical Society of Pennsylvania.

Often, Liberian refugees followed relatives who had already settled in the area,
Santos said.

"If a refugee has a close relative in the U.S., the refugee will likely be
resettled where the family member lives," he said. "If not, a resettlement
agency will decide the best place for resettlement based on the availability of
jobs and services."

Refugees are given employment authorization and after a year are required to
apply for lawful permanent-resident status, Santos said. Refugees are eligible
for naturalization five years after they arrive in the United States.

In 2006, Liberia was taken off a U.S. Refugee Admission Program's list, which
allows people to apply for refugee status if they have a parent, spouse or child
in the United States. Liberians can still apply for refugee status if they
receive a referral from the United Nations High Council on Refugees, a U.S.
embassy or a "specially trained nongovernmental organization," Santos said.

Since 1980, more than 2 million refugees from around the world have resettled in
the United States.

The country of origin of refugees fluctuates in line with geopolitical events,
Santos said. For example, in the '80s and '90s, many came from the former Soviet
Union and Vietnam, but in 2000, the number of refugees from African countries
surged.

Today, many of America's refugees come from Burma, Bhutan and Iraq, Santos said.
*

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              545 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                            November 30, 2008 Sunday
                                 First Edition

Keeping the beat;
Sudan 'Lost Boys and Girls' seek help

BYLINE: Heath Urie Camera Staff Writer

SECTION: B:LOCAL

LENGTH: 310 words


How to help:

To make a tax-deductible donation to the Didinga Foundation, helping to bring
fresh water to southern Sudan, go online to
www.commfound.org/giving/DidingaFdnFund.html.

To make donations to help the "Lost Girls of Sudan" affected by the fire, mail a
check to CSAW, P.O. Box 3217, Boulder, 80307. For more information on other ways
to help, go to www.csawcolorado.org.

To contribute to the fund for Susan Moi set up by Catalyst Education at First
Community Bank, send a check to the Susan Moi Fund, c/o Catalyst High School,
2575 Park Lane, Ste. 100, Lafayette, 80026.

Dozens of Boulder-area residents reached into their pocketbooks Saturday
afternoon to support a group of African refugees working to rebuild their home
country of Sudan.

The "Lost Boys and Girls of Sudan" group is seeking donations and community
support to bring badly needed freshwater sources and basic infra

structure to the southern villages of Sudan, an area they fled in the wake of
war and famine.

"Our life has been a tragedy," Lost Boy Joseph Achunga told the crowd at a
fundraiser held at Centennial Middle School in Boulder. "People suffer because
they cannot afford anything."

Achunga said his people are in desperate need of fresh wa

ter, medical supplies and improvements to roads and other infrastructure in the
war-torn region of northeast Africa.

Like the other Lost Boys and Girls, Achunga fled to America when his country
became too unstable and too dangerous to continue living in. He now lives in
Boulder, along with dozens of other refugees.

He said the dictatorship

government in Sudan "doesn't care about us," and seeking help from Americans has
been the most productive way of sending back aid to those still trapped in the
impoverished nation.

"I have to say thank you for my life in America," Achunga said. "We ask for your
help."

Steve Wilson, of Lafayette,

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Kasia Broussalian Camera Emmanuel Loperito, 8, of Texas, beats on a
drum while Christine Bettel, left, of Boulder, and Josephine Lokirie, 15, of
Utah, put on traditional Sudanese dress Saturday before a presentation and
fundraiser at Centennial Middle School in Boulder. Most of the dancers came to
the United States after meeting at a refugee camp in Kakuma, Kenya. The Saturday
event was part of an effort to raise money to build fresh water wells in
southern Sudan. Kasia Broussalian Camera Rose Lokwang, 22, of Boulder, leads a
Sudanese dance during a presentation by the Didinga Foundation at Centennial
Middle School in Boulder on Saturday, November 29, 2008. Many of the dancers
came to the United States after meeting each other at a refugee camp in Kakuma,
Kenya.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2008 Daily Camera and Boulder Publishing, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              546 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                            October 26, 2008 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Tribe takes step into community;
Acholi Awareness events are seen as a way for refugees to introduce themselves
while maintaining their identity.

BYLINE: EDWARD D. MURPHY Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 444 words

DATELINE: Portland


Alfred Jacob wants to maintain his identity as a member of the Acholi tribe of
Sudan, but he also wants a greater connection with fellow Portlanders.

For him, this weekend's Acholi Awareness events were about ''beginning to
introduce ourselves to this community,'' though many Sudanese and Ugandan
Acholis have, like Jacob, been here nearly a decade since fleeing civil wars in
those countries.

''Even though we have been here so long, we have kept our doors shut for a long
time,'' Jacob said.

Opening those doors was the goal of the awareness weekend, said Daniel G.
Harris, chairman and founder of the Global Community Action League, which helped
organize the events.

The weekend started Friday night with a screening of a documentary, ''Uganda
Rising,'' and included the Gulu Walk and a cultural fair at Portland High School
on Saturday. Harris said the Gulu Walk was an international effort to draw
attention to the continuing crisis in Africa, with similar walks taking place in
cities around the world.

Harris said Sudanese and Ugandan refugees in Portland face not only the
difficulty of adjusting to life in a new country, but also something of a
generational split. He said older refugees would like someday to return to
Africa, but their children have become more assimilated to America and may not
have the same emotional tug to their former homes.

The weekend's events, he said, are designed to make all the refugees feel more
connected. By making them aware of the resources that are available here, Harris
said, the Acholis can feel more comfortable, regardless of whether they want to
return to Africa - when that's possible - or stay in Maine.

''What they want is to make the best of two lives,'' he said.

Harris said his organization is raising money to help Justine Ojara return to
Africa, where he has a wife and seven children.

Harris said United Nations workers helped refugees obtain visas to the United
States, and Ojara lied and said he was single and didn't have children so he
could more easily gain a visa.

Ojara wanted to come to the United States to get a job to support his family.

Now he wants to return for a visit and possibly bring the rest of his family
here, Harris said, and the Global Community Action League is trying to raise
enough money to pay for the trip. Airfare alone, Harris said, is as much as
$1,800.

Jacob said Ojara's story is not unique.

The awareness events, he said, were ''an effort to show people we all come from
the same struggles and, now that we're here, what can we do to better ourselves
and better what we left behind,'' he said.


Staff Writer Edward D. Murphy can be contacted at 791-6465 or at:

emurphy@pressherald.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jack Milton/Staff Photographer
Oscar Mokeme dances at the Acholi/African Cultural Fair in Portland on Saturday.
He wears a Nigerian mask of a spirit that dances to bless the community and
restore hope. At left is Jeanna Best of Portland.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              547 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             August 22, 2008 Friday

Canada reviewing U.S. refugee law change

BYLINE: CAROLINE ALPHONSO, With a report from Reuters

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; DNA testing; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 216 words

DATELINE: TORONTO


Canada is reviewing a move by the United States to halt a program that reunited
African refugees with their relatives after DNA testing showed people were
lying.

A spokeswoman for Citizenship and Immigration Canada said yesterday that it will
likely not have a great impact on the country's immigration system because the
two countries' refugee programs differ. But one immigration lawyer warned that
Canada could see more African refugees looking for a new route into North
America:

"When one door is closed, people seek to open other doors. It seems likely that
it will have an impact on people trying to come into Canada," Toronto's Lorne
Waldman said.

The U.S. State Department said this week that DNA tests on applicants in seven
African countries showed only about 20 per cent actually had a family
relationship. As a result, the family reunification program that has brought
together thousands of refugees with relatives in the U.S. has been shut down for
refugees in Kenya, Ethiopia, Uganda, Ghana, Ivory Coast, Guinea and Gambia.

State Department spokesman Robert Wood said the program has been "suspended,"
and added that the government is "looking into it further to see what we can
do."

In Canada, government-assisted refugees do not need to have family in the
country to enter.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2008 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              548 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       The Chronicle of Higher Education

                             August 1, 2008 Friday

From Our Students, Lessons About Africa and Refugees

BYLINE: KEVIN BROOKS

SECTION: COMMENTARY; Pg. 25 Vol. 54 No. 47

LENGTH: 1108 words


Every year American faculty members bring students to Africa to participate in
study-abroad programs. Last December a student at my institution, North Dakota
State University, turned the tables and brought me to his home village in Sudan,
Duk Payuel, to see how we might help rebuild that war-torn region.

The student, Joseph Akol Makeer, had come to my office in the summer of 2005
because he had been asked by World Magazine to write an article about John
Garang's significance to the so-called lost boys of Sudan and the larger
Sudanese community in America. He was looking for help from anybody in our
English department who happened to be around that day. The article was published
under the name of Akol Maker; Joseph went on to write a book, From Africa to
America: The Journey of a Lost Boy of Sudan, released this year by Tate
Publishing.

On that day in 2005, I learned that Garang, who had just died in a helicopter
crash, had long been the leader of the Sudan People's Liberation Army and had
become vice president of Sudan as part of a peace agreement between the north
and the south. In the early 1990s, Garang had told Joseph and other boys in a
refugee camp that "lack of education is darker than the night." The loss of
Garang, for Joseph and others, was a significant loss of light.

Joseph and I became friends that day. I taught him how to tie a tie, he ended up
taking a class from me, and I tested my growing knowledge of Sudan on him. Two
years after we met, Joseph asked me to be part of a documentary-film team he was
assembling. We call the project African Soul, American Heart, and the film we
are making will be used to raise money for an orphanage in Duk Payuel.

Throughout our project, I have rediscovered the excitement of learning. Getting
to know Joseph has been like enrolling in a program in African history and
refugee studies -- completely new areas for me. It has also been an education
for me in the value of pedagogical approaches, like studying abroad and service
learning, that seek to bring education into the world at large. As academics, we
appreciate abstract learning; we need also to remember the joy of learning new
material, and to discover methods of education that few of us over the age of 40
experienced as undergraduates.

Joseph took me and his other adult pupils to the U.N. refugee camp in Kakuma,
Kenya, where he spent 10 years of his life and completed high school. About 300
students in the camp receive Kenyan high-school diplomas each year, and many of
them are qualified to attend colleges in Africa or English-speaking countries
like the United States, Canada, or Australia. But few can continue their
education because they cannot afford application fees, let alone tuition, unless
they receive financial help.

Institutions like Champlain College, North Dakota State University, and the
University of New Hampshire give significant scholarships to refugees who have
reached the United States. But providing scholarships for refugees still in
Kakuma or other refugee camps would offer a transformative opportunity for the
students there who cannot return to their home countries. The World University
Service of Canada, through its Student Refugee Program, has given scholarships
and financial aid to about 50 new refugees a year since 1978, but neither
American universities nor development agencies have taken an equally systematic
approach.

Two of the people I got to know in Africa stand out in my mind as examples of
people who could benefit from American help. In Kakuma, I met Martin Buhendwa, a
Congolese refugee who is desperate to continue his education. A bright,
ambitious young man, Martin wants to earn a master's degree, as his father did
before war broke out in their country. But the family has now been in Kakuma for
nine years, and they have almost no money for Martin's college tuition. He
enrolled in January at the United States International University in Nairobi,
but he may not be able to continue for a second semester.

In Sudan, I met Sam Deng, a tall, handsome man in his 30s. He and Joseph are
about the same age, but in 1989, Sam went to Uganda and was not given an
opportunity to settle overseas. He earned a high-school diploma in Uganda and
became a teacher there -- college degrees are not required -- but then returned
to Duk Payuel in 2006. As an employee of the county earning $250 a month, he can
support two wives, four children, and six orphans, but he feels he could do more
if he had a college degree from the United States.

My friend Joseph also earns a modest income from part-time jobs and student
loans, with which he supports his wife and their three children, three of his
siblings, and another boy -- the younger brother of a friend who died -- now in
boarding school in Kenya. On our trip to Africa, he tried to help still more
people, like a young boy in Duk Payuel who has to support his sick mother but
wants to attend school. Joseph and the local pastors are trying to find other
aid for the mother so Joseph could send the boy to boarding school.

In Africa I found myself unable to give away things like my watch, shoes, and
glasses, although our group left behind as many clothes and supplies as we
could. My challenge now is to do more. I can give more money, but what I really
need to give is more time -- first to our documentary, which we plan to release
this fall, and then to the orphanage project. The cliché that one person can
make a difference in the world has new meaning for me now.

Higher education as a whole could do more, too. Besides "Save Darfur" rallies,
divestment plans, and letter-writing campaigns to members of Congress -- all
valuable activities -- institutions and individuals could raise awareness
through film series on Sudan or Africa more generally. Students, faculty
members, and administrators could work with the Clinton Global Initiative
University to help improve health around the world, reduce poverty, support
human rights, protect the environment, and work for peace.

I have learned firsthand some of the differences between a primarily oral
culture like Joseph's and a primarily literate culture like ours. Before I
introduced Joseph at a conference, he told me that in Southern Sudan, only
untrustworthy people prepare notes before speaking. A speaker must know the
truth and be able to speak it any time, anywhere, he said. So I left my notes on
my chair, got up, and told my audience the truth: I have learned as much in two
and a half years of friendship with Joseph as I learned in the 10 years I spent
pursuing a Ph.D.

Kevin Brooks is an associate professor of English at North Dakota State
University.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2008 The Chronicle of Higher Education
                              All Rights Reserved


                              549 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                              June 20, 2008 Friday
                                 First Edition

Briefs

BYLINE: Compiled by Mark Fenton-Jones and Damien Lynch

SECTION: PROFESSIONAL SERVICES; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 471 words


PwC to help refugees

PricewaterhouseCoopers is joining the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees to raise money for sustainable facilities and education at refugee
camps in Chad, central Africa. The money will be used to build schools, train
teachers and provide supplies to more than 20,000 children from Darfur aged
between six and 14.

Training tools online

Deloitte has started an online portal that will provide access to financial
tools, online training, compliance and HR solutions. The intellectual property
delivered through Deloitte Digital includes AMLcheck (Deloitte's online
anti-money laundering product; AFTnet (to manage documents for litigation and
large legal actions); Deloitte Leadership Academy (a social network that
delivers e-learning content from partners such as Harvard and Melbourne
universities); and e-learning tools and self-assessment surveys.

Conversion date for US

Kenneth Marshall, a partner in Ernst & Young's assurance and advisory business
services practice, said in the company's Thought Centre webcast that US
companies could convert to International Reporting Standards as soon as 2014.
For that to happen, they would need to start conversion in the next 18 months.

Auditing smaller firms

The Institute of Chartered Accountants will release a manual to help auditors,
particularly those who deal with small to medium enterprises, apply the
Australian auditing standards. The manual, which will be available on its
website later this month, will provide an analysis of the standards, with a case
study to explain how the requirements apply to the audit of a small or medium
business.

Tax system unfair

A report from the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants found the tax
system was unfair and complex. When compared with the United States, Britain,
Canada, Singapore and Hong Kong, Australia's tax system ranks highest in
complexity and second lowest in fairness.

William Buck grows

William Buck has moved from its Wayville premises to renovated offices at 211
Victoria Square, Adelaide, to accommodate growth and gain better access to its
business partners. The practice has grown significantly. It has more than 70
staff and revenue topping $10 million this financial year and funds under advice
sitting at $650 million.

Three more in the link

Online career network LinkMe.com.au has acquired three new clients: Hydro
Tasmania; recruitment organisation Searson Buck; and the Tasmanian Department of
Treasury and Finance.

Recruitment stars

Courtney Smith of ABRS Socialworks was named Accredited Professional of the Year
and Anne Ferguson of Recruitments in Dunedin, New Zealand, was named Student of
the Year at the Recruitment and Consulting Services Association's fifth annual
President's Dinner. Oscar Amante of the RCSA took home the Recognition of
Professional Excellence Award.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2008 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              550 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 20, 2008 Friday

US-based organization accuses Kenyan courts, police of harassing Somali refugees

LENGTH: 373 words


Excerpt from report by privately-owned Somali radio HornAfrik on 20 June

[Presenter] Today being the World Refugee Day, an international organization
concerned with global refugees and immigration matters based in the US has
accused the Kenyan police and courts in Kenya of mistreating Somali refugees in
the Kenyan camps. Abdinasir Muhammad has more details.

[Reporter] The report issued by the US-based organization highlights the plight
of global refugees and those seeking safety and a source of livelihood having
fled from their own countries. The organization expressed concern for the plight
of millions of refugees within the African continent where they are facing a lot
of problems in the countries they fled to.

The refugees are said to be subjected to rape, torture, robbery and even killing
which are all against human rights. The US-based organization particularly spoke
on the plight of Somali refugees in the Kenyan camps of Dadaab near the
Kenya-Somalia border and expressed concern about the living conditions of
thousands of Somali refugees in the camp.

The organization said the Kenyan police and the courts deal inappropriately with
Somali refugees in their country adding that the refugees are accused of crime
they did not commit and are taken to court where they are sentenced contrary to
the law. The organization went on further to say the sentencing of refugees in
Kenyan courts is contrary to both the Kenyan and international law. Corrupt
police officers extort bribes from the refugees which is an embarrassment to
both human rights organizations and the Kenyan police. The organization has
urged the Kenyan government to review the way the Kenyan police and courts deal
with Somali refugees. The organization's report also spoke at length about the
plight of many other African refugees and was released on 20 June marking the
world refugee day.

The organization also spoke the plight of many living in North America who are
unable to obtain travel document. The organization said it will discuss with the
United Nations on ways of improving the lives of millions of refugees across
Africa and particularly those living in Kenya. [Passage omitted].

Source: Radio HornAfrik, Mogadishu, in Somali 0500 gmt 20 Jun 08

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              551 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            June 18, 2008 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Conflicts Displacing More People

BYLINE: Colum Lynch; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 495 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, June 17


The war in Iraq and the conflicts in Colombia, Somalia and the Darfur region of
Sudan have driven an increase in the global population of refugees and the
displaced, according to a report by the U.N.'s chief refugee agency.

The number of refugees climbed for the second consecutive year, rising from 9.9
million to 11.4 million, following a decade-long decline in the global refugee
population. The U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees assisted more than 25
million people last year, marking an "unprecedented" peak in the agency's
operations, according to its 2007 Global Trends report.

Syria, Jordan and Lebanon reported an influx of more than 885,000 Iraqi refugees
in 2007, according to UNHCR spokesman Peter Kessler. In contrast, only 110,000
Iraqis returned to their home country last year.

The latest U.N. figures show that the number of refugees from Africa continued a
decade-long decline, dropping 6 percent last year, as more than 1.5 million
returned to their homes in Congo, southern Sudan, Liberia and Burundi.

"For a number of years the number of refugees worldwide was decreasing due to
the success of massive voluntary operations in Afghanistan, Liberia, Sierra
Leone and Angola," High Commissioner for Refugees AntÃ³nio Guterres said in a
telephone interview from London. "The number of refugees and internally
displaced has started to rise again" during the past two years.

The refugee agency said that 3.1 million people were displaced within their
countries this year, while about 2.1 million returned to their homes. Well over
10 million more displaced people -- including at least 3 million in Sudan -- are
cut off from international assistance or are forced to rely exclusively on their
own governments for help. Meanwhile, 4.6 million Palestinian refugees receive
assistance from the U.N. Relief and Works Agency and are not included in UNHCR's
data.

Pakistan, Iran, Syria and Jordan shoulder the heaviest burden, together playing
host to nearly 5 million refugees, mostly Afghans and Iraqis. Countries in the
Americas hosted fewer refugees than every other major world region; the United
States hosted 280,000 refugees in 2007, while more than 550,000 Colombians
sought refuge in neighboring countries.

Part of the change in the number of refugees and displaced people last year was
driven by a new definition of the two groups. It now includes individuals who
had never registered with the United Nations. The new formula boosts the number
of Afghan refugees by about 1 million, to 3.1 million. At the same time, the
U.N. refugee agency also stopped counting about 820,000 people as refugees --
including 560,000 in the United States -- who have been resettled outside their
homeland.

The report also records a dramatic drop in the number of stateless individuals,
who lack any citizenship, from 5.8 million in 2006 to 3 million last year. The
vast majority of the change was due to Nepal's extension of citizenship to
nearly 2 million ethnic minorities.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


                              552 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 22, 2008 Saturday

Ghana: US envoy reacts to Liberian refugees demand for resettlement

LENGTH: 92 words


Excerpt from report by state-owned Ghana Broadcasting Corporation (GBC) Radio 1
on 21 March

The United States has reacted to demands by groups of Liberian refugees in Ghana
to be resettled in America. In a statement, the US ambassador to Ghana, Pamela
Bridgewater, says large group resettlement of Liberian refugees in the US has
ended. [Passage omitted]

Ambassador Bridgewater urged Liberians to be careful of fraudsters who are
parading as agents for their resettlement in the US. [Passage omitted]

Source: Radio Ghana, Accra, in English 1300 gmt 21 Mar 08

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              553 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                              March 9, 2008 Sunday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

FOR THOSE FLEEING VIOLENCE OF NATIVE COUNTRY, U.S. IS A SWEET;
LAND OF LIBERTY;
WORLD'S REFUGEES BUILDING NEW LIVES IN L.A.;
AMERICA: NEW ARRIVALS LIVE WITH ANCHOR FAMILIES, RECEIVE HELP ADAPTING TO THIS
NATION'S CULTURE.

BYLINE: By Patricia Farrell Aidem Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1392 words


ATWATER VILLAGE - They tell stories of hell on Earth -- of murders, rapes and
beatings -- and then duck into cherished anonymity in their new homeland.

Thousands of the world's refugees, mostly from the war-ravaged Middle East, but
also from Africa, Asia and Latin America, are tucked into the suburbs of Los
Angeles, living with relatives who have already settled in the West.

For Katrin Davoodi and her young family, it was the slaying of their Christian
pastor that drove them from their native Iran, where violence simmers in the
shadows.

They settled first in Tujunga with family members who earlier found refuge in
the United States. Now, they themselves are taking in relatives at their home in
Burbank.

``We left after they killed our pastor. A lot of pastors have been killed,''
said Davoodi, who fled Iran eight years ago with her husband and two sons. ``The
violence, the persecution, it's very underground, but it's real.

``It's very hard in Iran for Christians who are serious about their religion.''

In February, the Davoodis welcomed Katrin's mother and two weeks later her
brother, his wife and their 6-year-old daughter, Meledit -- all refugees and
thus invited guests of the United States.

Like the 55 or so Iranians who arrived on one recent winter morning for an
orientation by an immigration group, the new arrivals will live with ``anchor''
family members until they're on their feet.

``To the anchor families, to them, it's such an amazing blessing. They haven't
seen each other for 10 or 15 years sometimes,'' said Debbie Decker, resource
director for the Interfaith Refugee and Immigration Service.

The organization, housed on the grounds of a tiny, 80-year-old Episcopal Church
in Atwater Village, runs one of five centers in Los Angeles County that handle
the world's refugees.

The classification belongs to those who, fearing for their lives if they stay in
their native lands, seek refugee status from the United Nations and win entry to
19 countries -- the United States, Australia, Canada, Mexico and many European
nations.

Hugging a doll as her parents spoke quietly with other refugees, young Meledit
caught Decker's eye.

``She will be the American,'' Decker said. ``She won't really remember Iran.
This will be her home.''

`Life begins' in America

Last year, 3,241 refugees came to Los Angeles. Most are Iranian Christians and
Jews who fled persecution under President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's Islamic regime
amid fear that Ahmadinejad will allow the violence against his religious enemies
to continue and enforce a plan to force non-Muslims to wear color identity
codes.

``This is really a lot like pre-Nazi Germany. Those who can are getting out,''
Decker said.

One 105-year-old man, one of the last surviving witnesses to the Armenian
Genocide, made his way last year from Iran to Glendale.

The man, who came with his 84-year-old wife, was just 7 or 8 years old when he
crossed a river from Turkey to Iran, holding on to a horse's tail. His entire
family had been killed.

``People in the river were dying around him, but he held on to the horse, and
the horse and rider pulled him across the river,'' Decker said. ``All these
years later, he was persecuted in Iran; his grandchildren brought him here.

- ``He said, `Don't you know life begins when you come to America?'''

President Bush determined last year that 70,000 refugees from approved nations
could enter the United States, although just 40,000 came. The numbers are
smaller, in part, because the process is complex.

Anna Baghdassarian, the Atwater Village center's director, has files pending for
2,000 to 3,000 Africans -- mostly from the Congo -- but the violence there,
along with poor transportation and communication systems, creates challenges.

``When they'll get the clearance, God only knows,'' Baghdassarian said.

Baghdassarian, who was born in Iran, said refugees from that country have
suffered simply for practicing their faith.

``We have a lot of different stories,'' Baghdassarian said. ``A woman lost her
husband, the children's father. He went to buy a Christmas tree and was stopped
by the police. They hit the guy in the head. They killed him. There was no
justice. They're Christians. They can't go to court, to the police. They're so
isolated.''

About 1l0 refugees from Iraq also have settled locally since 1996. Twenty-four
came last year as tens of thousands flee continuing violence and neighboring
countries close their borders.

But most from Iraq are so terrorized they won't tell their stories publicly.
While they're being processed as refugees, officials have tried to interview
Iraqis, but victims are reluctant.

``They offer to black out their faces, distort their voices, but they're
terrified their stories will be identified,'' Decker said. ``The Iraqi stories
break your heart.''

One family who escaped told of Iraqi neighbors who helped U.S. soldiers. In
retaliation, their 3-year-old son was kidnapped and pieces of his dismembered
body stuffed in a bucket that was found days later on his parents' front porch.

Achieving refugee status

To grant refugee status, the United Nations must determine those who apply are
in real danger if they remain in their native lands.

Eventually, they're invited to resettle in Europe, Australia and North America,
primarily in the United States. Because California is laden with immigrants,
those who come here must have family members who are resettled refugees in the
area.

It's a complex process of applications, background checks, reports, travel and
wide-ranging emotions.

``They sell everything,'' Decker said. ``What they can fit in two suitcases is
what they have. They bring pictures, small things, their treasures.''

For the ones who make it, there's a period of adjustment and learning to adapt
to their new homeland.

``It was very hard at the beginning,'' Katrin Davoodi said.

But the family has made Burbank its home. Her husband works, and Davoodi studied
child development at Glendale Community College and works at an elementary
school. Her two sons, now 15 and 10, have fallen in love with basketball.

She and the relatives who took her family in now provide homes for new refugees
who are putting down roots in friendly soil.

``We share our guests with our family so everyone has a place to sleep,'' she
said. ``We understand each other ... the problems.

``It was hard, changing your country, your home, finding a good job. The problem
in Iran wasn't money; the problem was religious persecution.''

Iranian-born Hasmik Kjachik, who fled her native land 20 years ago and lives in
Glendale, welcomed her niece Alina Hajik and her niece's husband, Alfred
Markarian, at the recent orientation.

The new residents' English is poor, but Kjachik said her niece wants to continue
to work as a secretary and go to school; her niece's husband hopes to find work
in elevator maintenance. They are living with his sisters in North Hollywood.

``She wants to work and to study,'' Kjachik said of Hajik.

Getting the essentials

It's Decker's job to make sure these new residents have the essentials when they
get to the United States. On a recent afternoon, she showed off furniture and
lamps donated by a hotel undergoing renovations.

The goal for the misplaced families is to look forward in their new lives, but
sometimes the past slips into their dreams.

``One Iraq family had an emotional trauma issue. They're getting psychological
help to deal with the trauma they witnessed. This is all very new to them -- the
government helping them,'' she said.

Their new lives in Southern California start in U.S. Customs at Los Angeles
International Airport, where they're taken aside, clutching documents in plastic
bags, and are soon reunited with family members.

``The relatives are all there, especially Iran families -- they're huge,''
Decker said. ``This is such a big event. They take them home and have a feast
with neighbors and families to welcome the family member.''

The next day, there is a trip to the Social Security office, and by Day Three,
they must undergo orientations in which they receive appointments for health
checkups and get information on food stamps and other aid.

And soon they learn what freedom means.

``That quality of freedom in everyday life,'' said the Rev. Pam Tyler, executive
director of the interfaith refugee center, ``it never ends when they come to the
United States.''

pat.aidem@dailynews.com

661-257-5251

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Sidebar: For refugees, rules to live by

GRAPHIC: 2 photos
 Photo: (1 -- color) Meledit Davoodi, 6, of Iran waits with her parents for
their orientation on life in the U.S., given by the Interfaith Refugee and
Immigration Service. The group, housed on the grounds of a tiny, 80-year-old
Episcopal Church in Atwater Village, runs one of five centers in Los Angeles
County that handle the world's refugees. Last year, 3,241 people with refugee
status came to this region. (2) Refugees from across the world hold bags from
the Interfaith Refugee and Immigration Service. The Los Angeles group helps
refugees adapt to life in the United States. Hans Gutknecht/Staff Photographer

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                              554 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                        Lincoln Journal Star (Nebraska)

                              March 2, 2008 Sunday
                                  CITY Edition

Event offers chance for Lincolnites, African natives to share information

BYLINE: LISA MUNGER, LINCOLN JOURNAL STAR

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 481 words

DATELINE: LINCOLN, NE


A tall, lithe man dressed in a white Buba hoisted his cane overhead heralding
two women, also dressed in traditional African wear, as they circled
rhythmically.

They were among about 40 attendees at the African Culture Event held Saturday in
Lincoln's Asian Center.

"We wanted to have an exchange of cultural information between African refugees
in Lincoln and the community," said Jason Varga, coordinator for the event's
sponsor, the Fusion Project.

More than an exposition of African food, beverages, music and artwork, the
festival was one reflection of the community's response to increasing numbers of
African refugees, many from Sudan, who have settled in Lincoln recently.

Originally from South Africa, Linda Vermooten moved to the United States years
ago.  She snacked on a samoosa, a deep-fried triangular pocket of bread filled
with vegetables, and listened to the drumbeats she used to enjoy in her native
country.

Vermooten said in the years she's lived in Lincoln she has watched the community
change to a major site for refugees and immigrants from her native Africa.

Varga said Fusion aims to assist refugees in becoming self-sufficient by giving
them information to help in securing jobs, health care and community services.

Many African refugees are from rural areas, where making an appointment to see
the doctor was not customary, he said.

"People came and would wait until the medical provider could see them; if they
weren't seen one day, they would come back the next," he said.

Such a custom creates difficulties for refugees in understanding the American
system, Varga said.

Some refugees use the emergency room improperly - for routine care, he said.

Fusion works to bridge cultural gaps like this one to make refugees and medical
service providers understand the genesis of the problem.

For some refugees, communication barriers are resolved in other ways.

"I communicate my message through music," said Michael Opoku, a Ghanaian who has
lived in Lincoln since 2001.

"I want Americans to know that kids are capable of learning other cultures if
given the chance."

Opoku helped provide the music at the festival, playing traditional drums.

He works as an artist-in-residence throughout the country, including stints at
Doane College, teaching African drumming and talking about African culture to
students.

Opoku concurred with Varga's assessment of the challenges facing refugees
settling in Lincoln.

"Even if you have a college degree, or a medical degree for that matter, from
your own country, it's not recognized here," he said. "Some people leave
Lincoln for cities with more factory jobs."

For Opoku, celebrations such as Saturday's help preserve his culture as he lives
in America.

"Drumming provides links to our roots, to ancestors who fought oppression, fled
it and settled," Opoku said. "It celebrates freedom."

Reach Lisa Munger at lmunger@journalstar.com

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Shadows of visitors to the Asian Community Center stretch across the
floor where Nick Akume (left) and Michael Opoku play the drums as part of the
African Culture Celebration. GWYNETH ROBERTS/Lincoln Journal Star

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 Lincoln Journal Star,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              555 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         Times-News (Twin Falls, Idaho)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           February 7, 2008 Thursday

Burundi refugee finds peace in T.F.

BYLINE: Andrea Gates, The Times-News, Twin Falls, Idaho

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 725 words


Feb. 7--In an old studio apartment furnished by donations, Joseph Nkeshimana
dreams of his family in Africa from a twin bed in Twin Falls.

Sitting on that bed below a window covered by blankets, Nkeshimana, a
20-year-old Burundi refugee held up a picture of his girlfriend, an 18-year-old
smiling woman he said he wants to marry.

But she's across the globe living in a Tanzanian refugee camp along with
thousands of other people displaced by civil war in Burundi, a bloody conflict
that many refugees like Nkeshimana were too young to witness.

The war was ethnically charged -- between the Tutsi minority and Hutu majority
-- people who, Nkeshimana said, have been differentiated only by the shape of
their noses.

War lasted more than a decade, culminating in at least 200,000 deaths, and
forced more than 48,000 refugees into Tanzania, which hosts more refugees than
any other country in Africa, according to the Central Intelligence Agency.

With only a small rolling, carry-on bag, Nkeshimana boarded an airplane in July
and left loved-ones in the camps, which he likened to prisons.

"There's no freedom, you cannot go outside the camp. If you go outside the camp
and police watch you, they take you and beat you and they put you in prison,"
Nkeshimana said. "There's no peace."

Nkeshimana now resides in a modest apartment in an old Eden Street building.
Beyond the peeling paint, cracked tiles and mismatched curtains, he is living
for the first time with snow outside and plumbing inside, in one of the world's
richest countries.

"Yes, I like it here," he said.

But he's often tired from working long 12-hour shifts as a machine operator at
Solo Cup that start at 6 p.m. and end at about 6 a.m. Ã¢â[#x201a]¬" for a salary
that's usually around $275 per week.

It pays the bills, Nkeshimana said, and lets him buy 30 minute phone cards for
$5 a piece so he can call his family and girlfriend in Africa. Phone contact is
important but having family in America would be better. Nkeshimana's only family
in town right now is an uncle.

Keeping families of refugees together is often a challenge because of slow
processing times and difficulties communicating with authorities on the
Tanzanian camps, said Ron Black, administrator of the College of Southern Idaho
Refugee Center.

"We sent back a list of all the family members," Black said. "It's disorganized
over there. We're not getting any feedback. We can't tell people here what the
status of their family is there."

Further complicating reunions are the rules that only people living in camps can
apply for refugee status, Black said. That chisels away at the possibility of
Nkeshimana's mom and sisters joining him anytime soon.

Nkeshimana said he was pulled from a Tanzanian village when he was 10 and put
onto a refugee camp with his brother and father. His mom and sisters, however,
were forced to stay in the village and farm.

Visits are also unlikely. Refugees can apply for a travel document after they've
been here for six months, but processing can take at least a year.

"If they leave the country without travel documents, they can't get back in,"
Black said.

It's also a long path to citizenship for refugees in America. After five years
they can apply for permanent citizenship, and then they can sponsor immediate
family members to come into the country, Black said.

The CSI Refugee Center is federally funded and helps establish refugees here by
teaching English to adults, providing donated clothes and furniture, and making
housing and job arrangements within six months.

About 26 refugees came to Twin Falls between October and January, and 13 more
are scheduled to come in the next two weeks from Africa and Iran, said Black.

Andrea Gates can be reached at 735-3380 or Andrea.Gates@lee.net

Want to help?

The College of Southern Idaho Refugee Center accepts donated clothing and
household items.

Volunteers are also needed to teach English. For information: Shannon Palmer
Stowe, 736-2166.

To see more of The Times-News, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.magicvalley.com Copyright (c) 2008, The Times-News, Twin Falls, Idaho
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080207-TW-Burundi-refugee-finds-peace-in-T-F-0207

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TW


                           Copyright 2008 Times-News


                              556 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                      Bowling Green Daily News (Kentucky)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           January 26, 2008 Saturday

Nigerian couple brings African flavor to Bowling Green: Ethnic groceries, other
items being offered as city's refugee population continues to grow

BYLINE: Ameerah Cetawayo, The Daily News, Bowling Green, Ky.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 597 words


Jan. 26--As the war in Kenya continues in Augustine Amonge's homeland of Kisumu,
the 26-year-old Bowling Green resident frequents the Kacee African Food Market
at 1777 Holly St. for phone cards.

"I call home every night because of the war in Kenya now," Amonge said.

Opened by Nigerian couple Abiola and Emmanuel Iyiegbuniwe in October, the store
serves the growing population of residents with subsaharan African ties, mostly
from countries in west and central African, like Liberia and Burundi.

The latest American Community Survey of the U.S. Census Bureau showed Warren
County's population with subsaharan African ancestry almost doubled in 2006 with
407 residents -- an increase from the 225 residents in 2005.

When Emmanuel Iyiegbuniwe and his wife came to Bowling Green in August 2003 from
the midwest to take a professorship at Western Kentucky University's department
of public health, they already had plans to open his store -- they grew tired of
having to drive to Nashville and other larger cities to find the foods they were
familiar with.

"We felt the need to do something," Iyiegbuniwe said.

The store carries a wide variety of goods -- including dried fish, oloyin beans,
goat meat, palm oil, cassava leaves, fresh yams, fufu flour, sardines, and other
items -- used to make spicy stews and other dishes traditionally found in
African, West Indian and Caribbean cultures. The store also offers phone cards
for calling African countries, as well as head wraps, purses and movies made in
Africa.

Everyday customers stop in to see if Kacee is a restaurant -- it's not, but the
Iyiegbuniwes say that's in the plans, as is the addition of African crafts to
the mix.

"So people don't have to wait for the International Festival," Abiola
Iyiegbuniwe said.

James Robinson, director of the Bowling Green International Center, said he
plans to utilizes the store as a tool to help refugees from Burundi and Liberia
get acclimated to life in Bowling Green.

According to Robinson, Bowling Green has had 88 Liberians come through the
International Center's doors in the past decade; last year, the center helped 21
Burundis.

Many of the refugees who come to Bowling Green are overwhelmed with life in the
United States, Robinson said -- some have been in refugee camps since the 1970s.

Abraham Williams, director of the Housing Authority of Bowling Green, said the
number of Liberians is increasing in Bowling Green, but not necessarily
blossoming -- having been in refugee camps for most of their lives, they haven't
had the opportunity to seek an education. But the Housing Authority has several
programs in place, alongside the Bowling Green Human Rights Commission -- to
help those who are behind in their educations get back on track.

"It's no different from being in America -- you have those who are educated and
those who aren't educated," Williams said, adding that some can't even read.

The Housing Authority has had about 18 families that have moved in the city's
public housing -- a number that teeters around 75 people, because of the
families average eight or nine people, Williams said, and "the number continues
to increase," Williams said.

To see more of the Bowling Green Daily News, or to subscribe to the newspaper,
go to http://www.bgdailynews.com. Copyright (c) 2008, The Daily News, Bowling
Green, Ky. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints,
email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send
a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee
Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080126-BW-Nigerian-couple-brings-African-flavor-to-Bowling-Green-0126

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BW


                    Copyright 2008 Bowling Green Daily News


                              557 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                           January 24, 2008 Thursday

'Lost Boys' aid friends from Sudan

LENGTH: 554 words


After 13 years in Salt Lake City, Simon Kuay is familiar with the homesick faces
of Sudanese refugees who fled their homeland with nothing but memories. He's a
"Lost Boy" himself, separated from his family at age 11 when his village was
bombed by Sudan's Islamic government.

With several thousand Sudanese immigrants now building new lives in Utah, it
occurred to Simon last year that his friends needed a gathering place --
somewhere to catch up on news from their homeland and feel as though they
belonged to a family again.

So in August, the 33-year-old Columbia College business student opened K & K
African Market on Redwood Road with his cousin, Both Kuang, hoping to give Lost
Boys and others a small taste of what they left behind.

At Simon's market and deli, refugees can stock up on spices and lentils, wire
money home to relatives and hear the latest headlines from Sudan or Ethiopia via
satellite while dining on Sudanese delicacies such as rice with lamb sauce.

"Most of us don't care for Big Macs," Simon says with a smile, "but I have
learned to appreciate Mexican food. Mostly, we like to cook the dishes we grew
up with. It's a way to feel you are not so far away from Sudan."

On a recent Saturday, I joined Simon for a Free Lunch chat at the market while
he and his older brother, James, prepared for the lunch rush. "James was like a
father to me in the refugee camps," says Simon, recalling how his brother, then
16, led him across the desert to Ethiopia in 1987 when they became separated
from their parents.

"We both had to grow up very quickly, but we were not alone," he says. "There
were boys even younger than me without family. We took care of each other."

Simon was among the lucky boys who later learned his parents and four younger
siblings had survived the bombings and fled to another part of Ethiopia. But he
and James knew there was no future for them in Africa. With no money or
education, their options were few. So they traveled to another refugee camp in
Kenya and awaited permission to immigrate to the United States.

It took seven years, but Simon says the wait was worth it. Their Salt Lake City
sponsors put them up in a small apartment and helped them to find jobs. Simon
started out as a housekeeper at the Little America Hotel, then moved on to
become a carpenter, a book binder, a factory worker and a deliveryman.

Even now, he works a second job as a cab driver between taking college business
classes and running the market to earn extra money for his family in Africa.

"My mother does not want to move, so I dream of returning (to Africa) one day to
build her a secure place to live," says Simon. "In our culture, though, money
isn't as important as it is in America. Your farm, your cattle -- that's what is
important. That's why it is easy to send money home. We don't need so much for
ourselves."

As the clock strikes noon, Simon's friends start arriving for another afternoon
of leisurely dining and catching up. "I knew many of these people in the camps
-- we have been friends for 20 years," he says. "We are not related, but it
doesn't matter. We're all family now." Have a story? Let's do lunch. E-mail your
name, phone number and what you'd like to talk about to freelunch@desnews.com
You can also write me at the Deseret Morning News, P.O. Box 1257, Salt Lake
City, UT 84110.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                              558 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                  The Dominion Post (Wellington, New Zealand)

                          November 28, 2007 Wednesday

NZ urged to lift quota as refugee suffering grows;
TAKING REFUGE

BYLINE: LING Jenny

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 477 words


DEVELOPED countries, including New Zealand, should do more to help refugees who
are suffering atrocities such as child rape, a torture expert says.

Paris Aristotle, director of the Victorian Foundation for Survivors of Torture,
has called for New Zealand to increase its annual refugee quota, saying people
fleeing war-torn and politically unstable countries are living in camps for
longer than necessary.

There was also evidence that more children were being tortured or witnessing
torture.

"The proportion of refugees living in camps for five years or more has risen
dramatically," he said.

"Of the 20 million people who are of concern to UNHCR (United Nations High
Commission for Refugees), the number of people resettled was about 75,000. We
can barely see a dent."

Mr Aristotle, an Australian, has worked with refugees for 25 years and holds
positions on the Australian Government's Refugee Resettlement Advisory Council
and the Immigration Detention Advisory Group.

He was in New Zealand to talk to 60 RMS Refugee Resettlement staff during the
groups' annual conference near Christchurch.

He said the average time refugees spent in camps had increased from nine years
in 1993 to 17 years in 2003.

They were living with limited food, education and healthcare and poor sewage
facilities. Women and girls were often sexually assaulted.

The increase was a result of the effects of war on citizens, such as in Iraq,
and conflict and unstable governments in parts of Africa.

"Children are growing up in camps and that increases implications for their
education levels and learning opportunities," he said. "When they settle in New
Zealand or Australia they have a lot of ground to make up."

New Zealand is one of 16 countries with an annual refugee quota and accepts up
to 750 refugees each year.

RMS national manager Peter Cotton said more resources for resettlement
programmes were needed before quotas were increased. There were only two small
units, in Auckland and Wellington, capable of dealing with victims of torture
and trauma.

"It's better to concentrate on adequate resourcing so people are fully supported
to becoming contributing members of society."

An Immigration Service spokesman said that, in proportion to its population, New
Zealand had one of the highest rates of refugee acceptance. Quota changes would
need to be considered carefully.

-------------------

TAKING REFUGE

-------------------

* More than 8.5 million people worldwide were refugees at the beginning of 2006.

* Sixteen countries have refugee quotas, including the United States, Canada,
Australia and some European countries.

* They vary from 50,000 refugees (United States) to 29 (Mexico).

* New Zealand accepts 750 refugees every year, from Myanmar, Afghanistan, Sudan,
Eritrea, Iraq and Cambodia.

* They are supported by RMS Refugee Resettlement to help them with advice,
housing and orientation.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


                              559 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           The Australian (Australia)

                            October 9, 2007 Tuesday
                           All-round Country Edition

Scandalous to invoke the race issue

BYLINE: Klaus Neumann

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 971  words


Klaus Neumann on the disturbing parallels and differences between the McMahon
and Howard Coalition government approaches to African refugees before the 1972
and 2007 elections


THE Labor Party had been in Opposition for many years. The government was about
to call an election. Four months out from the election, a refugee crisis
developed in Africa. The British government asked Australia to accommodate some
of the refugees. Unlike its counterpart in Ottawa, the government in Canberra
decided the only refugees it was going to admit were those who would meet its
normal immigration criteria.

In parliament, the immigration minister said Australia would accept only ''those
people who can integrate successfully into the Australian community. We believe
that this is in the interests not only of the Australian community but also of
the migrants coming to Australia for settlement.''

The refugees in question? Sudanese? Wrong. They were fleeing Uganda -- 35 years
ago, in fact -- and many were Ugandan citizens.

They or their forebears had originally come to Uganda from the Indian
subcontinent. They were fleeing their country as a result of the racist policies
of its president, Idi Amin. The UN high commissioner for refugees and the
British government had difficulties in identifying resettlement options because
of the racialist immigration policies of countries such as Australia.

It is worth recalling this episode for several reasons, all to do with
intriguing differences between the dying days of the McMahon Coalition
government in 1972 and what arguably are the dying days of the Howard Coalition
Government in 2007. Thirty-five years ago, Australia still had a White Australia
Policy, albeit a softened one than the pre-Harold Holt version. It did not have
a refugee determination process. It did not have a humanitarian program. Since
then, Australia has come a long way. For many years now, the Immigration
Department has distinguished between refugees from Africa, Asia, Europe or South
America on the basis of their protection needs rather than on account of their
race.

There are good reasons Australia may wish to accept more refugees from Iraq
(because of our responsibilities as a key member of the US-led coalition of the
willing) and from Burma (because of our responsibilities as a regional power).
To cut the refugee intake from Africa on the grounds that African refugees don't
integrate well, however, takes us back to a policy according to which refugees
are selected on account of our, rather than their, needs.

Thirty-five years ago, neither the government nor the Opposition was prepared to
make the acceptance of refugees from Uganda an election issue. Although the
government did not want Australia to play a prominent role in the effort to
relieve the plight of Uganda's Asians, it carefully avoided arguing its point by
reference to race.

Former Labor leader Arthur Calwell, who had earlier invoked the spectre of a
''chocolate-coloured Australia'' if the ostensible flood of immigrants from
countries such as Burma and Mauritius were to continue, tried to exploit the
issue but was quickly isolated, both within the Australian Labor Party and in
the court of public opinion.

To appeal to Australians' fear of an influx of non-European refugees was
irresponsible then. It is irresponsible now. That such recklessness is not
coming from an Opposition backbencher on the eve of his retirement (as it did 35
years ago) but from a senior minister is scandalous.

Thirty-five years ago, federal Labor was as reluctant to criticise the
government's approach to refugees from Africa as it is now.

But in 1972, prominent members of the Liberal Party (such as Victorian premier
Rupert Hamer) did not mince their words when commenting on the government's
reluctance to accept some of those fleeing Amin's Uganda. We have become
accustomed to the silence of the federal Opposition when it smells a wedge
issue. But where are the voices of those aspiring to lead the Liberal Party in
the post-Howard era? Aren't Peter Costello, Malcolm Turnbull, Julie Bishop and
others capable of telling the Immigration Minister to shut up?

''Australia has the right to ensure that those who come here are integrating
into a socially cohesive community,'' Kevin Andrews said last week.

It is troubling that this statement has echoes of John Howard's ''We have the
right to decide who comes to this country, and the circumstances in which they
come'', the defining slogan of the 2001 Tampa election.

It is even more troubling that Andrews's ''socially cohesive community'' smacks
of the ''homogenous society'' that Jim Forbes, minister for immigration in the
McMahon government, wanted to maintain when he tried to keep out refugees from
Uganda in 1972.

''The Government has been aware that many refugees from parts of Africa have had
difficulties settling in Australia,'' Andrews said. ''Most have come from war
and conflict including torture. Many have lived in refugee camps for up to and
over a decade.''

Australia had accepted to resettle these people precisely because of their
horrific experiences and because many had been stuck in refugee camps for 10
years or more.

Australia's capacity to resettle refugees is far greater now than it was 35
years ago. And if the accommodation of people ''from a vastly different
culture'', to again use Andrews's words, who went through hell on earth before
being accepted for resettlement, is particularly complex and costly and
challenging?

Then Australia, more so than most other countries, has the resources to meet the
challenge.

Klaus Neumann is a research professor of the Institute for Social Research at
Swinburne University in Melbourne. He will deliver his inaugural lecture on the
topic of Refugees, Compassion and Australian Values tomorrow at 6pm at the State
Library of Victoria.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              560 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                     Sunday News (Lancaster, Pennsylvania)

                            September 2, 2007 Sunday

Final refuge Where and when;
'Rain in a Dry Land' documentary follows Somali refugees as they begin new lives
in United States

BYLINE: Michael Long

SECTION: H; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 929  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


After a year of painstaking edits, documentary filmmaker Anne Makepeace was left
with just 87 minutes of film.

Years of pouring her time, emotions and capital into "Rain in a Dry Land," a
thoughtful account of two Somali refugee families who relocate to the United
States, had crystallized into less than an hour and a half of celluloid.

The film, which earlier this summer opened the 20th anniversary season of the
PBS "P.O.V." documentary series, has a back story as compelling as the finished
product.

In March 2003, Makepeace read an article in the New York Times about a
cultural-orientation class for Somali Bantu refugees. The group of ethnic
Africans consisted of illiterate subsistence farmers who had been driven from
their fertile homeland and were living in a refugee camp in Kakuma, Kenya. They
were Moslems, and the thought of thousands of these refugees relocating to a
post-Sept. 11 America captivated Makepeace.

"It's the stories that just take you by storm and sweep you away that you feel
you have to do. You sweat blood for them," Makepeace said in a telephone
interview from her home in Lakeville, Conn. "I'm very happy with the way this
film turned out and with all the serendipitous things that made it work."

"Serendipity" is a kind term to describe the problems and occasionally harrowing
events that shaped this film.

First, Makepeace spent eight months "diplomatically harassing" the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the International Organization of
Migration, which organized the orientation classes and arranged for the refugees
to travel to America. Winning the support of these organizations was the key to
moving forward, she said.

Once Makepeace was inside the country, the language proved a formidable task.
She unwittingly hired a translator who had made bitter enemies among the people
she wanted to film (think death threats) before she employed the head of a
literacy program who was himself a Somali Bantu and a trusted member of the
community.

When shooting scenes in the literacy classroom, the translator would sit in a
separate room with headphones and a microphone, translating for the
cinematographers as the teacher introduced his charges to exotic appliances,
such as a refrigerator and stove, and informed them of cultural differences. For
instance, in America, he said, men are not permitted to force women to have sex.

Makepeace and her crew also had to contend with 6 p.m. curfews at the U.N.
compound where they were staying (it's not safe to venture out after dark) and a
general lack of simple technology on location (lights, for instance).

During the year and a half of shooting the refugees in their American homes, she
often found herself without a translator, "shooting from the gut."

"We would just keep shooting and try to sense what was dramatic, and we didn't
find out what was going on until months later," she recalled. "I was fortunate,
through the network of people I got to know who work in refugee resettlement, to
find a guy in Boston - he's Somali, not Bantu, but he had grown up near the
Bantu, so he knew the dialect really well - and he was a brilliant man, fluent
in English."

At first, she just sent her Boston translator footage that had been shot
stateside, but after hearing the nuances he uncovered in the Bantu dialect, she
had him retranslate the footage shot in Africa. Suddenly, observations such as
"When I get to America, I will take my children to school" became "When my eyes
and ears arrive at a place where the breeze is blowing, I will take my children
to school."

"Talk about lost in translation," Makepeace said.

Documentary films have long been the chosen format for rooting out basic
humanity, and by poring over footage and parsing translations, filmmakers
uncover the most luminous elements of their stories.

"You're bringing into the foreground the most moving, most compelling moments
that move the story forward," Makepeace said. "You have to have the material
there in the first place, but it is an artful arrangement of that material that
makes or breaks the film."

When she considers what she wants people to take away from "Rain in a Dry Land,"
Makepeace thinks about a shot at the end of the film: The camera pulls in tight
on Arbai, a female refugee. Close up, it's hard to tell what she's doing. Then
the camera pulls back to reveal the vast warehouse in which Arbai is operating a
floor-scrubbing machine. She is an American janitor.

Makepeace, who won an Emmy for her cinematic portrait of famed war photographer
Robert Capa, hopes "Rain in a Dry Land" will change people's attitudes toward
immigrants and refugees and encourage tolerance in communities and in the halls
of government.

"[I hope] when we see immigrants, whether African or Hispanic or whatever, doing
these kinds of jobs that have generally been invisible to most of us, that they
will become visible in our midst," she said. "And that when people see them,
they'll realize that there's a whole incredible story behind them, of suffering,
loss, resilience, courage and hope and the success of bringing their families to
safety."

Ephrata Public Library, 550 S. Reading Road, will show "Rain in a Dry Land" at 7
p.m. Monday, Sept. 10, as part of the Reality @ Your Library documentary film
series. For more information, call 738-9291 or visit www.
ephratapubliclibrary.org.

"Rain in a Dry Land," 7 p.m. Monday, Sept. 10, at Ephrata Public Library, 550 S.
Reading Road, Ephrata, part of the documentary film series Reality @ Your
Library. For more information, call 738-9291 or visit ephratapubliclibrary.org.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Lancaster Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              561 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                             July 26, 2007 Thursday

Refugee housing crisis spurs action

BYLINE: Lucinda Dillon Kinkead Deseret Morning News

LENGTH: 803 words


A formidable group of community and business leaders put their heads together
Wednesday in an attempt to solve a looming housing crisis slated to displace
hundreds of low-income Salt Lake residents -- mostly refugees resettled here
from war-torn regions such as Somalia, Sudan and eastern Europe -- by the end of
the summer.

Because of escalating rents and lost federal aid, tenants from up to 175 units
of an apartment complex known to most as the Hartland, at 1700 South and Redwood
Road, face moving elsewhere -- or to the streets -- and away from services on
which they rely. Due to expiring leases and other problems, at least six dozen
families -- many of them Bantu -- have already moved, and many more at the
complex are facing imminent deadlines.

Wednesday's session at the United Way offices was called to mull alternatives.

A possible answer? Purchasing the complex from its current owners.

"This crisis has touched all walks of life," said Rosemarie Hunter, director of
the University Neighborhood Partnership, which has worked closely with residents
of the apartment complex. "The fact that so many people came to the table shows
the scope of this issue," Hunter said.

Bankers, educators, social workers, community leaders, refugee resettlement
experts, University of Utah officials and representatives from the Catholic
Diocese and LDS Church all gathered to see what could be done.

"Most everyone in the rooms saw the value in keeping that (property)
affordable," said Robert Rendon, senior vice president and director of community
reinvestment for Zions Bank.

About 50 concerned people who attended the meeting agreed someone must try to
buy back the property, now renamed the Seasons at Pebble Creek, from a San
Francisco-based group that recently bought it, raised rents $50 to $200 and is
now renewing leases.

The meeting signaled formal efforts to do so, said Bill Crim, director of
strategic initiatives and public policy for United Way, which organized the
meeting. "This needs urgent attention."

For years, the collection of 300 apartments has been much more than a living
space for its residents.

The complex is home to more than 1,000 adults and children from all over the
world, including Africa, South America, central and eastern Europe and Mexico,
as well as the United States.

More than 75 percent of the residents are non-native English speakers.

Hartland had been a resettlement site for the two primary refugee agencies in
Salt Lake City. As a result, some of the units were subsidized for low-income
residents.

In March, new owners increased the monthly rent. They also said that Section 8
vouchers, which subsidize rent, would no longer be accepted. After some lobbying
by concerned groups, the owners and housing authorities were able to reach an
agreement that vouchers from current residents would be accepted. But about 40
percent of residents there also have been supported by a federal rental
assistance program that ends in August.

There is no replacement program, so there are no more funds to subsidize low
rent for tenants.

Complicating the low-income issue is that many of the refugee residents have a
significant learning curve when it comes to Western life. Many have lived in
refugee camps for decades, and life skills that Americans take for granted --
technology, language, bill paying and other complications of contemporary living
-- can take years for some refugees to learn.

Educators at area schools, social workers and a bevy of community groups came
together early to help refugee children and adults with the difficult
transitions.

Teams of faculty and students from the U. department of family and consumer
studies began working early on with community partners and Hartland residents.
They built a financial fitness program through the University Neighborhood
Partnership-Hartland Center, an on-site campus where a variety of classes are
offered in subjects like homebuyer education, health access, English as a second
Language and early childhood programs.

"It's quite a unique situation there," Rendon said. "Those programs really help
the families get oriented into our societies. If all those families are
dispersed, it's going to be very difficult to rebuild that."

The new owners weren't present at Wednesday's meeting, but Zions Bank officials
are in talks with them about buying the property, Rendon said.

Rendon couldn't say what the property is worth, but Salt Lake County property
records show it valued at $10 million in 2005, $11.3 million in 2006 and
proposed at $16.2 million value for 2007.

Also raised in discussion Wednesday is the sobering fact: This is not an
isolated problem. "There are other affordable housing complexes up for sale,"
Crim said. And the community must find a proactive way to deal with these
concerns, he said. E-mail: lucy@desnews.com

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                              562 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                             July 24, 2007 Tuesday
                                  ALL EDITION

RICHARDSON IS YOUTUBE STAR

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 625 words


Monday night's CNN/YouTube "debate" among the candidates for the Democratic
presidential nomination was billed as a dramatic departure from politics as
usual. Unfortunately, aside from fact that one aspiring questioner dressed like
a Viking, the debate was only a little better than the one where CNN's Wolf
Blitzer was hogging the microphone.

But the YouTubers were often poignant and powerful, as when Mary and Jen from
Brooklyn asked the candidates: "If you were elected president of the United
States, would you allow us to be married to each other?"

While most of the other contenders struggled to say "no" politely, Dennis
Kucinich knocked that one out of the park by responding: "Mary and Jen, the
answer to your question is yes."

But such sublime moments were rare.

There was one meaningful dust-up, however, at least in terms of identifying the
candidate who is most prepared to act on the global stage. It came when New
Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson, a former congressman, Cabinet secretary and U.S.
ambassador to the United Nations, clashed with Senate Foreign Relations
Committee Chairman Joe Biden on how to respond to the genocide that has taken
place in and around the Sudanese region of Darfur.

"I'm Gabriel. And I'm Connie, from a refugee camp near Darfur," began a YouTube
video that inserted concern about the child refugees of Africa into the debate.
"Before you answer this question, imagine yourself the parent of one of these
children. What action do you commit to that will get these children back home to
a safe Darfur and not letting it be yet another empty promise?"

CNN's Anderson Cooper directed the question to Richardson: "What are you going
to do? Would you commit American troops?"

"This is what I would do, responded Richardson. "It's diplomacy. It's getting
U.N. peacekeeping troops and not African Union troops. It's getting China to
pressure Sudan. It's getting the European Union to be part of economic sanctions
in Sudan. It's called leadership.

"A no-fly zone, I believe, would be an option. But we have to be concerned about
humanitarian workers being hurt by planes, being shot.

"The answer here is caring about Africa. The answer here is not just thinking of
our strategic interests as a country, as oil and Europe and the Middle East. It
should be Africa, Asia and Latin America, doing something about poverty, about
AIDS, about refugees, about those that have been left behind. That's how we
restore American leadership in this country."

Richardson's response drew sustained applause.

Cooper pressed for clarity: "You say U.N. troops. Does that mean American
troops?"

"United Nations peacekeeping troops, and that would primarily be Muslim troops.
We need a permanent U.N. peacekeeping force, stationed somewhere," said the most
experienced diplomat in the race. "If we get U.N. peacekeeping troops authorized
for Darfur, there are some already there, it'll take six months for them to get
there. Genocide is continuing there; 200,000 have died; close to 2 million
refugees in that region. America needs to respond with diplomacy, with
diplomatic leadership."

Notice that Richardson steadfastly avoided committing to sending U.S. troops to
the region - the potentially disastrous proposal by Biden. Why send troops?
"Because we can," Biden claimed Monday night.

The difference between Richardson and Biden was striking, and instructive - as
was the fact that Hillary Clinton, in her brief response, sided with Richardson.

Even if the candidates did not, for the most part, do a good job of delineating
the distinctions between them, those distinctions are real. And they need to be
highlighted in a more systematic and effective manner than CNN has done with
either Wolf Blitzer or the bells and whistles of the YouTube debate.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bill Richardson

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              563 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           The Taos News (New Mexico)

                             July 19, 2007 Thursday

IN THE GALLERIES

BYLINE: COURTESY PHOTOS

SECTION: TEMPO; Pg. TE-10

LENGTH: 432 words


The Grimshaw Fine Art Gallery

* 132 Kit Carson Road

* (800) 638-5169

The gallery will host an exclusive event featuring internationally acclaimed
Thai-American painter Pamela Sukhum July 28 from 4-7 p.m. Guests will have the
rare opportunity to watch Sukham paint, ask questions about her work, and
purchase her pieces at special show pricing. They will also have a chance to
view images created by Darfur's child refugees through Sukhum's "Beautiful
Project."

Sukhum's paintings are characterized by rich colors and textures, and warm,
radiant energy. Her use of both broad, sweeping lines and delicate, intricate
details give her work a depth and dimension truly unique to the art world.
Fueled by spiritual and human connections forged during her journeys around the
globe, from the monasteries of Tibet to the refugee camps of Eastern Chad,
Sukhum's mission is to bring beauty and light to the world through her
paintings.

Formerly a researcher in cardiovascular health and electrophysiology, Sukhum
left the biomedical field in 2003 to pursue her true passion. An avid traveler,
she has studied and deepened her creative spirit in Thailand, Nepal, Tibet,
South America, and Africa. Last fall, she brought her "Beautiful Project" to the
Gaga refugee camp, along the border of Chad and Sudan, where she worked with
child refugees of the genocide in Darfur. Most recently, Sukhum was awarded the
prestigious Director's Choice Award at ArtExpo New York, the preeminent fine art
exhibition in North America.

Enger-Córdova Fine Art Gallery

* 131 Paseo del Pueblo Norte

* 505-758-9120

This being fiesta time, it's a worthwhile trip to stop by the entrancing
Enger-Córdova Fine Art Gallery. The little red door gallery in the Caffe Renato
courtyard is brimming with the colorful spirit of New Mexican traditional and
contemporary art created by the artist/owners, Dan Enger and Amy Córdova.

From Enger's raucous, smiling "bandido" skeletons to Córdova's images of life
connected to the sacred beauty of the natural world, their small jewel of a
gallery is not to be missed. The names of some of their pieces are as
picturesque as the paintings themselves. Check out "Loving Mr. Peanut" and
"Sweet Hitchhiker."

During Fiestas, the gallery will feature Córdova's latest collaborative
children's book, "The First Tortilla," written by acclaimed living treasure of
New Mexico, author Rudolfo Anaya, and published by University of New Mexico
Press. The bilingual book, illustrated by Córdova and translated by Enrique La
Madrid, is a candy-colored delight, a tale of traditional values, magic and hope
for all ages.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 1. "Lotus," oil on canvas by Pamela Sukhum. Exhibit opens July 28 at
Grimshaw Fine Art Gallery.
2. "The Chosen One" by Amy Córdova, an illustration from the book "The First
Tortilla" by Rudolfo Anaya.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2007 The Taos News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              564 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 19, 2007 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Stories of Refugees, Wrapped in Stereotypes

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW 'RAIN IN
A DRY LAND'; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 431 words


In its more unfortunate passages, ''Rain in a Dry Land,'' Anne Makepeace's film
about two Somali refugee families being relocated to the United States,
reinforces unpleasant stereotypes that some people still harbor about Africa:
that everybody over there is so illiterate and backward that airplanes and
staircases and telephones baffle them.

Watch closely, though, and you may end up thinking that the truly naive and
unsophisticated people in the story are the ones who thought that they were
doing African farmers a favor by depositing them in urban America without a
strong, open-ended support system.

The film, tonight on PBS's ''P.O.V.'' series, begins with a brief synopsis of
the endless war that sent many Bantu families fleeing from Somalia to refugee
camps in Kenya. The United States, the film says, is now taking in 13,000 of the
refugees. Ms. Makepeace follows a husband and wife, Aden and Madina, and their
seven children, who go to Springfield, Mass., and a single mother named Arbai
and her four children, who go to Atlanta.

The film too often settles for condescending scenes that seem intent on
reinforcing Western superiority at the expense of the immigrants: Aden can't
open a childproof cap; Madina doesn't trust Banquet Crispy Chicken. (''How do
you know it's chicken?'' she says. ''Why is it so cold?'')

It's a common viewpoint in collision-of-cultures films, and an irritating one:
sure, American money baffles newcomers, but do we ever get a comparative lesson
in the financial system they left behind? No; easier, and more comforting, to
just let us assume that they're dimwits.

But Ms. Makepeace's film is fascinating when it takes an unblinking look at more
difficult issues: Madina's apparent depression; Aden's growing frustration at
not being able to master English or find a job; some of the children's troubles
in school, where they are plunked without translators.

The film ends ambiguously, and an update on pbs.org that fills in the story
since filming was completed is equally inconclusive. The uncomfortable feeling
remains that this type of resettlement is simultaneously an act of generosity
and a sort of benevolent torment.

P.O.V.

Rain in a Dry Land

On most PBS stations tonight (check local listings).

Produced, directed and written by Anne Makepeace. Mary Lampson, editor; Joan
Churchill, Barney Broomfield, cinematography; music by Joel Goodman. Produced by
Anne Makepeace Productions Inc. and the Independent Television Service (ITVS),
in association with American Documentary  P.O.V. and Center for Independent
Documentary.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Madina Ali Yunye is a transplanted Somali in ''Rain in a Dry
Land.'' (Photograph by Matt Schwab/PBS)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              565 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                              June 5, 2007 Tuesday

Court rejects abortion law

SECTION: WIRE; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 368 words


EIN EL-HILWEH CAMP, Lebanon - Islamic militants clashed with Lebanese troops at
the country's biggest Palestinian refugee camp Monday, threatening to open a
southern battle front that could complicate the army's effort to defeat
al-Qaida-inspired extremists in the north.

Two government soldiers and a militant were reported killed in fighting at the
Ein el-Hilweh camp in the southern city of Sidon, which began when the Jund
al-Sham group attacked army outposts late Sunday.

The assault was seen as an attempt by Jund al-Sham to ease military pressure on
an allied Islamic group, Fatah Islam, whose guerrillas have been battered by
army attacks since May 20 in the Nahr el-Bared refugee camp near Tripoli in
northern Lebanon.

WASHINGTON (AP) - Robert Zoellick, President Bush's choice to run the World
Bank, is embarking on a global tour to Africa, Europe and Latin America as the
United States seeks to mend relationships strained by the bank's outgoing
president.

"I certainly want to leave no stone unturned in showing people that I'm serious
in reaching out to hear their perspectives and views. I think it shows courtesy
and respect," Zoellick, currently a vice chairman at Wall Street giant Goldman
Sachs, told reporters Monday.

He plans to reach out to government leaders, financial officials and others
about issues facing the poverty-fighting institution and its programs in the
developing world.

"My immediate goal is simple: I want to listen and to learn," Zoellick said.

LANSING, Mich. (AP) - A federal appeals court Monday rejected Michigan's attempt
to ban a procedure opponents call partial-birth abortion, ruling the law
unconstitutional because it could also prohibit other abortion procedures.

A three-judge panel of the 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeal in Cincinnati said
the Michigan Legislature would have been "virtually guaranteed" a favorable
result on appeal had it copied an Ohio law that the 6th Circuit already has
upheld.

"It instead opted to use statutory language that pushed almost every boundary
that the Supreme Court has imposed for these types of laws," the judges said.

Previous attempts by Michigan lawmakers to stop the procedure were struck down
by federal courts in 1997 and 2001.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2007 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                              566 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

                              June 4, 2007 Monday

RUSSELL BLOOM: 1948-2007;
Outreach worker helped new refugees;
The speaker of many languages had worked for a Lutheran agency.

BYLINE: DANA TREEN

SECTION: Pg. B-2

LENGTH: 560 words


Jacksonville native Russell Bloom, who knew languages by the handful, traveled
the world to guide refugees to new lives and felt strongly about the social
justice in his work, died Saturday after complications from pulmonary fibrosis
following open heart surgery, a family member said.

Mr. Bloom, 58, was awaiting a lung transplant when he died at St. Lukes
Hospital, his sister Beth Kochba said.

The former director of refugee and immigrant services for Lutheran Social
Services of Northeast Florida, Mr. Bloom was instrumental in helping refugees
who relocated to Jacksonville from places such as Bosnia and Croatia and the
continents of Africa and South America.

"His were people who were fleeing persecution," said Wanda Lanier, the former
executive director of the city's Emergency Services and Homeless Coalition who
knew Mr. Bloom for 20 years. For a time, Mr. Bloom worked in her consulting
business. "He felt compelled to help people who had no hope when they came to
this country. They left everything, their possessions, sometimes their
families."

A 1967 graduate of Samuel Wolfson High School, Mr. Bloom earned a bachelor's
degree at Florida Presbyterian College and a masters in journalism from the
University of Florida. He joined the Peace Corps and was in West Africa for two
years before spending 15 years as a teacher in Cali, Colombia, where he adopted
a son.

Mr. Bloom returned to Jacksonville, where he focused on refugee issues with
Lutheran Social Services then worked with a United Nations refugee program
operating in Tajikistan and Brazil. Recently, he worked with the Jacksonville
Children's Commission.

"He really had such a breadth of knowledge of language, of culture," Lanier
said. "It was really something he embraced, the diversity. Certainly his work
exemplified that."

Mr. Bloom also was involved with the Jacksonville Sister Cities Association,
Rotary, and other organizations.

For all his outreach, Mr. Bloom was not one to seek a spotlight, said Kochba,
who remembered an intellectual brother who would slip away when family
gatherings became large.

"He hated a fuss, he hated a crowd," she said. "He was just a gentle, softspoken
person."

She said Mr. Bloom loved the outdoors and music and had a habit as an adult of
looking up new words in the dictionary.

"He'd tell you all his word for the day," she said.

He also had a habit of bringing people, often refugees who spoke no English, to
share holidays with his family.

"We always knew to set another couple of places," Kochba said. "So many of these
families would stay in touch with him, and he would stay in touch with them."

In addition to Kochba, of Great Falls, Va., Mr. Bloom is survived by his son,
Jaime Bloom, of Atlantic Beach; mother, Natalie Bloom, brother Malcolm Bloom,
sister Patty Nussbaum, all of Jacksonville; and Sister Nancy Bloom Loventhal, of
Nashville, Tenn. He was preceded in death by his father, Joseph Bloom.

A service to honor Mr. Bloom's life will be held at 10:30 a.m. today at
Congregation Ahavath Chesed, 8727 San Jose Blvd., Jacksonville. Flowers are
respectfully declined and memorial contributions may be made to the Jacksonville
Sister Cities Association, the Mayo Clinic Jacksonville Heart/Lung Transplant
Department of other charity.

Hardage-Giddens Hendricks Avenue Funeral Home is handling arrangements.

dana.treen@jacksonville.com, (904) 359-4091

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 The Florida Times-Union


                              567 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                             May 24, 2007 Thursday
                                  ALL EDITIONS

Saving the children;
Education program gives Africans entree to America

BYLINE: M. Elizabeth Roman, TELEGRAM & GAZETTE STAFF

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 908 words

DATELINE: WORCESTER


It was last winter when Abdirahman Ahmed, 17, and his family arrived in
Massachusetts after a four-night, three-day trip from a refugee camp in Kenya.

Abdirahman has eight siblings; his brother, Ayanle Ahmed, 5, is the youngest. At
Catholic Charities in Worcester earlier this month, Ayanle drew a picture of a
house with smoke coming from the chimney on large piece of paper as his brother
described his first day in America.

The picture prompted thoughts of snow, which Abdirahman had never seen before
arriving here. "What is this?" Abdirahman said, speaking in crisp English, about
his first encounter with snow and the hard transition from the African desert to
New England. "I didn't leave the house for three months."

The Somali native had waited 10 years with his family in a refugee camp in
Kenya, where education was a luxury, food was scarce and violence an everyday
reality.

Listening to him speak, it was hard to tell that the young man didn't know a
single word of English seven months ago when he arrived in America. Without any
previous formal education, the Accelerated Learning Laboratory school student
found an educational lifeline through the Worcester-based African Community
Education Program.

"There was no school. And the children would fight against you," Abdirahman said
of his days in the Kenyan refugee camp. "They think the fighting is fun. It was
dangerous."

Kaska Yawo, director of the African Community Education Program and a Liberian
refugee, came to the United States in 1998. The Worcester resident said his
memories of the struggles of children in the camps inspired him to start the
program, which was incorporated as a Massachusetts nonprofit in February.
Unofficially, about a half-dozen volunteers have been working with students
under the program banner for about two years. Donations pay all expenses.

Mr. Yawo helps relocate refugees for Catholic Charities during the day. Like all
the tutors for the African Community Education Program, he volunteers his time
to organize activities and instruction for about 45 children at the six-hour
Saturday program.

"The children are fortunate to come to this country," Mr. Yawo said. "But
because of their ages and the procedure for school, if you are 15 years old,
(officials) place the children in 10th grade. But most kids never went to school
before they came here."

Abdirahman said he spent his first few months in school in silence.

"I did not know how to read or write. I just sit in class alone. I did not talk
to others. I could not communicate. It was difficult," he said.

"I am very happy I found (the ACE program)," said Abdirahman. "They helped me
with my homework and projects."

Mr. Yawo said he has a 120-student waiting list and estimates the need will
grow.

"I know the refugees are still coming," Mr. Yawo said. "From Liberia, Sudan ...
the children keep coming."

According to the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program, each year the president
consults with Congress to determine the number of refugees from about 60
countries who will be resettled in the United States. The prospective immigrants
then begin a complex screening process that involves non-governmental
organizations, government agencies, the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees and the U.S. Embassy.

Refugees and people seeking asylum already in the United States can also file
for family reunification to facilitate the process for their kin.

All applicants must be interviewed by officers of the Department of Homeland
Security and undergo extensive health and security screenings before being
approved for resettlement in the United States, according to officials.

Mr. Yawo said it is difficult to leave one's country and start over again. But
the program provides a bridge between the children's former lives and the
future.

Morning lessons in math are followed by an afternoon session of one-on-one
homework help each Saturday. The program is housed at Chandler Magnet School.
Weekly theatee, dance and sports activities are included.

Cultural and emotional orientation is also key to the program.

"They come from trauma because of what they saw during the crisis. Some are
disturbed," Mr. Yawo said. "But we are working with them. These children can
succeed and go to college. Some have already passed the MCAS."

Program volunteers are also sensitive to the various

religious customs of the African students. Somalia refugees are generally
Muslim; other refugees may be Christian.

"We are very sensitive to approach issues, so that we know what not to bring,
not what not to say," he said.

AbuAsal AbuAsal, is a trained veterinarian from Darfur, Sudan, who came to the
United States last year. He now helps African students learn English and math in
the ACE program and in the public schools.

"We all suffer as Africans," Mr. AbuAsal said. "But if we had been educated, the
violence and the war would never have happened. Education is power."

He said education allows people to focus on creative aspects of life.

"Africans have always been ruled by others. When you are educated, you are
capable of ruling yourself," he said.

Organizers hope to establish a youth center that will be open seven days a week
after school. A computer lab and a library are also on their wish list.

One day, Abdirahman said, he would like to become a doctor to help the people
from his country.

"I would go back to my country when or if there is peace," he said.

Contact M. Elizabeth Roman by e-mail at eroman@telegram.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART
(1) Tutor and organizer Olga Valdman of the African Community Education Program,
center, works with four members of the Ahmed family, twins Adnar, left, and
Hali, 13, and brothers Abdirahman, 17, and Yasin, 15, right. (2) Tutor and
organizer Olga Valdman of the African Community Education Program, left, works
with the Ahmed brothers Abdirahman, 17, center, and Yasin, 15, right. (CHART)
Arriving in Mass.
(PHOTOS) T&G Staff/JIM COLLINS (CHART) T&G Staff

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              568 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 25, 2007 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

From Africa to America: A Resolute Pilgrim's Progress

BYLINE: By MIKE HALE

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 406 words


''Rosevelt's America,'' the story of an African refugee's progress in the United
States, shows up tonight on PBS in the wake of other, more high-profile examples
of that genre, including the feature documentary ''God Grew Tired of Us'' and
Dave Eggers's fictionalized memoir, ''What Is the What?'' It actually predates
them, though, having been shown in theaters in 2005, and it has one significant
point in its favor: it's only a half-hour long.

The directors, Roger Weisberg and Tod Lending, who have three Oscar nominations
for documentaries between them, manage to cram all the essential elements of
this type of narrative into that short running time in elegant fashion. Rosevelt
Henderson, a target of violence (he is a civil engineer) in a war-torn country
(in this case, Liberia), escapes with his two sons to the United States, where
he takes jobs he's vastly overqualified for (airport van driver, janitor) while
attending computer classes and working to bring over the family members he left
behind (wife and baby daughter).

''Rosevelt's America'' is in the inspirational subcategory, so there's never any
doubt that we'll be rewarded with this type of documentary's money shot: the
tearful airport reunion. And when it comes, you'll cry too.

The filmmakers don't explain how Mr. Henderson's story was chosen from among the
tens of thousands of possibilities, which leaves us to assume that inspiration
-- the slow but steady climb toward the American dream -- is the point. Any
doubts about that are banished by the ad for the DVD, which has a slightly
expanded title: ''Rosevelt's America: A Refugee's Inspiring Journey.''

Some viewers will feel that while survival is obviously its own reward, there's
still something not entirely cheering in the specter of a former civil engineer
and an accountant working as a janitor and as a nurse's aide.

But in this genre everything's about the next generation. And even though it has
been done before, the closing scene of the Hendersons' children in their Sunday
best as the reunited family joins a local church is pure uplift. It's easy to
forget your quibbles when Rosevelt, speaking of his wife's long-awaited arrival
in America, says, ''We got a team now.''  Rosevelt's America On most PBS
stations tonight (check local listings).  Produced and directed by Roger
Weisberg and Tod Lending; Produced by Public Policy Productions in association
with Thirteen/WNET New York.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rosevelt Henderson with his wife, Frances, and two of their
children. (Photo by Public Policy Productions and Thirteen/WNET)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company


                              569 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            February 25, 2007 Sunday

Rwandans find a new home, help in Dayton;
The 300 refugees in the area are the largest community in U.S., one man says.

BYLINE: By James Cummings Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 276 words


DAYTON - Dayton has the largest population of Rwandan refugees in the United
States, said Pio Ngilik, a Rwanda native working to help his countrymen gain
legal status in America. "The last time we tried to count, there were about 300
people including children," Ngilik said. "The second largest concentration is in
North Carolina from Raleigh and Durham to Greensboro. But they don't have as
many as we have here."

Gregory Garland, a spokesman for the U.S. State Department Africa Bureau,
couldn't confirm that Dayton's population of Rwandans was the largest, but he
indicated it's possible.

"There are relatively few Rwandans in the United States. They're not a major
population like the Nigerians or some other groups," Garland said. "There are
only 1,651 Rwandans who have officially come through the refugee program. There
are probably a lot more who have come through by other channels, but we don't
keep track of them at the State Department."

Dayton has hundreds of Rwandans living in the area because of the House of the
People's reputation as a place where refugees can get help, Ngilik said.

Most of the Rwandans who have come to the House of the People, located on Holt
Street, have gained formal asylum in the United States. And most of them remain
here, living and working in and around Dayton.

"And we try to educate our children about Rwanda. Living in America, they take
up everything they see here. They can come to despise their own language. We try
to tell them they can love America and not lose their roots."

Contact this reporter at (937) 225-2395 or jcummings@DaytonDaily News.com.

? Rwandans appreciate 'powerful,

democratic' U.S. Article on A6

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pio Ngilik

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                              570 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          Sunday Tasmanian (Australia)

                            February 25, 2007 Sunday

Climate calamity hots up

BYLINE: Marlowe Hood

SECTION: Pg. 77

LENGTH: 449  words


ADECADE or so ago, greens coined the term ''climate refugees'' to describe the
future victims of global warming.

Today, experts say such refugees may already number in the millions and could
reach 200 million by century's end, stoking tensions and potential for conflict.

They point to Inuit communities literally undercut by melting ice in North
America and Greenland, the thirsty people around central Africa's fast-shrinking
Lake Chad, and the tens of thousands displaced from New Orleans by Hurricane
Katrina.

In the future, these ranks could be swollen by refugees fleeing flooded homes,
parched farmland or wrecked economies, from small island states in the Pacific
to tropical Africa and the Mediterranean rim.

''The issue of environmental refugees promises to rank as one of the foremost
human crises or our time,'' says Norman Myers, an Oxford University professor.

What constitutes a refugee can stoke emotional debate.

Critics of the term say it is a politically charged misnomer, liable to hype or
inaccuracy.

Climate refugees, they argue, should not be confused with people who flee their
homes because of ecological stress caused by over-population, pollution, abuse
of freshwater or other acts of greed, ill judgment or bad planning.

In the case of Katrina, scientists acknowledge a single extreme weather event
cannot by itself be pinned to a long-term phenomenon, although they also point
out that warmer seas provide raw fuel to make hurricanes more vicious.

They also say that global warming is already amplifying environmental problems
in many countries -- and in the future, it will almost certainly help to push
vulnerable communities over the edge.

''There is going to be a lot of population movement linked to climate,'' says
Thomas Downing, director of the Stockholm Environment Institute in Oxford.

''Not all will be permanent refugees, but when you add climate to other forces
that push people beyond the capacity to cope, the numbers will increase.''

A Red Cross and Red Crescent study in 2000 said 25 million people had left their
homes because of environmental stress, roughly as many as the refugees from
armed conflict.

Myers, one of the leading experts on the link between climate change and forced
migration, says the number could double by 2010 and reach as high as 200 million
''once global warming kicks in''.

For fragile island nations such as Tuvalu in the South Pacific and the Maldives
in the Indian Ocean, global warming poses a triple threat.

Warmer seas spell a threat to the coral upon which islanders depend to attract
both fish and tourists; decreasing rainfall threatens drinking water supplies;
and higher sea levels pose a threat by storm flooding or inundation.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

AFP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              571 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                          February 21, 2007 Wednesday
                                 Metro Edition

Refugees give thanks;
Liberian mother, daughter end their dangerous journey in South Bend.

BYLINE: By JENNIFER OCHSTEIN, Tribune Correspondent

SECTION: COMMUNITY; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 1373 words


SOUTH BEND -- Esther Winner's mother used to tell her she was too "frisky" when
she talked about wanting to live in America.

From an early age, the native Liberian knew she wanted to be in the United
States.

"I said, 'One day American people will come and take me to America,'" Winner
would say as a child.

It turns out she was right.

In a sense, American people did come to bring her to America. It just wasn't in
the way she or anyone else would have wished.

But now, following a horrifying experience in their homeland, she and her
daughter are settling into life here, aided by a local couple and the Sunnyside
Presbyterian Church in South Bend.

Coming to America

Winner, 32, and her daughter Agnes Kwinuwon, 18, arrived in South Bend on Jan.
25 as refugees from two civil wars that rocked their home country of Liberia
from 1989 to 1996 and again from 1999 to 2003.

Winner and Kwinuwon traveled from Ghana in West Africa, where Winner was a
refugee in a camp for 10 years and Kwinuwon was a refugee since 2003, to escape
war in their country.

And that refugee camp is where the mother and daughter met Dan and Jenica Cory,
of South Bend.

The Corys, who were married in September 2005, traveled to Europe for their
honeymoon and a week later went to volunteer in Ghana for two months with Global
Volunteer Network. The organization provides volunteer opportunities in
communities around the world.

"We thought about the Peace Corps, but it was too long, and we stumbled on this
program," said Dan Cory, 24, a law student at the University of Notre Dame.

According to Jenica Cory, 25, a photographer, they made the trip before Dan
entered law school and were not yet settled after their marriage.

"It was the perfect time to do it," said Jenica in their South Bend home.

Jenica said they chose to go because of the fortunate lives they lead in the
U.S.

"We were born to parents who did not struggle," Jenica said. "When we wanted
something -- within reason -- we got it. So many people in the world don't just
because of where they were born. They have no control over where they were
born."

Little did they realize then that they would play a role in helping a Liberian
mother and daughter get the chance to change their own fortunes in the United
States.

The couple met Winner at the refugee camp and befriended her. She told them her
story and the story of Kwinuwon.

A family separated

Winner had been separated from her daughter for 10 years. (Winner was only 14
years old when she had Kwinuwon, but she pointed out that it is common for women
to have children at such a young age.)

Winner, Kwinuwon and her father were living with Winner's family in Liberia.

Kwinuwon's father wanted to take the child to meet his own family because she'd
never gotten to know them. The couple also wanted Kwinuwon to go to school.

Not expecting war to break out in their village, Winner said goodbye to the
4-year-old Kwinuwon and her father, expecting them back eventually.

But Winner's village was attacked by rebels and she herself was kidnapped. Her
parents were killed. She said she

doesn't know whether her own brothers and sisters survived. She escaped her
kidnapers when they were attacked by another rebel group. Winner and friends
left the village together.

"They become family," said Winner of the friends she left and went to Ghana
with. "We share and comfort each other."

For her part, Kwinuwon was thriving with her father and going to school. But
after the first civil war, another ripped through the country.

One day in 2003, Kwinuwon said, soldiers came to her father thinking he had
money. They wanted it, but he couldn't give any money. He didn't have any.

"They beat him," said Kwinuwon, unable to contain her grief. "I hid under the
bed. They took him away, and I left. I don't know whether he's alive or dead."

Nor does she know whether her half brothers and sisters survived.

Neighbors took her in, and they, too, left for a safer place.

According to Jenica, groups of refugees would come and go from groups, ending up
at different refugee camps along the journey.

"They end up where they think they'll be the safest," Jenica said.

Mom, daughter reunited

Kwinuwon ended up in Ghana, and, as luck would have it, she found herself at the
same refugee camp as her mother.

Whenever new refugees arrive at camps, the older refugees are instructed to see
if they know anyone who is arriving, Dan explained.

Winner saw her daughter and immediately knew the girl she hadn't seen since the
teenager was 4.

Two years later, the two met the Corys at the refugee camp. Before the couple
returned home, Winner asked them if they could help her and her daughter get out
of the refugee camp, which she said was also a dangerous place to live. They
wanted to be relocated to another country, preferably the United States.

"We told her we would do what we could to help, but we didn't make any
promises," Dan said.

When they returned home, the Corys contacted Refugee Services of South Bend.
They filled out a refugee interest form, indicating they would be willing to
sponsor Winner and Kwinuwon if they were relocated here. The form lets governing
agencies know that the two refugees would have a support group, Dan explained.
They would have support from the Corys, as well as their church, Sunnyside
Presbyterian Church.

For the mother and daughter, it was now a waiting game.

About once a week for more than a year, the mother and daughter would wake
themselves at 2 a.m. to catch a 3 a.m. bus to Accra, the capital city in Ghana,
to get to the United Nations building by 5 a.m. They would wait three hours to
talk to caseworkers about being relocated as refugees.

They were continually given the same story: "There's nothing we can do for you.
We'll call you."

Finally, Winner and Kwinuwon were awarded refugee status, which allowed them to
receive aid to be relocated, though they do have to repay the money given them
once they get jobs.

After months of interviews, prescreenings, filing paperwork, medical screenings
for HIV and other diseases and cultural orientation, Winner and Kwinuwon
continued to wait, never knowing if they would be relocated to the United States
or if they would be relocated at all.

And it seems the Corys found out before their friends they were coming to
America.

"On Jan. 4 we got a call from the agency that they would be arriving Jan. 25,"
Dan said.

Shortly after, Winner and Kwinuwon found their names on a list of those being
relocated. Winner's name was first, and they, at long last, would be going to
South Bend, Indiana, U.S.A.

A time of firsts

Her first plane ride, her first time seeing a bathtub and shower, her first time
using liquid soap, sleeping in a soft bed, eating a hamburger ("it was
delicious," Winner said), using a toilet, seeing dogs and horses -- Winner has
had so many firsts it seems she can't count them any more.

Winner said when she prays she asks to always remember where she came from, she
asks for empowerment and to always be thankful for the United States.

"I pray I will always abide by what my country wants from me," Winner said.

And she wants one more thing now: a job. Unable to work as a refugee in Ghana,
she wants to be able to take responsibility for herself and Kwinuwon, who will
likely go to high school and take on a part-time job as well.

Winner must get her GED, but she would also like to further her education and
become a nurse.

"You could be an engineer," Kwinuwon announced to her mother.

But Winner wants to work with older people, possibly in a retirement home
helping others.

Exodus Refugee Immigration office, of Indianapolis, is working with the Corys
and Sunnyside Church to help the two find jobs and acclimate to their new
surroundings. Both have a fair understanding of the English language.

For her part, Kwinuwon, a freshman at Adams High School, wants to go to college
and major in agricultural science and shipping management.

They have big dreams, but it seems with their persistence nothing is impossible
for the two.

They spent their first week in the United States staying with the Corys, but
then moved into their own apartment on the east side of South Bend.

"I want to say thank you to Daniel and Jenica and the United States for letting
me come into such a great nation," Winner said.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Esther Mama Winner prepares a meal for family and friends in her South
Bend apartment. She and her daughter are refugees from Liberia. Tribune
Photo/JANAR STEWART
Clockwise from left, Sunnyside Presbyterian Church members Jenica Cory and her
husband, Dan, join Adams High School freshman Agnes Hawa Kwinuwon and her
mother, Esther Mama Winner, at the latter's apartment in South Bend. The Corys,
who first met Winner and her daughter at a Ghanan refugee camp in 2004, serve as
unofficial sponsors for the two Liberian immigrants. Tribune Photo/JANAR STEWART

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 South Bend Tribune Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              572 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Courier Mail (Australia)

                           February 3, 2007 Saturday
                          First with the news Edition

Alarming statistics give no refuge

BYLINE: Marlowe Hood

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 757  words


Global warming is set to displace populations around the globe, writes Marlowe
Hood in Paris

MILLIONS of people already could be classified as ''climate refugees'' and their
numbers could swell to 200 million by century's end, experts warned yesterday.

The grim assessment came as the United Nations leading climate panel issued its
strongest warning yet that human activities are causing global warming which may
bring more drought, heatwaves and rising seas.

The panel predicted temperature rises of 1.1 to 6.4C by the year 2100 but said
its best estimate was for rises of 1.8 to 4.0C.

The report also projects sea levels rising by 18cm to 59cm by the end of the
century.

Communities facing the greatest risk have included Inuit settlements literally
undercut by melting ice in North America and Greenland, the thirsty people
around central Africa's fast-shrinking Lake Chad, and the tens of thousands
displaced from New Orleans in August 2005 by Hurricane Katrina.

In the future, these ranks could be swollen by refugees fleeing flooded homes,
parched farmland or wrecked economies, from small island states in the Pacific
to tropical Africa and the Mediterranean rim.

''The issue of environmental refugees promises to rank as one of the foremost
human crises of our time,'' Norman Myers, an Oxford University professor, said.

However, what constitutes a refugee can stoke an emotional debate for some.

Critics of the term say it is a politically-charged misnomer which is liable to
hype or inaccuracy. Climate refugees, they argue, should not be confused with
people who flee their homes because of ecological stress caused by
over-population, pollution, abuse of freshwater or other acts of greed, ill
judgment or simple bad planning.

In the case of Katrina, scientists acknowledge a single extreme weather event
cannot by itself be pinned to a long-term phenomenon, although they also point
out that warmer seas provide raw fuel to make hurricanes more vicious.

But they also say that global warming is already amplifying environmental
problems in many countries -- and in the future, it will almost certainly help
to push vulnerable communities over the edge.

''There is going to be a lot of population movement linked to climate,'' Thomas
Downing, director of the Stockholm Environment Institute in Oxford, said.

Continued P41

From P40

For fragile island nations such as Tuvalu and Kirabati in the South Pacific and
the Maldives in the Indian Ocean, global warming poses a triple threat.

Warmer seas spell a threat to the coral upon which islanders depend to attract
both fish and tourists; decreasing rainfall threatens drinking water supplies;
and higher sea levels pose a threat by storm flooding. In the densely populated
flood plains of Bangladesh, rising seas will not only ruin fertile regions but
stoke the storm surges that periodically ravage the low-lying nation.

Kirabati President Anote Tong yesterday welcomed world efforts to stem global
warming but warned these may be too late for his homeland.

''We're very happy that now at last that all the countries are in agreement that
we have a problem with global warming,'' Mr Tong said.

''The question is, what can we now do? We believe it's already reached a stage
where it is irreversible for most countries.''

Mr Tong said his nation was already suffering, with land and houses washed away.

''It's about the lives of the people, the homes, the source of livelihood. A lot
of our people survive on taro, and the seawater has gone into that, so it's
affecting their lives directly,'' he said.

Although islanders have tried to move away from the water, the narrowness of the
low-lying atolls means that their only choice may be to leave, perhaps in as
little as 50 years, Mr Tong added.

Our stormy future

The key findings of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change include:

* It is ''very likely'' that global warming is caused by man.

* Human-caused warming and rising sea levels will continue for centuries.

* Temperatures could rise by 1.1C to 6.4C by 2100. That was a wider range than
in the 2001 IPCC report, which gave a range of 1.5C to 5.8C. The best estimate
for the next century is for rises of 1.8C to 4C.

* On sea levels, the report projects rising levels of 18cm to 59cm by the end of
the century. An additional 10cm to 20cm are possible if recent melting of polar
ice sheets continues. The 2001 report projected a sea level rise of up to 89cm.

* An increase in hurricane and tropical cyclone strength since 1970 can ''more
likely than not'' be attributed to man-made global warming.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

AFP/Reuters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CML


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              573 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           January 20, 2007 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

He Escaped Sudan, But Not the Tug of A Heavy Heart

BYLINE: Neely Tucker, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Style; C01

LENGTH: 722 words


What debt does a man owe his past? Do survivors have an obligation to the dead?

As a boy, John Bul Dau ate mud, drank urine and swam rivers to outrun the men
with the guns. He survived a 1,000-mile trek from his village in southern Sudan
to refugee camps in Ethiopia and Kenya. He dug shallow graves to bury children
who collapsed. The next day, a hand or foot would be stretching out of the
earth, gnawed by hyenas.

As a man, John Dau is a 34-year-old security guard and college student in
Syracuse, N.Y. He's recently married, a brand-new father and a citizen of a
strange country called the United States.

But Dau, the subject of the National Geographic documentary "God Grew Tired of
Us," which opened in Washington yesterday, is using his life here to try to
improve the lot of people back home. Life in its fullest sense, he says, is
something in which connections remain, over the years, over the oceans.

"I'm getting into the 'my my my' and 'I I I' thing here. But I need to stay in
my culture, to be able to say, 'This is ours.' I want to combine the 'I' and the
'us.' "

It's that sense of the language, and rumination on what this life means, that
makes Dau the unlikely star of an unlikely hit  --  an 85-minute film about a
few of the young Sudanese refugees who fled the government extermination of
their ethnic kin in the late 1980s. (The title stems from a haunting soliloquy
Dau has in the film.)

He's talking in a small office in the National Geographic headquarters in
downtown Washington, soft of voice, shy of manner. He's wearing a leather jacket
and a Disney "Cars" watch. He is 6 feet 8 inches tall. Last week, Variety
reported that at the Hollywood premiere of the film, you could pretty much walk
up to producer Brad Pitt and chat as long as you wanted. Dau? Forget it. The man
was mobbed.

More than a decade ago, Dau and the 25,000 or so of his young compatriots were
dubbed, in someone's idea of a fundraising gimmick for aid organizations, the
"lost boys" of Sudan, a moniker that  has more to do with Peter Pan and Western
imagery than it does a brutal conflict bordering the Horn of Africa. But it was
effective at highlighting the plight of thousands of young men who, once in a
sprawling refugee camp in northern Kenya, couldn't go home again.

"Their suffering, even on a refugee scale, was as acute as humanly possible,"
says John Prendergast, senior adviser at the International Crisis Group, who has
been going into Sudan for 20 years. "The extremities of violence and horror they
had to endure, alone, without their families, just set them apart."

After nine years in limbo, a few thousand young men were granted asylum in the
United States.

Dau, a natural leader, was one of those chosen, and the film follows his 2001
journey, along with that of two others, into the complications of life in a
place with grocery stores, swimming pools, indoor plumbing and confounding
realities.

"We came with maybe the wrong perception of America. People thought it was so
easy here. You'd tie a green card around your neck and you could go to any
restaurant and eat," he says.

He became the focus of the film by happenstance. There was a message board in
the refugee camp  --  this was a place of 80,000 people  --  to which people
would stampede to see who had been granted immigration acceptance.

Film director Christopher Quinn: "We were standing there at the name board, and
John had already been chosen. He came up to me and asked, 'What happens to my
friends left in the camp?' "

So even as Dau landed in America, with one inglorious job after another  --
factory worker, burger flipper --  he sent money back to the refugees. He also
helped create a tiny nonprofit at a local church, the American Care for Sudan
Foundation (www.acsudanfoundation.org). It's all volunteer, with 100 percent of
the proceeds going toward building a hospital clinic in his home region.

He's just starting work at a new nonprofit, Direct Change
(www.directchange.org), that is trying to push the clinic funding from its
current $180,000 level to its $230,000 goal. They're scheduled to start
construction next week.

"I'm really looking forward to that," he says. "Our women have never given birth
in a hospital before."

What does a man owe his past?

John Dau, day by day in America, is finding out.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


                              574 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           October 25, 2006 Wednesday

The Budapest Irish;
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS

BYLINE: JAMES BLACK; CHARLES LEGGE

SECTION: ED IRE; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 1245 words


QUESTION What happened to the Hungarian refugees who came to Ireland after the
Hungarian uprising was suppressed in 1956?

AFTER the Hungarian uprising was put down by Soviet forces in early November,
1956, many thousands of people fled the country. A total of 530 Hungarian
refugees came to Ireland,where church gate collections were held for them up and
down the country.

Many of them came to Ireland in transit and quickly moved on to Canada and the
U.S., where they settled. But about 160 were housed in a disused Army barrack at
Meelick, just outside Limerick city, but in Co. Clare.

Knockalisheen Camp had been built at the start of the Emergency period of the
Second World War, when Ireland seemed to be at risk of immediate invasion by
both Britain and Germany. Army numbers were boosted quickly so that by the time
this new camp had been built, 300,000 men had been enrolled. The camp was one of
the places designed to house and train new recruits.

By the early 1950s, the place had fallen into disuse but was still in a
reasonable state of repair and the 160 Hungarians were housed there.

A total of 51 children were included among the refugees and they were taught
both English and Irish at nearby St Munchin's national school.

However, it wasn't at all to the liking of the refugees who were housed there
and soon the refugees' complaints over their living conditions and their
enforced idleness developed into the serious situation of a hunger strike.

The mass hunger strike attracted widespread coverage in the newspapers of the
time. After three days, however, local politicians and members of the Irish Red
Cross managed to reach a settlement with the refugees and the hunger strike was
called off.

The matter even reached the hallowed benches of the Dil, where it was the
subject of a furious debate in May 1957. The then Minister for External Affairs,
Frank Aiken, had to fend off awkward questions as best he could.

Some of the troublemakers at the camp had caused so much bother for the
authorities that the Irish Government had to make an arrangement for the
authorities in the U.S. and the UK to take them off its hands.

In the summer of 1958, most of the refugees left the camp, going to North
America as well as Germany.

Only a handful of the refugees that came here decided to stay.

Ironically,in recent years, the old Army camp has been used once again to house
refugees, this time mainly from Africa.

Sara Frost, Limerick.

QUESTION In the Fifties the Burnley goalkeeper Colin McDonald played for England
but his career was ended prematurely after he broke his leg. What became of him?

COLIN McDonald broke his leg playing for the Football League against Ireland in
Dublin in March 1959. He never played senior football again despite several
appearances for the junior and reserve teams during Burnley FC's Championship
season of 1959/60.

He left Burnley and became a coach at Wycombe Wanderers, then chief scout at
Bury, while he played again for Altrincham in the Cheshire League. After a spell
as Bolton's chief scout, he rejoined Bury as administration manager before being
appointed general manager in 1970, also acting as team manager for three months.
He later coached at Oldham and Tranmere.

Now retired, Colin lives near Tottington near Bury, and enjoys the company of
his grandchildren.

Darren Bentley, Burnley FC.

QUESTION Where was 'Old Zealand'?

ZEELAND (also called Zealand in English) is a province of the Netherlands.

The province is in the south-west of the country and consists of a number of
islands (hence its name, meaning Sea-Land). Its capital, Middelburg, has a
population of 380,000.

New Zealand was discovered in 1642 by the Dutch navigator Abel Janszoon Tasman.

He named it Staten Landt, believing it to be part of the land of that name off
the coast of Argentina.

When that was shown not to be so, Dutch authorities named it Nova Zeelandia in
Latin, Nieuw Zeeland in Dutch. Captain James Cook subsequently called the
islands 'New Zealand' in English.

The Australian island state of Tasmania is named after Tasman.

John Clarke, Wolverhampton, West Midlands.

QUESTION Did guitarist Mick Ronson write several of David Bowie's early tracks,
exchanging the writing credits for arrangement credits?

FURTHER to the earlier answer, Mick Ronson's early group, the Rats, did record
prior to the formation of the Spiders From Mars. They released a single on
Vertigo Records in 1971, the Dylan song 4th Hour Of My Sleep. The Bside was a
tremendously raucous, self-penned number called Powers Of Darkness. It was
released under the band name 'Ronno'.

I've just sold mine on eBay for Pounds 80, so it will make a nice little nest
egg if you have one in the attic.

Giles Hamilton, London.

QUESTION Are there any 'posh' Australians?

FURTHER to the earlier answer, I stayed with my brother in Toorak, an inner
suburb of Melbourne, this summer. My brother, though, is not a millionaire but a
nurse who rents, Toorak is full of them. Many soap stars and TV personalities
live there.

Shops are mostly designer, and Toorak is compared to Rodeo Drive in Beverly
Hills, California.

With expensive bistros, the treelined streets are full of huge mansions in
extensive private gardens with helicopter pads. The noise used to keep me awake
at night.

When Melbourne was founded, the wealthy chose to build their stately homes on
the high bank of the Yarra River, leaving the floodprone lower ground for the
poor.

This old money has in recent years been joined by new.

Tanya Kay, Belfast.

QUESTION When was the first shopping centre in Ireland opened?

IRELAND'S very first shopping centre was opened at Stillorgan, Co Dublin, in
1966, so this year sees its 40th anniversary.

was the first shopping centre in It is now owned by Treasury Holdings and after
ten years of having planning applications for its improvement rejected, it now
has the all-clear from An Bord Pleanla for a major revamp.

In the economically depressed 70s and 80s the idea of shopping centres was slow
to get off the ground.

When the Crescent shopping centre opened at Dooradoyle in Limerick in 1973, it
marked the first extension of the idea outside Dublin.

One of the next shopping centres to open was in the Powerscourt Town House off
South William Street, but this was a relatively small development of a
traditional 18th century townhouse.

It opened as a shopping centre in 1981. The much larger St Stephen's Green in
Dublin started trading in 1988.

These days, shopping centres and their offshoot, retail parks, are to be found
in almost every large town in Ireland.

Yet 40 years ago, shopping centres were only seen in American movies and they
were such a revolutionary idea that few people in Irish retailing thought they
could succeed as well as they have.

Laura Farrell, Derry.

QUESTIONS

Q: Victorian engineer Sir Joseph Bazalgette solved London's 'great stink' with
his magnificent sewerage system. How did other European capitals manage?

T. Rogerson, Denbigh.

Q: When I was at infant school during the war, I read a series of wonderful
animal books about such characters as Loki the wolf, Miska the seal, Timur the
tiger and Rajah the elephant. I would love to get hold of these for my
grandchildren - can anyone remember the author?

Neil T. Hiscox, Bristol.

Q: On a recent episode of Countdown, Carol Voderman said that, in golf, there
had been only two recorded instances of a 'condor' - four strokes under par on a
single hole. By whom were the condors scored, when and on which golf courses?

Brian Keehne, Oxford.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 1956 AND ALL THAT: AFTER THE FAILURE OF THE BUDAPEST UPRISING 530
REFUGEES CAME TO IRELAND

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              575 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                           October 12, 2006 Thursday
                                  ALL EDITION

THE NATION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 488 words


President sets quota on refugees for 2007

WASHINGTON - President Bush said Wednesday that up to 70,000 refugees from
around the world can be admitted to the United States in the next year.

Mr. Bush declared the figure in a memo to the secretary of state, as he does
each year after consulting with Congress as required by law. Mr. Bush has set
the figure at 70,000 each time.

The United States admitted 69,304 refugees in 2001 but suspended admissions
briefly after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. Admissions dropped to
27,029 in 2002 as the government intensified screening of refugees. Admissions
crept up to 53,813 in the 2005 fiscal year, then dropped to 41,500 in fiscal
year 2006.

The president laid out maximum numbers to be accepted from each region of the
globe:

22,000 from Africa.

11,000 from East Asia.

6,500 from Europe and Central Asia.

5,500 from the Near East and South Asia.

5,000 from Latin America and the Caribbean.

The remaining 20,000 can be allocated by the State Department to various regions
as the need arises.

Amish school to be torn down

NICKEL MINES, Pa. - The Amish school where a gunman shot 10 girls last week,
killing five of them, is expected to be demolished today, a fire department
official said.

"Tomorrow morning the school is going to be torn down," Mike Hart, a spokesman
for the Bart Fire Company, said late Wednesday.

Private contractors are scheduled to start demolishing the school before dawn
and will haul the debris to a landfill.

The wounded girls are all still believed to be hospitalized. The hospitals are
no longer giving information about the patients.

GOP wants probe of Berger

WASHINGTON - House Republicans on Wednesday sought a congressional investigation
into the improper handling of classified documents by President Clinton's
national security adviser.

Sandy Berger admitted last year that he took classified documents from the
National Archives in 2003 and destroyed some of them at his office. He pleaded
guilty and was fined $50,000.

Ten lawmakers, led by House Armed Services Committee Chairman Duncan Hunter,
R-Calif., and Judiciary Committee Chairman James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., said in
a letter that they wanted the House Government Reform Committee to investigate.

In other news

GENETIC SAVINGS & CLONE, a San Francisco biotechnology company that sold cloned
pets, sent letters to its customers last month informing them it will close at
the end of the year because of little demand for cloned cats. The company had
recently reduced the price from $50,000 to $32,000.

A MAN WAS CHARGED WITH first-degree murder Wednesday in the deaths of his
mother, grandmother and uncle, whose battered bodies were found scattered
throughout their Chicago home, authorities said. Police think money was the
motive.

ALASKA'S PRUDHOE BAY will produce very few barrels of oil over the next several
days as BP scrambles to fix an electrical problem.

- Edited from wire reports by James Folker

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: NATIONAL BRIEFS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                              576 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                        The York Dispatch (Pennsylvania)

                           October 12, 2006 Thursday

Washington dispatches

SECTION: WORLD; National

LENGTH: 1171 words


FEDERAL FUNDS
Specter says aide under investigation
Sen. Arlen Specter has acknowledged that authorities are examining whether one
of his aides broke the law by allegedly helping her lobbyist husband get federal
dollars for his clients.

Specter, R-Pa., yesterday provided a copy of a letter sent by the FBI in August
to his office that said staff member Vicki Siegel Herson is under investigation
for possible criminal contact for allegations reported earlier this year by the
media.

USA Today first reported in February that Specter helped direct $48.7 million in
Pentagon spending over the past five years to clients of the staff member's
lobbyist husband, Michael Herson. Specter has said the institutions that
ultimately got the money were represented by people not associated with Siegel's
husband, and he was never lobbied by Siegel's husband nor his firm.

At the time the earmarks were obtained, Siegel was Specter's legislative
assistant for appropriations

The letter from the FBI asked that Specter provide results of an internal
investigation of the matter conducted by his former chief of staff, which he
said he did.

Specter, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, has denied
violating any Senate ethics rules.

He has said the projects going to Pennsylvania were important for national
defense, including one to Drexel University for Pentagon communications,
networking technology and civil-preparedness against bioterrorism.

BUSH SETS CEILING
70,000 refugees OK'd for 2007
President Bush says up to 70,000 refugees from around the world can be admitted
to the United States in the next year.

Bush declared the figure yesterday in a memo to the secretary of state, as he
does each year after consulting with Congress as required by law. Bush has set
the figure at 70,000 each time.

The United States admitted 69,304 refugees in 2001 but suspended admissions
briefly after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. Admissions dropped to
27,029 in 2002 as the government intensified screening of refugees. Admissions
crept up to 53,813 in the 2005 fiscal year, then dropped to 41,500 in fiscal
year 2006.

The president laid out maximum numbers to be accepted from each region of the
globe:

---22,000 from Africa.

---11,000 from East Asia.

---6,500 from Europe and Central Asia.

---5,500 from the Near East and South Asia.

---5,000 from Latin America and the Caribbean.

The remaining 20,000 can be allocated by the State Department to various regions
as the need arises.

SEN. HARRY REID
Democratic leader awaits ethics ruling
Senate Democratic leader Harry Reid is awaiting word from the Senate ethics
committee on whether he failed to properly account for a business deal that
allowed him to collect a $1.1 million windfall on land he hadn't personally
owned for three years.

Reid sought the opinion after The Associated Press reported that the senator
didn't disclose to Congress that he first sold the land to a friend's company
back in 2001 and took an ownership stake in the company. He didn't collect the
seven-figure payout until the company sold the land again in 2004 to others.

Reid reported the 2004 transaction as a personal sale, never disclosing his
earlier sale or the stake in the company.

The Nevada Democrat's deal was engineered by Jay Brown, a longtime friend and
former casino lawyer whose name surfaced in a major political bribery trial this
summer and in other prior organized crime investigations. Brown has never been
charged with wrongdoing, except for a 1981 federal securities complaint that was
settled out of court.

Ethics experts told AP that Reid's inaccurate accounting of the deal to Congress
appeared to violate Senate ethics rules and raised other issues concerning taxes
and potential gifts.

"Everything I did was transparent," Reid told a Las Vegas news conference
yesterday after the AP story was published.

"I paid all the taxes. Everything is fully disclosed to the ethics committee and
everyone else. As I said, if there is some technical change that the ethics
committee wants, I'll be happy to do that."

Land deeds obtained by AP during a review of Reid's business dealings show:

---The deal began in 1998 when Reid bought undeveloped residential property on
Las Vegas' booming outskirts for about $400,000. Reid bought one lot outright,
and a second parcel jointly with Brown. One of the sellers was a developer who
was benefiting from a government land swap that Reid supported. The seller never
talked to Reid.

---In 2001, Reid sold the land for the same price to a limited liability
corporation created by Brown. The senator didn't disclose the sale on his annual
public ethics report or tell Congress he had any stake in Brown's company. He
continued to report to Congress that he personally owned the land.

---After getting local officials to rezone the property for a shopping center,
Brown's company sold the land in 2004 to other developers and Reid took $1.1
million of the proceeds, nearly tripling the senator's investment. Reid reported
it to Congress as a personal land sale.

The complex dealings allowed Reid to transfer ownership, legal liability and
some tax consequences to Brown's company without public knowledge, but still
collect the payoff nearly three years later.

Reid hung up the phone when questioned about the deal during an AP interview
last week.

The senator's aides said no money changed hands in 2001 and that Reid instead
got an ownership stake in Brown's company equal to the value of his land. Reid
continued to pay taxes on the land and didn't disclose the deal because he
considered it a "technical transfer," they said.

They also said they have no documents proving Reid's stake in the company
because it was an informal understanding between friends.

The 1998 purchase "was a normal business transaction at market prices," Reid
spokesman Jim Manley said. "There were several legal steps associated with the
investment during those years that did not alter Senator Reid's actual ownership
interest in the land."

Senate ethics rules require lawmakers to disclose on their annual ethics report
all transactions involving investment properties -- regardless of profit or loss
-- and to report any ownership stake in companies.

Kent Cooper, a former Federal Election Commission official who oversaw
government disclosure reports for federal candidates for two decades, said
Reid's failure to report the 2001 sale and his ties to Brown's company violated
Senate rules.

"This is very, very clear," Cooper said. "Whether you make a profit or a loss
you've got to put that transaction down so the public, voters, can see exactly
what kind of money is moving to or from a member of Congress."

Stanley Brand, former Democratic chief counsel of the House, said Reid should
have disclosed the 2001 sale and that his omission fits a larger culture in
Congress where lawmakers aren't following or enforcing their own rules.

"It's like everything else we've seen in last two years. If it is not enforced,
people think it's not enforced and they get lax and sloppy," Brand said.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 York Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              577 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                             October 6, 2006 Friday

Gay refugees find safe place

BYLINE: Thulasi Srikanthan, Toronto Star

SECTION: GTA; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 520 words


For years, Ugandan-born Shafiq Mawji kept his sexual orientation to himself,
terrified of the consequences.

Today, Mawji - who came out of the closet two years ago - is helping other
refugees at The 519, a Toronto organization that is open to everyone but focuses
on programming for the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgendered communities.

"It's the Mecca for gay refugees from outside of Canada," said Mawji, who joined
shortly after arriving here in March 2004. He insisted on using a pseudonym, for
fear of affecting his ongoing refugee case.

Refugees from all over the world - including Eastern Europe, Africa and South
and Central America - come out for the "refugee peer support group," one of the
key programs The 519 offers.

The 519 is supported by the United Way of Greater Toronto and located on Church
St. in the heart of Toronto's gay community. It offers a variety of programs
that include a legal advice clinic, anti-violence programs, income-tax clinics,
gay parenting programs and community counselling.

"We noticed many people coming to 519 to make contact with the (gay community)
once they arrived from countries where it is not safe to identify themselves,"
said Alison Kemper, executive director.

"I think coming out for some people is way too dangerous because in some
countries, there is the death penalty. Once inside the group, they are willing
to identify themselves."

For many refugees, coming to a welcoming space is a transforming experience, she
said.

"For many, it's an overwhelming experience to be in a gay- and lesbian-positive
environment," Kemper said.

"It's something that doesn't exist in many places around the world.

"For many, it's their first experience with a place that is safe, secure and
accepting."

Many refugees come to the group facing several challenges, said Geoff MacDonald,
volunteer co-ordinator of the refugee peer support group.

"There is certainly racism, they are alienated, and there is difficulty
navigating the system," MacDonald said, referring to the struggles of many to
find status in Canada.

"A lot of people are also nervous. They are not sure what we do."

But it hasn't stopped people from coming, he said.

The program has been popular, drawing about 100 people in the past two years.

And for those like Mawji, it's a place he can't imagine doing without.

"I came from a troubled childhood. I never had support," he said.

"This was like coming to a new family. It's a refuge."

Mawji, who has lived in Pakistan and the United States, says the support group
has helped him in his attempts to get refugee status in Canada, and to deal with
the emotional fallout from his family shunning him and having his credentials
not recognized in his new country.

"I was a basket case," he said. Now, he says, he's feeling a bit better because
"they help you find your way through the maze."

This year marks the 50th anniversary of the United Way of Greater Toronto.

The target for the 2006 fundraising campaign is $100 million to support 200
health and social services agencies serving more than one million people in
Toronto.

To donate, go to www.unitedwaytoronto.com or call 416-777-2001.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  David Cooper toronto star Geoff MacDonald is the volunteer
co-ordinator for the Refugee Peer Support Group, a key program at The 519 on
Church St., which provides services for gay refugees.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                  Copyright 2006 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              578 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           Christian Science Monitor

                           August 16, 2006, Wednesday

Reporters on the Job

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 305 words


* African Refugees: Correspondent Rob Crilly has reported from several refugee
camps in Africa, including ones in Darfur and Uganda. But he says that the camp
housing 136,000 refugees in northern Kenya is one of the best organized, despite
the influx of new refugees.

"It's been here for 15 years. As a result, the Care International compound
includes meeting rooms, satellite TV, and even guest accommodations for visiting
journalists and diplomats," says Rob.

"It's not like Darfur, for example, where the newly established camps are little
more than patches of sand. Refugees, too, have all the trappings of a permanent,
self-contained city. There are Internet cafes and shopping stalls selling tea
and coffee.

"The permanency of the camp is an indication of the enduring nature of Somalia's
refugee problem," he says.

* Anti-American Anger: The anti-US feeling keeps flowing out of the rubble of
Lebanon, says staff writer Scott Peterson. He's heard similar diatribes for
years from Iran to Somalia. But this is among the worst.

He notes that Hizbullah is capitalizing on it with large banners, stretched
across bombed buildings, that say "Made in the USA" in English, and "America is
the head of terrorism" in Arabic.

"People have been spitting out their anger, pointing to the rubble, and asking
me if this is US democracy," says Scott.

"On Tuesday, one man leaned out the window of his house, and shouted a series of
expletives in English," says Scott. "Then, he said that Americans 'will teach
our children to hate them, as long as they live.' Without missing a beat, the
schoolteacher who I was interviewing on the street replied, 'They already have.'
"

David Clark Scott

World editor

Let us hear from you.

Mail to: One Norway Street, Boston, MA 02115 via e-mail: world(at)csmonitor.com

(c) Copyright 2006. The Christian Science Monitor

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2006 The Christian Science Publishing Society
                              All Rights Reserved


                              579 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                      Northern Territory News (Australia)

                            August 9, 2006 Wednesday

Shayne's into Africa to help new arrivals

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 181 words


A TEACHER will visit a refugee camp in Kenya to research ways to help African
migrants ease in to Territory schools.

Shayne O'Halloran, from Darwin High School, is one of five recipients of a
$12,000 Westfield Chief Minister's scholarship.

A teacher for 29 years, she helps some of the 100 school-aged African refugees
-- who settle in Darwin every year -- cope with mainstream classes.

''We have waves if immigrants from different countries come to Darwin. The
latest wave is out of Africa, but we don't know anything about them,'' she said.

''To be a good teacher, you've got to know about your students' background.''

Ms O'Halloran, 52, will be going to Kakuma refugee camp, one of the largest
United Nations' camps in Kenya.

She will also visit the United States and Canada, two other countries that
accept large numbers of African refugees.

She said she would observe their techniques of accelerated language classes,
which would hopefully be applicable in the Territory. ''My main thrust is how
they teach English -- I'm looking for the quickest and most effective way.''

-- EMMA GUMBLETON

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NTN


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              580 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             June 22, 2006 Thursday

Myanmar's repression

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 407 words


Canada's acceptance of some 800 Myanmarese refugees languishing for a decade in
a remote camp in Thailand is a good thing. Their dire situation cried out for a
humanitarian response. Immigration Minister Monte Solberg rightly said that they
could not continue waiting, in destitution, for repression to end so they could
return home.

But it also represents a colossal failure: the world's inability and lack of
resolve in dealing with the refugees' persecutors, the despicable military junta
in Myanmar. This is the regime of generals that ignored Nobel laureate Aung San
Suu Kyi's landslide election victory 15 years ago and has confined her for most
of the time since to house arrest. This is the same gang that persecuted ethnic
Karens such as those coming to Canada for sanctuary. These are the same
isolationist rulers who have turned the former Burma into one of the world's
poorest nations.

Last year, South Africa's Bishop Desmond Tutu and former Czech president Vaclav
Havel made the case that Myanmar has become such a threat to peace and security
in Southeast Asia that it fulfills the historical criteria (the overthrow of a
democratic government, internal factional conflicts, human-rights violations,
refugee outflows and drug trafficking) for direct intervention by the United
Nations Security Council. But when the United States tried to make some tracks
on cobbling together a resolution on Myanmar, China, Russia and Japan begged to
differ and it never got off the ground. China is a military partner of Myanmar;
Russia and Japan are leery of intervention.

Pleas to Myanmar's rulers to change course clearly have not been enough; nor
have unilateral sanctions by the United States and the European Union. It would
be nice to think that some of Myanmar's neighbours, who know a thing or two
about regional stability, can press the reluctant big powers to change their
minds. Yesterday, the caucus on Myanmar at the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations said ASEAN is at its wit's end about how to deal with the country.
"There is no democratic progress in Myanmar and ASEAN is lost on what to do,"
Malaysia's Zaid Ibraim, chairman of the caucus, told Agence France Presse.
"Unless there is pressure from the UN and the Security Council, I do not see any
changes taking place, and Aung San Suu Kyi will continue to be detained." The
need for Security Council unanimity and action on Myanmar is as acute as it is
long overdue.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2006 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              581 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 8, 2006 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

At Human Rights Film Festival, Horror and Hope

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 884 words


Amid the somber procession of injustices paraded by the annual Human Rights
Watch International Film Festival, rays of light inevitably filter through.
Human resilience, determination and hope in the face of hardship and oppression
can never be underestimated. When you run across such radiance in a grim
environment, your heart surges with wonder.

''The Refugee All Stars,'' the opening film this evening of the 15-day festival
at the Walter Reade Theater in Lincoln Center, follows a hardy band of six
Sierra Leonean musicians who fled their country's civil war to settle in the
Sembakounya refugee camp in rural Guinea. For all their diversity in age and
background -- members of the group include a teenage rapper and a rhythm
guitarist in his 50's -- their stories, told in a reggae- and soul-tinged West
African style, knit into a powerful expression of common experience. As
harrowing as these personal tales may be, the music buoying them is uplifting.
The cliche bears repeating: music heals and creates community.

Directed by Zach Niles and Banker White, two documentarians from the Bay Area,
this no-frills movie, made over three years, follows the group, founded in 2002,
as it embarks on a concert tour of Guinean refugee camps during which the
members tell their stories and reunite with friends they had assumed had been
killed in the war. With enormous trepidation, they eventually decide to leave
the relative safety of Guinea and go back across the border to confront the
unknown in their homeland, where an uneasy peace has been reached.

Two more screenings of the film on June 22 will be accompanied by a discussion
and appearances by the band.

''Rain in a Dry Land,'' written and directed by Anne Makepeace, is a fascinating
companion to ''The Refugee All Stars'' because it illustrates the cultural chasm
between Africa and America. The movie follows the amazing journey of two Somali
Bantu families from a refugee camp in Kenya to the United States under the
sponsorship of two different relief organizations.

One settles in Atlanta, the other in Springfield, Mass. As they learn the basics
of life in the industrialized West (they have to be taught to walk up and down
stairs), individual personalities emerge. The particular strength of this film
is its intimacy, its insistence on portraying immigrants, too often lumped
together by documentaries as a huddled mass of suffering, as complicated,
high-strung people negotiating the personal boundaries between their traditions
and Western modernity.

In the Spanish documentary ''Switch Off,'' the indigenous Pehuenche-Mapuche
people of the Chilean Andes protest their displacement when a hydroelectric
project built by the Spanish energy company Endesa floods their legally
protected land in the Ralco Valley. This film shows a classic confrontation
between the weak and strong in which the strong, the impersonal forces of
globalization, will not be stopped.

Underlying this year's Human Rights Watch festival is the groundswell of
opposition to the war in Iraq, examined directly from three different
perspectives and indirectly in several other films. The unspoken parallels
between Iraq and Vietnam and the antiwar movements then and now are illustrated
by ''The Camden 28,'' a poignant documentary recalling the all-but-forgotten
trial of 28 Vietnam War opponents, mostly members of the Catholic Left, who were
prosecuted for breaking into a draft board office in August 1971. Thirty-five
years later, the participants, who were acquitted of any crime, proudly recall
their accomplishment.

Michael Winterbottom and Mat Whitecross's already famous docudrama, ''The Road
to Guantanamo'' (it opens in New York on June 23), dramatizes the ordeal of four
Pakistani-British who, traveling to Pakistan via Afghanistan to attend a
wedding, found themselves in the wrong place at the wrong time. They were
rounded up as suspected terrorists, and three of the four were eventually
shipped to Guantanamo Bay, where they were held for nearly two years without
charges. (The whereabouts of the fourth is not known.)

If the graphic depiction of their stomach-turning experiences of abuse and
humiliation makes no pretense to objectivity, the film remains a devastating
indictment of where the relaxing of safeguards against the inhumane treatment of
prisoners may have taken us.

James Longley's ''Iraq in Fragments,'' which already won three awards at the
Sundance Film Festival and was shown at the Tribeca Film Festival, observes
ordinary Iraqi citizens in three regions: Baghdad, the Shiite south and the
Kurdish north. Only the Kurds, grateful for being freed from the tyranny of
Saddam Hussein, speak kindly of the American presence. The cumulative portrait
is of a country relentlessly pulled apart by ethnic and religious differences.

Finally, ''Winter in Baghdad,'' a Spanish documentary filmed in the winter of
2004 and having its New York premiere, offers a ground-level view of ordinary
Iraqis, including a group of resourceful teenagers, surviving however they can
in the war-torn capital city. If the film is not overtly polemic, like almost
every documentary that examines the ravages of war on the people living through
it, its infinitely sad portrait of waste, destruction and suffering speaks for
itself.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: An image from ''The Refugee All Stars,'' about musicians who
fled war. (Photo by Film Society of Lincoln Center)(pg. E1)
 From ''Rain in a Dry Land,'' about Somali Bantu families in America. (Photo by
Film Society of Lincoln Center)(pg. E2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company


                              582 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                              May 28, 2006 Sunday
                                   2 Edition

Darfur isn't too far to care for this crowd

BYLINE: EMILY NIPPS

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 264 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


About 75 students, professors and other attendees got together Saturday for a
think tank luncheon on the humanitarian crisis in Sudan in the University of
South Florida's TECO Room.

The event was organized by the United Nations' Association of the United States
of America.

Members of the audience listened to panelists speak out against the genocidal
practices and other human rights violations committed in Darfur, a region in
western Sudan.

They watched video clips of starving men, women, children and animals living
among tattered huts in refugee camps. They asked questions about the region and
the Sudanese government. They got answers from Sudanese refugees who live in New
Port Richey.

"I would say most Americans don't really know where Sudan is," said Hal Hann, a
UNA-USA member and Sun City Center retiree at the luncheon.

And that's part of the problem, said Linda Ruescher of the Tampa Bay Refugee
Task Force, who helps Sudanese refugees adapt to American life.

"We get these little clips and sound bites, instead of a real person," she said.
"I think we get bombarded with so many things, it's not real."

Perhaps the most significant panelist was Yahya Osman, secretary general of the
Darfur Rehabilitation Project, who is flying to Africa today to meet with
Sudanese government officials and rebel army leaders.

He urged the audience to write to local and national government officials and to
withdraw financial support from international corporations that do business with
Sudan, including dumping their shares.

Emily Nipps can be reached at (813) 269-5313 or nipps@sptimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              583 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                              May 28, 2006 Sunday
                                   3 Edition

Darfur crisis seems so distant

BYLINE: EMILY NIPPS

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 563 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


Getting people in Tampa Bay to care about violence in Sudan takes more than a
think tank luncheon in the University of South Florida's small TECO Room.

But even the 75 or so students, professors and other attendees at the Saturday
meeting might make a small difference, or at least that was the hope of the
event's organizers, the United Nations' Association of the United States of
America.

While members of the audience sipped iced tea and ate chicken and rice pilaf,
they listened to panelists speak out against the genocidal practices and other
human rights violations committed in Darfur, a region in western Sudan.

They watched video clips of starving men, women, children and animals living
among tattered huts in refugee camps. They asked questions about the region and
the Sudanese government. They got answers from Sudanese refugees (commonly known
as the Lost Boys of Sudan) who live in New Port Richey.

"I would say most Americans don't really know where Sudan is," said Hal Hann, a
UNA-USA member and Sun City Center retiree who attended the luncheon.

And that's part of the problem, said Linda Ruescher of the Tampa Bay Refugee
Task Force, who helps Sudanese refugees adapt to American life in the Tampa Bay
area.

"We get these little clips and sound bites, instead of a real person," she said.
"I think we get bombarded with so many things, it's not real."

Many Sudanese refugees live in the Tampa Bay area, including several in New Port
Richey. But even those living in the United States have a hard time getting
Americans to understand their stories because of language and cultural
differences.

When asked about the home and family he left behind in southern Sudan, refugee
John Deng focused more on explaining the history and politics of the Darfur
conflict rather his own plight. The four tall, lean Sudanese refugees at the
meeting were friendly and chatty with audience members afterward but seemed to
have a hard time revealing personal information, and some even struggled with
giving their ages.

"It's because they don't know you," Ruescher said, adding that many of the Lost
Boys don't know their ages (the four men were estimated to be in their 20s).
They were among the 17,000 children who fled Sudan in the late 1980s and
survived in the wild before landing in a refugee camp in Kenya. Many of those
who eventually came to the United States were issued ages and the same birthday
- Jan. 1.

Perhaps the most significant panelist was Yahya Osman, secretary general of the
Darfur Rehabilitation Project, who is flying to Africa today to meet with
Sudanese government officials and rebel army leaders to propose changes to a
recent unsuccessful peace agreement. A successful agreement would put an end to
three years of fighting among the Arab-dominated government and non-Arab rebel
groups and what is estimated to be as many as 450,000 civilian deaths.

"Your effort is needed to open eyes to what the Sudanese government is doing ...
and the millions of lives that are being killed," Osman said. He urged the
audience to write to local and national government officials. He also stressed
the importance of withdrawing financial support from and dumping shares of
international corporations that do business with Sudan.

You can learn more by visiting www.darfurrehab.com or www.sudandivestment.com.

Emily Nipps can be reached at (813) 269-5313 or nipps@sptimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              584 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                             May 27, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL Edition

Somali refugees in Kenya: The forgotten crisis;
The United States could do more to ease the suffering of those displaced by a
civil war.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Our View; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 831 words


The brutal tragedy unfolding in western Sudan's Darfur region has dominated
reports on humanitarian issues this year, as it should.

The United States' belated entry into talks aimed at stopping the genocide and
aiding the dispossessed Fur people who are now refugees in Chad is welcome. It
can only help turn needed international attention to this unfolding disaster.

But the U.S. aid community must not forget another crisis that has festered in
the Horn of Africa for more than a decade: the plight of hundreds of thousands
of Somali refugees exiled to eastern Kenya.

The outbreak of civil war 14 years ago and subsequent lawlessness sent many
Somalis fleeing across the Kenyan border, where more than 140,000 still remain
in three camps spread across 20 square miles of parched, thorny scrubland near
the town of Dadaab. There they are prey to roving bandits, local hostility,
corrupt aid workers and an implacable drought.

COLLAPSE OF ORDER

Chaos has ruled Somalia since the overthrow of the central government in 1991
and the resulting division of the country by clan warlords. The United States'
first attempt to re-establish order in the country that formerly hosted Osama
bin Laden abruptly ended when militia downed a Black Hawk helicopter in an
infamous military setback during the early years of the Clinton administration.

Now, America's attention is again focused on Somalia, but not on the defacto
Somalian exiles in Kenya. This week, the Somali capital of Mogadishu was
engulfed in the worst fighting since 1991.

The prolonged power vacuum has given rise to conditions that mirror Afghanistan
under the Taliban. In some regions, a war-weary populace has embraced
fundamentalists who offer the promise of order.

Meanwhile, Somalia's latest interim government, its 14th, lacks the authority to
rule. Its leaders are not even strong enough to move from their base in the
southern city of Baidoa to Mogadishu.

The United States is again trying to intervene in the fractured political
landscape by funding the struggling government and allied warlord factions who
have promised to fight terrorists. Observers say that may have laid the
groundwork for this latest surge of violence. Against this backdrop, the
refugees displaced by the civil war during President George H.W. Bush's
administration have largely been forgotten.

Among the major threats to refugees are repeated attacks by bandits and a
sustained campaign of rape against women. The refugees are largely comprised of
certain clans, including the Galje el, Hawiye and Dir people, who represent a
kind of ethnic underclass. At the top of the pecking order sits the Darod clan,
who control many of the levers of power in the Somali-Kenyan borderlands.

WOMEN ARE TARGETED

This institutionalized prejudice has also led to a campaign of rape. Within clan
society, women are responsible for domestic chores like collecting firewood and
drawing water. These tasks take them far from camp, where they are defenseless
against attack. Most rapes go unprosecuted, leaving their victims to suffer
untreated physical and psychological complications along with the cultural
stigma that accompanies rape in much of Africa.

Bandits also attack refugees in their camps at night. Raiding parties steal
cattle, the main form of individual wealth.

Compounding matters, say Somalis like Abi Kadir Noor and Hamza Haadoon, who now
live in Portland, many U.N. officials are drawn from the Darod clan, a rival
people that are among the Galje el's persecutors. Former refugees in Portland
claim the Darod working for the United Nations often sell the aid meant for the
Galje el for personal profit.

The clan's prospects for repatriation are slim: The Darod now inhabit their
former homeland. Integration among local Kenyans, who scorn the refugees, is
also unrealistic.

The refugees' best hope is for international authorities to resettle them to
other countries.

AN UNENDING ORDEAL

The African continent has witnessed a seemingly endless string of population
displacements, famines and mass killings. Many fear "crisis fatigue" will
exhaust the reserves of international humanitarian goodwill and ultimately deny
Somali refugees in Kenya a chance for peace in a land they can call home.

The Somali crisis has touched Portland, too, and not just in the worried faces
of former refugees concerned about friends, families and relatives half a world
away. The same clan tensions that suffuse the Kenya-Somali borderland express
themselves here.

The Darod were among the first wave of Somali immigrants to the United States.
Now, newly arriving members of other clans increasingly find they have to combat
the old clan prejudices in their new home.

While the United States ferrets out terrorists in Somalia's north, it can't
ignore the suffering of refugees trapped in a Kenyan exile. America may not be
able to provide the troops needed to bring justice to refugees, but officials
can supply the logistical and financial support needed to help ease their long
suffering.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo by Abi Kadir Noor
The search forwater leaves refugees in the Ifo camp, shown in this February 2006
photo from Kenya, vulnerable to attacks by bandits.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              585 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                              May 16, 2006 Tuesday

Refugees rich -- in gratitude

BYLINE: Doug Robinson Deseret Morning News

LENGTH: 685 words


"Oh, Amy, America, America; it's hard, but, oh, it is worth it for the peace of
mind. My children can run and play." -- Saran, Salt Lake refugee

SOUTH SALT LAKE -- Down at the South Park Apartments, which is located by the
railroad tracks, somewhere between nowhere and somewhere, the people don't have
much, except their lives, and that is enough for now.

They are mostly refugees, people who have fled Eastern Europe, Africa, Asia and
the Middle East to escape civil war and "ethnic cleansing." They all have a
story that could fill a Hollywood blockbuster.

Amy Wylie knows their stories. She knows all of the residents as if they were
uncles and cousins. Called by her church to be a service missionary, this
kindly, middle-aged mother of three is a mentor and friend to these refugees.
She is here almost daily to help refugees navigate America and its morass of
work permits, laws, welfare, doctor visits, school, jobs.

This morning, she stops first at the apartment of Zeinab, a tiny woman who
speaks no English. Her husband was born in Afghanistan, she in Lebanon and her
children in Syria. They were on the run until coming here seven years ago. When
she sees Amy, she rushes out the door to greet her. "They're always glad to see
me," says Amy. Zeinab searches her purse and pulls out her Utah I.D., which she
shows to Amy, beaming.

"Oh, you got your I.D.!" and they exchange a hug for this simple victory.

Amy walks to another apartment where she finds Esther, a Liberian refugee who
fled to a camp in Guinea. Amy calls each of the children by name, all nine of
them. They rush to greet her at the door, wrapping tiny arms around her leg.

"We love them and so they love us," says Amy.

The carpet is dirty, the ceiling is cracked, the door handle is missing, the
stove and toilet don't always work, but Esther says, "I'm glad to be here."

They lived in a refugee camp for 14 years waiting for asylum.

As she walks toward another apartment, Amy is talking about how badly more
mentors are needed. She is not wealthy. She does not write checks for these
people. She gives them time and energy. "I can't imagine life without it," she
says. "We waste so much time. This gives it meaning. We're needed."

The level of commitment is up to the mentor. For her part, Amy invites the
families to her home occasionally. In summer, they lounge on the lawn chairs in
her yard as if it were a great luxury.

"It's like going to a nice resort for them," she says, her eyes welling with
tears.

She stops by another apartment belonging to Saran and Joseph.

She was an accountant in Sierra Leone, he an economist. When civil war broke
out, they were kidnapped by rebels and separated for almost a year. She bore
their first child in a rebel camp. They were reunited and had another child.
Then Joseph went to get work one day and didn't come home for three years. Saran
gave birth to their third child in a camp in Ghana. When Saran and the children
were granted asylum, they moved to America without Joseph. For more than a year
she waited for him, never giving up hope he was alive, and finally he surfaced
in Africa.

Amy sent out a mass e-mail soliciting help. An anonymous donor paid Joseph's
passage to America. Amy watched the reunion at Salt Lake City International,
where Joseph met his third child for the first time, taking her face in his
hands and staring into her eyes.

Joseph and Saran are articulate, educated and hard-working.

Amy likes their chances of succeeding in the United States. They tend neighbor
kids during the day; she attends night school to study accounting.

They plan to open a day-care center, but they need donations. They are grateful
people. When a modest couch was presented to them, Saran protested, "It's too
good for us."

Gratefulness is the currency of these people, Amy's payback.

One young man called her one day simply to say, "Thank you for loving me."

"People ask if these people want a lot," says Amy. "They just want love." And
out of love comes her service. "Every single day I'm here, my life is better,"
she says. Doug Robinson's column runs on Tuesday. Please send e-mail to
drob@desnews.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                              586 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         The Chronicle of Philanthropy

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday

Clowning Around for Charity

BYLINE: Nicole Wallace

SECTION: GIVING; Pg. 6 Vol. 18 No. 12

LENGTH: 247 words


Refugee camps for people who have fled civil wars, orphanages for children who
have lost parents to AIDS, and shelters for survivors of natural disasters are
notfun places to be. But one charity hopes that a little clowning around   and
maybe even some juggling   can lighten the atmosphere and provide a sense of
normalcy, if only temporarily.

Clowns Without Borders was born after members of a Spanish circus troupe
performed shows in refugee camps in Croatia and Bosnia in 1993 during the ethnic
conflicts that raged in that region. Now, Clowns Without Borders also has
affiliates in Belgium, Canada, France, Sweden, and the United States.

"Humor has always been present in crisis situations," says Moshe Cohen, who
directs Clowns Without Borders-USA, in San Francisco. "It's a great way of
letting the lid off the pressure cooker."

Volunteers organized by the American branch have performed for children in South
Africa who have lost their parents to AIDS, residents of villages in Guatemala
devastated by mud slides, and survivors of Hurricane Katrina.

In addition to putting on shows, volunteers often hold workshops to teach circus
skills, such as clowning, juggling, or stilt walking, to children, teachers, and
local performers.

Each of the six national groups operates independently. Mr. Cohen says that
performers who volunteer for the American branch typically raise money for their
trips through house parties and benefit shows, a total of between $20,000 and
$30,000 a year.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 The Chronicle of Philanthropy
                              All Rights Reserved


                              587 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                             March 26, 2006 Sunday

Refugee family remembered

BYLINE: CRAIG REBER

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. a1

LENGTH: 495 words

DATELINE: PLATTEVILLE, Wis.


Platteville, a southwest Wisconsin community of 10,000, is far removed from
Rwanda - an east-central African nation that was engulfed in genocide in the
mid-1990s.

But for numerous Rwandas, Platteville has played a major role in helping the
transition from their war-torn country to American culture.

Consolee Mujawabera, a Rwandan woman who fled to the United States, arrived in
Platteville in May 1997 with three of her sons - Emmanuel, Adolphe and Francois
- and daughter Ephigenie. Another son, Aphlodis, who hadn't seen his family in
six years, was reunited in May of 2000. The reunion capped a remarkable odyssey.
It also offered an insight into the city's character.

The family has since moved to Dayton, Ohio, where a number of Rwandans have
settled - however, family members are still remembered.

"The family was very friendly and the boys were very curious, wanting to learn
as much as they could," said Steve Chandler, who helped the family's
assimilation into the community.

Assimilation included education in the city's public school system. Mary
Hardyman, a Platteville Public School teacher, remembered Emmanuel, then 16, the
oldest of the boys.

"He didn't speak anything other than 'hi,'" Hardyman said, adding the boy did
know how to count to 10 in English.

Hardyman began with the basics, and used French, which Emmanuel knew, and worked
from there - including the use of her daughter's beginning reading book.

Hardyman called Emmanuel an "amazing" child who learned quickly. He was also
tutored by a Platteville student.

"The (school) kids really accepted the family quickly," Hardyman said. "They
were so excited to help them learn. They loved to learn."

It ignited a process in the school system designed to address the needs of
similar students. The Platteville School District added an
English-as-a-second-language instruction that supports both teachers and
students.

"Sometimes it wouldn't be just Rwanda, it could be students who have been
adopted from Russia or Hispanics," said Barbara Daus, a Platteville School Board
member.

It has evolved into teachers developing a variety of flexible strategies to
teach English. And, Daus adds, each situation is different.

The University of Wisconsin-Platteville, where Daus serves as special assistant
to the chancellor, offers instruction in English as a second language. The
curriculum prepares students to teach English to non-native English speakers.

"The skills, the knowledge and the ability to assist in the learning
environment," Daus said.

The UW-P also provided Consolee employment in its food service department. It
was one of several institutions, organizations and individuals that assisted the
family. For example, Chandler ensured the family had housing, garbage collection
and a proper mailing address.

Chandler believes a community assistance net is securely in place for families
in similar situations.

"Area churches and groups are willing to help out anybody in need," he said.
"Things worked out well."

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mug - Consolee Mujawabera

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              588 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                Intelligencer Journal (Lancaster, Pennsylvania)

                          February 8, 2006, Wednesday

'The Lost Boys' film will be show Feb. 19

SECTION: M; Pg. 05

LENGTH: 114  words


A screening of "The Lost Boys" is planned Feb. 19 at 11:30 a.m. at Unitarian
Universalist Church of Lancaster, 538 W. Chestnut St. The church social action
committee invites the public to the free viewing. The documentary follows two
Sudanese refugees on an extraordinary journey from Africa to America. Orphaned
as young boys in one of Africa's cruelest civil wars, they lived much of their
childhood in a Kenyan refugee camp. Safe at last from physical danger and
hunger, a world away from home, they find themselves confronted with the
abundance and alienation of contemporary America. Information not covered in the
film will discussed by a "lost boy" now living in Lancaster County.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Lancaster Newspapers, Inc.


                              589 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                    Variety

                      February 6, 2006 - February 12, 2006

GOD GREW TIRED OF US

BYLINE: JOHN ANDERSON

SECTION: FILM REVIEWS; Pg. 92

LENGTH: 519 words


(DOCU)
  A Lost Boys of Sudan presentation. Produced by Christopher Quinn, Molly
Bradford Pace. Executive producers, Brad Pitt, Adam Schlesinger, Jack
Schneider. Co-producers, Eric Gilliland, Dermot Mulroney.
  Directed by Christopher Quinn. Camera (color, HD), Paul Daley; editor,
Geoffrey Richman; music, Mark McAdam, Mark Nelson, Jamie Staff. Reviewed at
Sundance Film Festival (competing), Jan. 25, 2006. Running time: 86 MIN.
  With: John Bul Dau, Panther Bior, Daniel Abul Pach.

   The male refugees of war torn east Africa were the subject of 2003's "The
Lost Boys of Sudan" and are revisited --- thankfully ---  in "God Grew Tired of
Us," Christopher Quinn's  portrait of three young Sudanese men and their
adjustment to life in the United States. Although shot over a longer period of
time than "Lost Boys,"  "God Grew Tired" is a softer, less complex version of
essentially the same story, far less troubling in its explorations and
implications than "The Lost Boys," but with far greater commercial potential.
  Any theatrical success will be aided to no small extent by the three
haltingly eloquent, charming young Africans at the center of Quinn's
four-years-in-the-making documentary. John Bul Dau, Panther Bior and Daniel
Abul Pach, along with thousands of their "brothers," crossed hostile African
terrain in an effort to escape death, slavery and the memories of their
families' murders and destruction.
  Many of the refugees died. The remainder had to make do in the Kenyan refugee
camp at Kakuma, where they are shown erecting a makeshift society while waiting
to have their futures decided.
  Quinn's is a gorgeous looking film, briskly paced and well-edited, perhaps
too well-edited. It doesn't give one a sense of spontaneous difficulty or of
the harsh realities these men must have faced, moving uneasily into mainstream
America.
  Once they are dispatched to various cities in the United States, the
similarities to "Lost Boys" grow closer and closer, and some of this is perhaps
unavoidable: Introducing rustic Africans to the workings of a Pittsburgh
apartment (which is very funny, but we've seen it), or American social
arrangements ("Only one wife," one boy says in bewilderment), or the mysteries
of the corporate logo ("In our country, we call this Coca-Cola," another says,
pointing to a bottle of Pepsi) are  endearing exercises.
  What we don't get is a sense of what it's really like being black Africans in
suspicious white enclaves, even if Quinn reports on some instances of
overreaction on the part of the whites, and the occasional meltdown among their
new neighbors.
  The most complex moment in the movie is the reunion, after many years, of Dau
and his mother. A towering, take-charge figure, Dau greets his mother with open
arms, while the woman emits a high-pitched, traditional keening cry of joy and
gratitude, collapsing in the middle of a runway --- while Dau looks at her with
a mixture of love and embarrassment.
  It's a conflicted moment for everyone, including the audience, and one of the
few where one gets a true sense of just how bizarre it is being a lost boy.


LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Reed Elsevier Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              590 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                                January 1, 2006

Review: CRITICS: FILM OF THE WEEK: How to find a way out of Africa: Radu
Mihaileanu's tale of an Ethiopian boy seeking survival by pretending to be
Jewish is brave and full of suspense

BYLINE: PHILIP FRENCH

SECTION: OBSERVER REVIEW PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 732 words


LIVE AND BECOME (140 mins, 12A) Directed by Radu Mihaileanu; starring Yael
Abecassis, Roschdy Zem, Sirak M Sabahat.

THERE are several movies in which Jews pose as Gentiles, most especially those
concerned with the Second World War. In Gentleman's Agreement (1947), liberal
reporter Gregory Peck pretends to be a Jew as a means of exposing anti-semitism
in postwar America. In cynical form, the arms dealer played by Nicolas Cage
enters America with his family pretending they are Ukrainian Jews and
immediately signs up with New York's Russian Mafia in Lord of War (2005). Most
painfully in Louis Malle's semi-autobiographical Au Revoir, les Enfants (1987),
Jewish teenagers in Nazi-occupied France are concealed as pupils of a Roman
Catholic boarding school and are accidentally betrayed to the Gestapo.

Radu Mihaileanu, a Jewish film-maker who fled his oppressive native Romania via
Israel in 1980 to work in France, draws on his complicated emotional history
(his communist father changed the family name to obscure the provocative racial
affiliation) in taking the deception in the other direction. The central
character of Live and Become passes himself off as a Jew or, rather, is
propelled by his Ethiopian mother into 20 painful years as an impostor.

The movie begins in 1985 when Mossad, with considerable assistance from the
United States, ran the clandestine Operation Moses to airlift thousands of
starved and persecuted Ethiopian Jews to Israel from refugee camps across the
border in Sudan. These dark-skinned 'indelible immigrants', to use a term coined
by historian Daniel Boorstin, known as the Falasha, are still not fully
assimilated into Israeli society. The nine-year-old hero and his widowed
Christian mother, last survivors of a family destroyed by famine and war, are at
the same camp. When the small son of a Falasha widow dies shortly after being
accepted for transportation, she agrees to take the Gentile boy in his place and
she gives him the name Solomon, or Schlomo.

His mother bids the terrified lad farewell with the words that gives the film
its title: 'Go. Live. Become.' 'Go' is the urgent instruction to find security
in Israel. 'Live' is her counsel to seize a sudden chance to survive and
prosper. 'Become' is more problematic, and the movie is constantly alert to what
it means in a world of emigration and immigration, asylum seeking and economic
migration, where identities are assumed, imposed, blurred and recreated.

The opening section is full of suspense and danger. Can Schlomo convince the
Israeli authorities that he's a Jew? Immediately before his interrogation on
Israeli soil, a boy a few years older has his cover blown and is roughly
escorted from the reception hall, shoved into a car and driven away to be
repatriated. Schlomo gets by, but his ailing surrogate mother dies. A Dickensian
episode follows in which, burdened by guilt and loneliness, he fails to adapt to
life in various orphanages. Finally, he's adopted by a kindly Sephardic
Franco-Israeli couple, extremely well played by French actor Roschdy Zem and
celebrated Israeli actress Yael Abecassis.

These foster-parents, left-wing, semi-secular Jews who initially think the
newcomer has been raised in the orthodox faith, draw the boy out and encourage
their son and daughter to make him welcome. They represent much of what is best
in the state of Israel and protect him from the prejudice, some of it truly
ferocious, to which the Falasha are exposed. These sequences are subtly handled,
with moral force and without sentimentality.

The years pass, Schlomo takes on a new identity, has a Romeo and Juliet -style
love affair with a Jewish girl, works on a kibbutz, experiences the tensions
engendered by the Gulf War and the intifadas and, as part of his journey of
discovery, attempts to contact his mother. At times, melodrama looms and the
film becomes schematic. The years Schlomo spends studying medicine in Paris,
when he becomes aware of how he might transcend his problems and give practical
assistance to his native Ethiopia, are condensed into a couple of minutes with
voice-over dialogue.

Still, Mihaileanu never lets us lose sight of Schlomo's guilt and inner turmoil
as his life becomes a search for healing, redemption and a fully achieved sense
of self. Brave, moving and compassionate, Live and Become deals boldly, yet
sensitively, with issues crucial to our times.


LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              591 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           Pittsburgh Tribune Review

                            November 25, 2005 Friday

Refugees reborn in Pittsburgh

BYLINE: Andrew Conte

LENGTH: 810 words


Every day is a blessing for Bare Bule.

More than a decade ago, he ran away from his home in Somalia by walking for 15
days to a refugee camp in bordering Kenya. For food and water, he stripped
leaves from trees and eagerly lapped from muddy puddles of rainwater.

Trapped in the refugee camp, he lived there about a dozen years, meeting his
wife, marrying her and having five children -- two boys and three girls. But
like his home in Somalia, where government soldiers killed his mother, father
and brother, the camp never seemed safe enough.

The glare of ethnic hatred has been no more than a bitter memory for the past
year. Bule and his family were allowed into the United States last year, and
Catholic Charities of the Diocese of Pittsburgh helped them move to the city
along with 30 other Somali Bantu families.

Bule, 42, now lives with his wife and children in a narrow rowhouse along an
alley in Lawrenceville. He has a job turning license plates into handbags at a
Hill District factory. His wife is expecting their sixth child, a boy, in about
two weeks.

Life remains far from perfect for Bule and the other Somali refugees as they
struggle to find jobs and decent homes. But their arrival in Pittsburgh has
given them hope.

"I like America, first of all, because it is free and everybody helps you," Bule
said through a translator. "You see new people, and they say, 'Welcome to
America.' "

Catholic Charities moved 184 Somali Bantus to Pittsburgh over a period of 18
months, starting in February 2004. It's part of an effort that has helped about
11,000 Somali Bantu refugees relocate throughout the United States.

The Bantus are Africans without a nation. They descended from slaves taken to
Somalia from Tanzania and Mozambique in the late 19th century, and became
targets for attack when Somalia disintegrated into civil war in 1991.

The Bantus fled the war by the thousands, walking hundreds of miles to refugee
camps in Kenya.

Pittsburgh has not received Somali Bantu immigrants since September, since the
need for refuge has shifted to Meskhetian Turks fleeing Russia. Catholic
Charities has helped more than 10,000 refugees settle in Western Pennsylvania
over three decades, accepting people from Asia, Africa and Eastern Europe.

"Our goal is self-sufficiency as quickly as possible," said John Miller,
director of Catholic Charities' Refugee Services Program. "We don't have an
approach of letting them sit at home and get used to it. We encourage a fast
assimilation into American life."

Although scattered between Lawrenceville and the North Side, the Somali Bantus
have created a community. They elected a president, vice president and elders.

While they do not expect any new immigrants now, their numbers are growing.
About a dozen Somali Bantu babies have been born in Pittsburgh, and the group
expects to hold its first wedding next month.

Catholic Charities claims about 90 percent of the Somali Bantu men are working
but several said they recently had been laid off. Others -- both men and women
-- have found jobs working together in groups.

Six men work at Little Earth Productions' factory in the Uptown section of the
Hill District, mainly turning recycled license plates into handbags and purses.
They joined a work force that already included refugees from Bosnia, Vietnam and
other places.

"A lot of people who are refugees have a good work ethic," said Ava DeMarco,
owner and co-founder. "It works out well for us because we get great workers and
it provides them with the opportunity to have a job in this country with people
from their country."

Another 15 Somali Bantus work at CleanCare, a laundry for hospital and
hospitality linens, in Lawrenceville and the North Side. Susan Yakim, the
director of human resources, hired one Somali Bantu woman who knocked on the
door looking for work. She ended up hiring others as positions became available,
and now they make up almost 10 percent of the work force.

"They've been a really good addition to our little home," Yakim said.

The Somali Bantu women have been teaching her phrases in their language, and
she's helping them adjust to life in the United States.

"We've started Americanizing them," she said. "They know what a high-five is
now."

Other than getting a day off from work, the Somali Bantus said they didn't plan
any special gathering for Thanksgiving. As Muslims, they recently celebrated
Ramadan, a monthlong period of daylight fasting and small evening dinners.

Yet, they are eager students of another holiday tradition -- American football.

Osman Mohamed, 26, said he has been to one Steelers game at Heinz Field, and he
watches the other games on television.

"Everybody from Africa, if he supports ball, he supports soccer," Mohamed said.
"Now I try to support the Steelers because this is my city now, you know. I'm
supporting my Steelers."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2005 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              592 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                            October 16, 2005 Sunday

'Exodus' in black and white: wrenching photos of displaced world citizens on
display at Library Square

BYLINE: Dave Gagon Deseret Morning News

LENGTH: 863 words


BETWEEN APRIL 6 and July 16 of 1994, a genocide of unprecedented fury and
swiftness washed over the African nation of Rwanda. When it was over, more than
800,000 Tutsis and moderate Hutus had been butchered, another 2 million had fled
the country, and another million were displaced.

The world witnessed these 100 days of depravity through newspaper and magazine
reports and TV news: it was horrific and often unbearable to view, and we
wondered at the time, what will happen to the exiles?

Today, the question remains, but is more encompassing; what becomes of all the
displaced refugees throughout the world, devastated by not only war, but by
famine, natural disasters and the widening gap between the rich and poor?

One of the more poignant answers to this query is "Exodus," a visually stunning,
emotionally charged exhibit by international photographer Sebastiao Salgado, on
display through Dec. 17 at The Leonardo at Library Square.

Presented by the Center for Documentary Arts, Salgado's inspiring
black-and-white photographs chronicle the global movement of populations at the
turn of the millennium.

Beginning in 1993, and continuing for the next six years, he worked among
migrants, refugees and exiles across 40 countries in Africa, the Americas,
Europe and Asia. He documented their places of origin, the circumstances of
their flight and their uncertain destinations and destinies.

"Exodus," according to the exhibition essay, "is a reflection on the global
phenomena that has broken down borders, created slums and refugee camps, and
produced conflicts over employment and civil rights around the globe."

Born in 1944 in Aimores, Minas Gerais, Brazil, Salgado studied economics in his
country and the United States. In 1971, he earned a Ph.D. in economics at the
University of Paris. However, in 1973 -- after borrowing his wife's camera -- he
traveled to Africa. The result of this photographic journey was Salgado changed
careers: He became a photojournalist and today is known for his peerless images
of man and his relationship to himself and the land.

Assembled and curated by his wife, Lelia Wanick Salgado, "Exodus" features 300
black-and-white photographs divided into five sections:

-- Migrants and Refugees: The Survival Instinct

-- The African Tragedy: A Continent Adrift

-- Latin America: Rural Exodus, Urban Disorder

-- Asia: The World's New Urban Face

-- The Children: 40 portraits of migrant, refugee and displaced children under
the age of 15 from around the world.

In addition to detailing the aftermath of the Rwanda apocalypse, Salgado's
exhibit tackles the displaced hordes in Angola who camp out near railroad
tracks, in movie theaters, schools or museums, as well as the thousands of
Mozambique exiles living in Tanzania.

"Exodus" also grapples with the Brazilian dilemma of five million rural workers
unable to acquire land to work, and poverty-stricken Mexicans displaced by
Zapatistas.

In the "Migrants and Refugees" section, Salgado starkly depicts the demise of
Kabul, Afghanistan, since the Soviets abandoned the country in the late 1980s.
Each armed faction that has conquered the city has provoked an exodus, and the
images graphically portray just how little is left.

The same section includes a series of photographs of the Vietnamese boat people.
Some 800,000 fled the country and Communist rule, only to wind up in permanent
detention centers in some other Asian country.

During the "Exodus" project in 1994 in Mozambique, Africa, children would
surround Salgado as he worked, hoping to have their picture taken one more time.
According to photographer Kent Miles, exhibit project director, Salgado would
"promise the children if they would line up and wait, he would take their
photograph later."

Eventually Salgado discovered he had so many good portraits of children they
deserved their own section in the show.

As the last segment in the exhibit, "The Children" is a compelling selection of
40 portraits, each with the ability to effect emotion. According to the
photographer, the children look "beautiful, happy, proud, pensive or sad."

The artistry throughout the exhibit is superb, and even though Salgado is
claimed to have been more interested in the message, each photograph is an
extraordinary example of lighting and composition.

Salgado created "Exodus" in the hopes that "as individuals, as groups, as
societies, we can pause and reflect on the human condition at the turn of the
millennium. In its rawest form individualism remains a prescription for
catastrophe. We have to create a new regimen of co-existence."

"Exodus" succeeds on every level, and the Center for Documentary Arts deserves
praise for spearheading the two-year effort to bring this major exhibition to
Salt Lake City. If you go . . .

What: "Exodus -- Photographs by Sebastio Salgado"

Where: The Leonardo at Library Square, 209 E. 500 South

When: Through Dec. 17

Dates/Times: Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday, 10 a.m.-6 p.m.; Wednesday, Friday, 10
a.m.-9 p.m.; Sunday, 1-5 p.m.

How much: $10 for adults; $7 for seniors, military, students, youths (12-17)

Phone: 531-9800

Web: www.theleonardo.org

Also: Not recommended for children under 12 due to mature content E-mail:
gag@desnews.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                              593 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            October 14, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Edward B. Marks, 94;
Aided World's Refugees

BYLINE: Patricia Sullivan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; B06

LENGTH: 778 words


Edward B. Marks, 94, who spent more than 50 years helping refugees of war,
disease and politics around the world find new homes, died of heart disease and
renal failure Oct. 8 at his home in Mill Valley, Calif.

Mr. Marks, an urbane and well-traveled man, worked since the 1930s on relief,
resettlement and rehabilitation of refugees on four continents. He hopscotched
around the globe with several government and nongovernmental agencies, turning
up near homeless people in postwar Europe, war-torn Africa and impoverished
Asian countries. He was an administrator who kept his staff focused on the
people who needed their help, a colleague said.

"In some ways, he was the repository of our collective conscience. He really
understood at a gut level what it meant to be a refugee," said Lavinia Limon,
president and chief executive of what is now the U.S. Committee for Refugees and
Immigrants.

Mr. Marks, a New York City native and graduate of Dartmouth College and Columbia
University, began his career as a journalist with the American Wine and Liquor
Journal. But from 1938 on, most of his attention was focused on refugees,
whether displaced by war, famine or governmental actions.

"He just had a genuine interest in people. I can't tell you how many times I
took cabs with him and he'd get into conversations with cabdrivers, ask where
they were from and usually had been to some little place in Africa or Asia,"
said stepdaughter Vivian Barad of San Francisco. "He was just interested in
people and just truly wanted the satisfaction of helping people."

After he received a master's degree in sociology from Columbia in 1938, he was
working at a magazine published by the Welfare Council of NYC. Mr. Marks
interviewed the director of the National Refugee Service for an article about
efforts to place prewar refugees in flight from Adolf Hitler and was offered a
job.

He worked there until 1942, when he joined the War Relocation Authority, the
agency responsible for resettlement of Japanese Americans who had been forced
from their homes on the West Coast by the federal government during World War
II. He worked briefly on public housing and veterans housing after the war
ended, then joined the U.N. International Refugee Organization.

Sent to Athens in 1950, Mr. Marks found thousands of refugees from Romania,
Bulgaria, Albania and Yugoslavia fleeing their homes in search of asylum. He
developed a way to register, examine and prepare refugees for immigration
interviews with representatives of Australia, Canada, Brazil, New Zealand and
the United States.

Mr. Marks stayed on in Greece with the International Organization for Migration
and, in late 1953, returned to the United States to open a New York office,
which was needed to help receive more than 100,000 European refugees preparing
to immigrate. In 1957, Mr. Marks was sent to Yugoslavia to help resettle more
than 20,000 Hungarian refugees.

He took a leave of absence in 1958 to become the first executive director of the
U.S. Committee for Refugees, established to coordinate the efforts of U.S.
agencies on behalf of refugees during the U.N. World Refugee Year.

Mr. Marks joined the Agency for International Development's Africa bureau in
1962 and served in Lagos, Nigeria, during that nation's civil war with Biafra.
He worked in Saigon and London and in the agency's Asia bureau, which required
him to leave his Leesburg home to travel to India, Indonesia, Thailand, South
Korea, the Philippines and Bangladesh.

In 1976, Mr. Marks received the agency's first Distinguished Career Award.

He also worked for UNICEF and became deputy director of the secretariat for the
1979 U.N. International Year of the Child. He was interim president of the U.S.
Committee for UNICEF in 1985, then was elected to the committee's board of
directors.

Throughout his life, he wrote freelance articles for magazines, including the
New Yorker and Playboy. In retirement, he wrote two books about U.N. art and
poster collections and a memoir, "Still Counting: Achievements and Follies of a
Nonagenarian" (2004). With a grant from the National Endowment for the Arts, he
produced a radio show that celebrated the American comic song and was broadcast
in the Boston area in the 1990s.

Mr. Marks lived in Leesburg for about 35 years.

His first wife, Margaret Laurens Marks, died in 1980. A son, Thomas Marks, died
in 2003.

Survivors include his wife of 18 years, Vera Barad Marks of Mill Valley; a
daughter from his first marriage, Katharine Marks of Santa Fe, N.M.; a second
stepdaughter, Amelia Barad Humphries of St. Helena, Calif.; a stepson, Michael
Barad of San Francisco; and eight grandsons.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


                              594 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 12, 2005
                              Correction Appended

50m environmental refugees by end of decade, UN warns: States urged to prepare
for victims of climate change: Natural disasters displace more people than wars

BYLINE: David Adam, Environment correspondent

SECTION: Guardian International Pages, Pg. 24

LENGTH: 544 words


Rising sea levels, desertification and shrinking freshwater supplies will create
up to 50 million environmental refugees by the end of the decade, experts warn
today. Janos Bogardi, director of the Institute for Environment and Human
Security at the United Nations University in Bonn, said creeping environmental
deterioration already displaced up to 10 million people a year, and the
situation would get worse.

"There are well-founded fears that the number of people fleeing untenable
environmental conditions may grow exponentially as the world experiences the
effects of climate change," Dr Bogardi said. "This new category of refugee needs
to find a place in international agreements. We need to better anticipate
support requirements, similar to those of people fleeing other unviable
situations."

The Red Cross says environmental disasters already displace more people than
war. Such people are currently not recognised under international agreements as
refugees, Dr Bogardi said, so are denied access to assistance received by
victims of violence or political persecution.

Hans van Ginkel, UN under-secretary- general and rector of the university, said:
"This is a highly complex issue, with global organisations already overwhelmed
by the demands of conventionally recognised refugees. However, we should prepare
now to define, accept and accommodate this new breed of refugee."

Environment-related migration has been most acute in sub-Saharan Africa, but
also affects millions of people in Asia and India. Europe and the US face
increased pressure from people driven from north Africa and Latin America by
deteriorating soil and water conditions.

New Zealand has already agreed to accept the 116,000 inhabitants of the
low-lying Pacific island state Tuvalu if rising sea levels swamp the country.
Elsewhere, as many as 100 million people live in areas that are below sea level
or liable to storm surge. A total of 213 communities in Alaska are threatened by
tides that creep three metres further inland each year.

Tony Oliver-Smith, a natural hazards expert at the University of Florida, said:
"Around the world vulnerability is on the increase, due to the rapid development
of megacities in coastal areas. Combine this trend with rising sea levels and
the growing number and intensity of storms and it is a recipe for a disaster,
with enormous potential to create waves of environment-driven migration."

Dr Bogardi called for an intergovernmental panel on environmental degradation to
be established to assess the situation, feed advice to politicians and
distinguish genuine environmental refugees from economic migrants. "If you see a
group of young men trying to climb over a fence, it's very difficult to say
those are environmental refugees, because, if you are an environmental refugee
you bring your whole family with you. The whole population would be on the
move."

There was also a need for international agreements on how individual states
support people who move within a country because of environmental pressures,
such as those who fled the New Orleans region after Hurricane Katrina, he added.
The statement was timed to coincide with the UN day for disaster reduction.

guardian.co.uk/climatechange >


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 17, 2005

CORRECTION: * We gave the population of the endangered island of Tuvalu as
116,000 when it is only 11,600 (50m environmental refugees by end of decade, UN
warns, page 24, October 12).

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              595 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                   October 5, 2005 Wednesday Michigan Edition

Pitch is sanctuary for war refugee

BYLINE: By MARK BRADFORD; Tribune Staff Writer

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. C3; HS SOCCER/NOTES

LENGTH: 543 words


Kelvin Zelee's role in Adams' 2-1 win over Penn last week will be just a blip on
his screen when compared to his lifelong battle just to stay alive.

A refugee from war-torn Liberia, Zelee arrived in the United States last year
and immediately found himself at home as part of the Adams soccer team. Now he
is a mainstay on the Eagles' forward line, the possessor of that elusive extra
gear and the aggressiveness to match.

"American soccer players are very talented," Zelee said. "But in Africa, it is
the most popular sport. It is almost a religion. Here, you don't take it so
seriously. Not like you take American football."

Zelee knows he is lucky and he appreciates the help from the United Nations that
brought him over here.

"I don't think my friends appreciate the freedoms they have here in America," he
said. "To the rest of the world, this is like the Garden of Eden."

Conferences wrapping up

Nearly all the conference titles have been decided in local boys and girl soccer
as the regular season ends this weekend and sectionals kick off next Monday.

On the girls side, St. Joseph's, Marian, and Penn each were 7-1 in the Northern
Indiana Conference and all three of them are in the South Bend sectional.
Assuming that no upsets occur, the Saturday matchups between St. Joe and Marian,
and Penn and Adams could give unofficial bragging rights to the conference and
sectional crown in one day.

In the Northern Lakes Conference, Concord won the crown with a 6-0-1 record
after a slow, non-conference start. Goshen and Warsaw are at 4-2-1 after tying
Monday night.

In the Northern Indiana Conference, Culver Academy's strong start was derailed
by Westview last week. Despite the loss, the Eagles were still in charge because
Argos lost to Bethany Christian.

A win Saturday over Trinity gives Culver the conference championship. A loss may
see as many as four teams tie for the title.

On the boys side, Elkhart Central won the NIC crown with a perfect 8-0 mark. But
the Blazers met second-place (7-1) St. Joseph's early in the season and the
Indians have gotten better every week.

The NLC is still up in the air, despite an excellent season by conference
leaders Concord (11-2-2, 4-1-1) and Northridge (9-2-2, 4-1-1) before Tuesday
night's games.

In the NISC, Culver Academy ran away with the title, accumulating a perfect 5-0
mark with one conference game to go. All other teams have lost at least twice.

Among the independents, the Bremen boys team has had a stellar season after a
slow start. The Lions finished the regular season at 13-3-1, including their
first-ever Blueberry tournament championship. On the girls side, the little
school of LaVille continues its winning tradition with an 11-1-1 record. Both of
these small schools may have something to say in the tournament.

Perfect no more

The last undefeated team in the area took the fall on Saturday when Westview
(8-6-0) upended the Culver Academy's girls team, 1-0.

After an 8-0 start, the Eagles are 2-1-2 in their last five games, including
ties with Plymouth and LaVille.

"I have to give my defenders and goalkeeper credit," Westview coach Cecil Miller
said. "I think Culver Academy outshot us about 15-6 but we got one to slip
through and they didn't."


LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 2005 South Bend Tribune Corporation


                              596 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                           September 8, 2005 Thursday
                                  All Editions

Hurricane opinions

SECTION: Pg. A8

LENGTH: 178 words


Amid the turmoil surrounding the effects of Hurricane Katrina, it seems
superfluous to nitpick over language. And I say this as a certified high school
English teacher.

The subtle differences in con-notation between the words "refugees" and
"evacuees" should not be a bother to anyone right now. However, it seems that
some people, both directly affected by the disaster and not, insist that "
refugee" has a political twinge to it, somewhat reminiscent of Third World
refugees fleeing their homes in Africa and the Middle East. So, we've come up
with an alternative, one that doesn't make us sound quite as poor or helpless as
those in other countries. Here in America, we're not refugees. We're evacuees.

Regardless of the perceived pejoration of the word "refugee," each word's
denotation embodies "one who seeks refuge; one who seeks a safe place." What's
more, both words are especially used for those fleeing war.

So let's not get upset over fellow Americans being called "refugees." Either
way, they are people looking for help. Let us focus on that.

Dusty Lavoie

Milford

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2005 Bangor Daily News


                              597 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The West Australian (Perth)

                            June 29, 2005 Wednesday
                                     METRO

Australia leaves door ajar for Uzbek refugees after UN appeal for help

BYLINE: CHRIS JOHNSON

SECTION: GENERAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 235  words


CANBERRA

Immigration Minister Amanda Vanstone said yesterday she would consider any
request from the United Nations for Australia to take more refugees on
humanitarian grounds.

Her comment came after calls from the UN's new High Commissioner for Refugees,
Antonio Guterres, that refugees be welcomed as victims of upheaval. In
particular, the UN wants to move hundreds of Uzbek refugees from Kyrgyzstan
camps before they can be forcibly returned to Uzbekistan.

Australia was named as one country that could take some of the 500 Uzbeks who
fled to Kyrgyzstan last month after troops fired into a crowd during an
uprising. Approaches would be made to Australia, New Zealand, the United States,
Canada and several Nordic countries to take some of the Uzbeks.

Despite Australia's tough stance on refugees, Senator Vanstone said the
Department of Immigration, Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs would consider
all requests. "Australia works closely with the UNHCR in determining those most
in need of resettlement," she said.

"At present, most refugees, about 75 per cent, are coming from camps in Africa.
If at some time the UNHCR makes a specific request to Australia to take refugees
from other areas, that request would be considered by DIMIA and DFAT (Department
of Foreign Affairs and Trade) and responded to promptly.

"Australia's generous refugee and humanitarian program provides places for
13,000 people in need."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2005 West Australian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              598 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                              June 24, 2005 Friday

Still haunted by Kosovo bombs

BYLINE: Nicholas Keung, Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 707 words


Becoming a refugee is a decision borne of necessity, a path of no return and a
journey of no certainty.

But over the past 50 years, 929,895 asylum-seekers from around the world have
made that decision, chosen that path and taken that journey to Canada.

On Monday, the bravery these refugees have shown in their struggle for freedom
and peace was celebrated on World Refugee Day, proclaimed by the United Nations
five years ago to pay tribute and draw attention to those who leave everything
behind to find safety.

In 2004, 17 million people around the world were regarded as refugees by the
United Nations, including people who are displaced within their countries,
stateless, forcibly returned or seeking asylum: 6.2 million in Asia, 4.2 million
in Africa, 4.2 million in Europe, about 1 million in North America and 1.3
million in Latin America and the Caribbean.

Canada, following the United States and Australia, is among the top three
recipients of people seeking permanent refuge from abroad, with a
government/private sponsorship program that takes in 11,000 each year - on top
of the 20,000 asylum claims a year filed from inside Canada, roughly 40 per cent
of which are granted.

The Star asked five individuals who came to Canada as political refugees to tell
their stories. The five stories have been appearing in the Star this week,
concluding today. Read the entire series and hear audio clips at
www.thestar.com/refugee.

1995-05: Canada offers to take 5,000 refugees affected by the 1999 Kosovo war,
most of them ethnic Albanians.

The sounds of Serbian forces bombing and shooting her fellow Albanians in Kosovo
still haunt Vlora Rrustemi.

The 25-year-old part-time security guard at Pearson International Airport
remembers leaving her family apartment in Pristina on March 30, 1999, with her
father Nexhmi, mother Sexhrije and younger brother Blerim.

They drove toward the Macedonian border, which had already been closed to block
out Albanian refugees. Everywhere, Serbian soldiers were robbing people fleeing
the violence.

It was plain to Rrustemi, an English major at the University of Pristina, and
her family what their fate would be if they stayed. Among the first wave of
refugees fleeing Kosovo's capital, they found refuge in neighbouring Albania for
about three months before arriving in Canada on June 11, 1999, through a private
sponsorship organized by an aunt in Canada.

After several years of English study, Rrustemi has enrolled in a broadcast
journalism program at Seneca College.

It started in the villages first. When the actual bombings started, the Serbian
force just got wild. We couldn't go out, not even to buy food, because they were
just all over. We were just isolated inside in our apartment, with our phone
line and electricity cut off.

Before they came in, you didn't want to wait for the soldiers to come. That'd be
it. We decided to leave.

We just had the clothes we had. We couldn't take nothing. We didn't have time to
take anything else. We were stopped in the village, not sure where they were
sending us. We did not believe they'd lead us to Albania. There were a lot of
cars coming or backing up. People wanted to go back because they were afraid
they were leading us to a mountain to execute all of us.

We were stopped again and again. (The Serbians) stopped and robbed our money,
valuables and jewellery.

It was hard in Canada in the beginning. We were forced to come. As a refugee,
you don't have a choice. I missed home, my friends and everyone there. We came
here and had no idea where our friends, families and relatives were.

There are so many things I like about Canada. In Europe, refugees have no
rights. In Canada, we had rights like everyone else. It's a peaceful country.

One day, I'd love to be a journalist. I believe, in my country at the time, the
wartime, the media played a key role with everything going on. It's the only way
to see the reality. I'd like to get into this (profession) and be one of them.
We don't want wars. I don't wish (anyone to) go through wars, because I still
have nightmares.

I'd like to tell Canada, first, to thank them for their help. We felt welcomed
here. I believe it's the best country in the world. Be a leader. I believe they
are a leader.

World refugee day

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Vince Talotta toronto star Vlora Rrustemi, 25, left Kosovo with her
parents father Nexhmi and mother Sexhrije to come to Canada as a refugee in
1999. She is studying to be a broadcast journalist because of the impact she
believes the media had by telling the world about her country's suffering.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                  Copyright 2005 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              599 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                            June 22, 2005 Wednesday

'Canada is a promised land'

BYLINE: Nicholas Keung, Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 781 words


The 929,895 asylum seekers who have come to Canada from around the world over
the past 50 years represent just a small sample of a global issue.

In 2004, a staggering 17 million people across the world were regarded as
refugees by the United Nations, including individuals who are displaced within
their countries, stateless, forcibly returned or seeking asylum: 6.2 million in
Asia, 4.2 million in Africa, 4.2 million in Europe, 1.3 million in Latin America
and the Caribbean and about 1 million in North America.

Canada, following the United States and Australia, is among the top three
recipients of people seeking permanent refuge. A government/private sponsorship
program takes in 11,000 refugees each year, on top of the 20,000 asylum claims
annually filed from inside Canada, roughly 40 per cent of which are granted.

On Monday, the bravery of those people in their struggle for freedom and peace
was celebrated on World Refugee Day, proclaimed by the U.N. five years ago to
pay tribute and draw attention to those who leave everything behind to find
safety. The theme this year: Courage.

The Star asked five individuals who came to Canada as political refugees, each
representing one of the past five decades, to talk about the fears, joys,
dilemmas, challenges and successes - and their gratitude to the country they now
call home.

The five stories are appearing in the Star daily until Friday.

You can also hear audio versions of the former refugees' stories at
www.thestar.com.

1975-85: Responding to media reports of the "boat people" who fled Vietnam's
communist regime, Canada resettled 60,000 escaping refugees.

When the communist regime took over Vietnam in 1975, it first confiscated the
wealth of the wealthiest, then started attacking middle-class people, including
Lan Ho's parents, Ngan and Nam Ho, who ran a family housewares store in Ca Mau.

The Ho family had been bribing some senior communist officials to ensure their
safety, but that ended when they could no longer afford the increasing demands.
They knew they had to go.

On April 20, 1983, Lan Ho's 17th birthday, the family boarded a tiny boat with
60 other compatriots to start a journey on the Pacific Ocean.

After three days on the open sea, they were rescued by a crew from an oil tanker
and placed in refugee camps in Malaysia, where they stayed for nine months
before first being accepted by France as refugees. They later came to Canada to
be reunited with Lan's older sister in Thunder Bay.

After a decade running the city's Stages bar, which mainly served students from
Lakehead University, Lan Ho, now 40, and her new husband Quang Dao moved to
Toronto. She went back to school in 2000 and now works as a dental assistant in
Mississauga. She is also studying for a diploma in accounting.

My parents were business people. For the communist people, they just didn't like
us. They thought we ripped off the poor people. They assumed that. When they
took over, they went after the very rich, then the level down. They took your
house and kicked you out of the house.

My parents gave money to the high rank people in government to buy peace. They
left them alone. Finally, they were going to do something to my family. They
came and accused my father of arranging a trip to leave Vietnam. After 1979, you
couldn't go freely anymore. You had to escape. We took off in 1983.

I was in the boat exactly on my birthday. I'd never forget that. It was a small
boat for 65 people, really crowded and probably unsafe, too. I don't know how we
fitted in there.

I only had two pants, two shirts, that's all. My mom didn't allow us to bring
anything because it's so dangerous. The policemen were everywhere. If you
carried things around, they would ask and check where you're going.

I was very scared. When you are in the middle of the ocean, you're so small.
Anything can take the lives away with little waves and you're gone. When you are
out there, it's just water and water. It's dark. You don't see anything. It's
scary.

Pirates could come and take all the money and jewellery. Sometimes they took the
young girls, too. I ran into a neighbour, his sister was taken away by some
fishermen and he never saw her again. We were lucky. We were blessed because we
didn't get into anything bad.

The people in Malaysia gave us a number for the boat. Our number was 862. That's
the numbers of the boats in order.

Thank you Canada for giving me the opportunity to have a better life. Look back
in Vietnam, I don't know how I would be under the communist regime. Canada is a
promised land. If you know what you want to do, something that you dream about
and put all your effort into it, you are going to get it. I want to thank Canada
for that.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  David Cooper TORONTO STAR On Lan Ho's 17th birthday in 1983, she, her
family and 60 other Vietnamese boarded a small boat to escape the communist
regime. The Ho family made it to this country and now live in Toronto.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                  Copyright 2005 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              600 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                             June 21, 2005 Tuesday

'People opened their arms'

BYLINE: Nicholas Keung, Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 806 words


Over the past 50 years, 929,895 asylum-seekers from around the world have chosen
to make Canada their new home.

Yesterday the bravery of these refugees was celebrated on World Refugee Day,
proclaimed by the United Nations five years ago. The theme this year: "Courage."

In 2004, there were a staggering 17 million people around the world regarded as
refugees by the UN, including people who are internally displaced within their
countries, stateless, forcibly returned or seeking asylum: 6.2 million in Asia,
4.2 million in Africa, 4.2 million in Europe, about 1 million in North America
and 1.3 million in Latin America and the Caribbean.

Canada, following the United States and Australia, is among the top three
recipients of people seeking permanent refuge, with a government/private
sponsorship program that takes in 11,000 refugees each year - on top of the
20,000 asylum claims a year filed from inside Canada, roughly 40 per cent of
which are granted.

The Toronto Star asked five individuals who came to Canada as political
refugees, each representing one of the past five decades, to talk about the
fears, joys, dilemmas, challenges and successes they experienced in their
journeys.

Their stories are appearing in the Star daily until Friday. You can also hear
audio versions of the stories at www.thestar.com.

1965-75: The overthrow of Chile's government in a 1973 military coup brought
7,000 Chilean refugees to Canada.

Marcela and Claudio Duran didn't see it coming.

On Sept. 11, 1973, the couple were getting ready for work as university
professors when they heard sirens coming from the military base near their
Santiago home. Turning the radio on, they were stunned to learn that the
democratically elected government led by Salvador Allende had been toppled.

Former supporters of the leftist government, including intellectuals like the
Durans, immediately became targets of the infamous Augusto Pinochet.

The couple, along with their 6-year-old daughter Francisca and 12-month-old son
Andres, went into hiding at the Canadian consulate, spending 10 days crammed
into the ambassador's house with 20 others in similar straits.

The Durans were among the first group of 25 Chilean refugees flown to Montreal
on Oct. 6, 1973. They moved to Toronto later that month.

Marcela, now 60, and Claudio, 65, never looked back. They relaunched their
academic careers, she as an education professor, he in philosophy, the following
year at York University. Marcela remembers how it was 32 years ago:

There was harsh persecution of everybody that would have been seen or perceived
as supporters of the government. The coup was on Sept. 11. That's our Sept. 11 -
in 1973! Intellectuals were persecuted. They were considered dangerous because
they supported a government that was going to bring an open democratic role to
socialism.

People were taken to prisons, to concentration camps. People were murdered
openly. These things had never happened in Chile in my lifetime, or my parents'
before.

We were very naive. We didn't think that a coup would happen. We were numbed. We
didn't know what it was. It's a very shocking experience, something not
predicted, not in your imagination, only read in newspaper accounts in other
societies.

I was very worried about the whole society. There was a curfew. The city was
occupied by military forces. We were kept under curfew. We heard shootings and,
not knowing what's happening, soon we heard people we knew (had been) taken to
prison, killed and disappeared. Even our president was being killed during the
bombing of the palace. Our house was raided, books were burned and the military
forces said our house would be under surveillance.

A lot of embassies were full of refugees. The government wouldn't let us go but
the Canadian embassy advocated for us.

When I was boarding the flight, the biggest emotion was non-emotion. I was
stunned. I was living a nightmare. It's not real. But survival is important.
Safety for children is important. You are grateful for the safety you're given.

Refugees are survivors. People were extremely kind and generous to us. There's
wonderful solidarity. Some friends had my husband meet with colleagues at U of T
and York University. He started teaching in January 1974. People opened their
arms and hearts to us - that was the experience of most of the refugees.

Surviving and having a good family life, loving relations, is a great
achievement for me in Canada. I think I have contributed as a citizen,
professionally, to train future teachers who are hopefully ethical, equitable
and understand what it means to live in a multiracial and multicultural society.

I'd like to tell Canada: "Thank you." We should continue to understand human
rights, to stand for human rights as a nation, and to continue to lead as an
ethical nation that stands for human rights for all peoples.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Ron Bull toronto STar Marcela and Claudio Duran, with grandchildren,
left to right, Tomas Carter Duran, 3, Benjamin Evans Duran, 5, and Jacob Carter
Duran, 8. "I'd like to tell Canada: 'Thank you,'" Marcela Duran says.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                  Copyright 2005 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              601 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                              June 20, 2005 Monday

'Biggest move in our lives'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 1027 words


Becoming a refugee is a decision borne of necessity, a path of no return and a
journey of no certainty.

But over the past 50 years, 929,895 asylum-seekers from around the world have
made that decision, chosen that path and taken that journey to Canada.

Today, the bravery these refugees have shown in their struggle for freedom and
peace will be celebrated on World Refugee Day, proclaimed by the United Nations
five years ago to pay tribute and draw attention to those who leave everything
behind to find safety. The theme this year: "Courage."

"It takes a lot of guts for people to take the decision to flee their own
countries, to go into the unknown," notes Jahanshah Assadi, Canadian
representative of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.

Toronto will mark World Refugee Day with an all-day concert at Yonge-Dundas
Square, where a wide variety of performing artists and writers, themselves
former refugees, will gather to celebrate the new lives and contributions
refugees have made in Canada. The free show runs between noon and 7 p.m.

They represent just a small sampling of a global problem. In 2004, there were a
staggering 17 million people around the world regarded as refugees by the United
Nations, including people who are internally displaced within their countries,
stateless, forcibly returned or seeking asylum: 6.2 million in Asia, 4.2 million
in Africa, 4.2 million in Europe, about 1 million in North America and 1.3
million in Latin America and the Caribbean.

"However, less than 1 per cent of them will be considered for resettlement, and
we'd like to appeal the affluent countries to continue to be generous with the
number of people they receive," Assadi said.

Canada, following the United States and Australia, is among the top three
recipients of people seeking permanent refuge from abroad, with a
government/private sponsorship program that takes in 11,000 refugees each year -
on top of the 20,000 asylum claims a year filed from inside Canada, roughly 40
per cent of which are granted.

"Canada has had a very impressive record in responding to the global needs,"
Assadi says. "It has a lot to be proud of."

The Star asked five individuals who came to Canada as political refugees, each
representing one of the past five decades, to talk about the fears, joys,
dilemmas, challenges and successes they experienced in their journeys - and
their gratitude to the country that they now call home.

This is an edited excerpt from the first of those interviews. The rest will
appear in the Star on a daily basis until Friday.

You can also hear audio versions of the former refugees telling their stories at
www.thestar.com.

1955-65:

The crushing of the 1956 anti-communist uprising forced more than 200,000
Hungarians to flee.

When Geza Matrai returned to Hungarian soil, 36 years after his escape in the
dark of night, he knelt and kissed the ground.

It was shortly after midnight on Dec. 23, 1956, when his parents, Geza and Kate,
sneaked him and younger sister Judit through the border crossing at Bucsu -
ironically, the name means "goodbye" - to Austria, and freedom.

By then, the Hungarian Revolution, which had broken out on Oct. 23, had been
suppressed by Soviet-led forces. But the real nightmare had just begun, as
secret agents began tracking down and persecuting people who sympathized with
the anti-communist rebellion.

Matrai's veterinarian father and schoolteacher mother, who had treated injured
revolutionaries in Budapest, were among the 37,000 Hungarians Canada took in.
They landed in Quebec on Feb. 11, 1957, and eventually settled in St. Paul,
Alta.

Matrai's abhorrence for the Soviet Union and communists never faded, as he moved
to Toronto to study at the University of Toronto and later led a local movement
promoting the liberation of Eastern Europe in the 1970s.

Now 60 and a social worker in Mississauga, Matrai remained on a Hungarian
government blacklist until the early '90s. In 1992, he finally returned to
Hungary, where he tracked down childhood friends and renewed his memories of
life before the family fled.

The Hungarian secret police were looking for my parents, because they were
helping the Hungarian revolutionaries ... They wanted to give their kids a
future in a country where you don't have to live in constant political terror -
and be free.

Before we left, my parents sat us down and told us: It's going to be the biggest
move in our lives. My father, at this time, was 49 years old. For him, it was
quite a change to start a new life. It was quite an adventure. My mom used the
border pass of a friend's wife and put her own photo on it. So my mom got to get
through the border. The friend took me on a bike as his son.

(In Canada) kids in school called me "bloody DP" (displaced person). There was
some hostility in school here because I was different. But there were kids who
were super helpful and friendly. I had a lot of fights. I had to prove myself.
But for whatever hostility in school, I met people who more than made that up
and became my close friends.

I wasn't allowed to go back to Hungary because of my anti-Soviet and
anti-communist activities. These activities had been the focus of my life until
the early 1990s, with the collapse of communism in Eastern Europe.

It was quite emotional for me to go back to Hungary. I'm 100 per cent Hungarian;
I'm a 100 per cent Canadian. So I'm a 200 per cent person. I love Canada. I'm
grateful to Canada. But I also feel 100 per cent Hungarian. It was just an
emotional feeling to return to Hungary.

I met some of my schoolmates and childhood friends, and I looked at them and
said, "God, they got old."

Last time we saw each other we were 12; this time we're in our 50s. But it felt
like I had never left.Even though communism has collapsed in Eastern Europe,
there's still Cuba, North Korea and China and others under dictatorship. The
evil is not completely gone yet.

We must never forget the people who sacrificed their lives and were oppressed
and suffered and lived through those horrible years.

We, as Hungarian Canadians, are grateful to Canada for giving us a good life,
and a free and just society. We're doing our best to give back to Canada.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Hans Deryk Toronto Star Geza Matrai, 60, who came to Canada from
Hungary with his family at age 12, stands in front of a monument in Budapest
Park on Lake Shore Blvd. W. near Sunnyside that commemorates those who lost
their lives during the 1956 Hungarian Revolution.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                  Copyright 2005 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              602 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    May 15, 2005 Sunday 2 Late Tampa Edition

EASING REFUGEES' TRANSITION;
 Refugees get advice, services

BYLINE: DEMORRIS LEE

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 680 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


They chased each other. They drew pictures, ate ice cream and won door prizes.

But behind the twinkling eyes and cheeks daubed with flowers at the
face-painting table, one could still see vestiges of struggle in the faces of
these children who've come so far and been through so much.

The struggle of having to leave your entire life behind. The struggle of playing
hopscotch with a friend one day and then never seeing her again.

Saturday, members of Lutheran Services Florida tried to help soften the
transition for about 100 refugees by hosting a Refugee Health Fair at its
facility at the corner of W Waters Avenue and N Dale Mabry Highway.

The fair included blood pressure and weight screenings, personal safety
instructions in three languages from the Hillsborough County Sheriff's Office
and children's health information.

The children from Somalia, Croatia, Columbia and a few other countries had their
heads fitted for bicycle helmets and ate goodies from red and green gift bags
while their parents tended to the business of putting their lives back together
in America.

"This is very, very much better, living here in America than where we were,"
said Hamida Ibrahim, 31, of Somalia. "In the (refugee) camp, there was a lot to
be afraid. America is better, not afraid here."

Through the use of a translator, Ibrahim said she and her family had lived in a
refugee camp in Kenya since 1999, before coming to America with her five
children in November. She said during the political turmoil in Somalia she
walked to Kenya for safety. She said Saturday's fair was helpful.

"Through this, we gain some more knowledge," she said. "There is much to learn."

The Tampa Bay area is scheduled to settle about 500 refugees this year, said
Rosa Rivera Mizzoni, director of Immigration and Refugee Services for Lutheran
Services Florida. Refugees must prove that they have a well-founded fear of
persecution based on race, religion, membership in a social group, political
opinion or national origin.

Each year, the U.S. president, along with Congress, sets the number of refugees
to be admitted to the country for resettlement. In fiscal year 2004, the number
was set at 70,000 admissions, but that many refugees have not been able to make
it to the country. In fiscal year 2002, 27,000 were admitted.

Mizzoni said that the Tampa Bay area has an "eclectic" mix of refugees,
including Vietnamese, Africans and Russians. She said it's important for the
newcomers to know how things work, their rights and the importance of health.
Bringing together other agencies such as the Department of Health, the Epilepsy
Services of West Central Florida and Amerigroup, which provides low and no-cost
health care to eligible families, is important.

"There is a rhythm to functioning in the United States," Mizzoni said. "We are
constantly reteaching them because for a while, everything is new. But the
minute they get the timing, things start working."

Deputy Juan Gonzales works with the Sheriff's Office of Refugee Resettlement,
which is funded by a federal grant. He was explaining the law enforcement system
to a Croatian family Saturday.

"In America, there are 25 guns for every one citizen," Gonzales said via a
translator to the family. "Having guns is a right that the Founding Fathers
provided for Americans. But if you can purchase a gun, come see me because I
have safety locks for them."

Gonzales went on to say: "It takes a lot of courage to leave everything and
start a new life. I respect you for that."

Alexander Ramirez of Columbia was at Saturday's fair and has been in the United
States since 2000. As his child pulled on him to go see Grimace and the
Hamburglar from McDonald's and to see if they were winners of the raffle, he
agreed that starting anew was difficult.

"It's very hard because it's a different culture, economic system, different
everything," Ramirez, 36, said. "But it's a safer place and that's what I was
looking for, a safer place to raise my children."

Demorris Lee can be reached at (813) 269-5312 or dalee@sptimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, CHRIS ZUPPA; Halimo Bilal, 8, watches McDonald's character the
Hamburglar, not pictured, greet kids as Grimace waves during the Lutheran
Services Florida Refugee Health Fair in Tampa Saturday.

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company


                              603 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 April 27, 2005

Society: Warm heart of steel: A UN programme aims to resettle 500 refugees a
year in the UK. But political jitters have led to only two councils signing up
to the scheme. Alison Benjamin reports

BYLINE: Alison Benjamin

SECTION: Guardian Society Pages, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1165 words


As she walked back from her first trip to the supermarket, Esther Freeman became
aware of people staring at her incredulously. She could not understand why. "I'd
just got off the bus with these three heavy bags full of juices and things," she
recalls. "It was really hard carrying them with my hands, so I put one of the
plastic bags on my head."

It was not until her support worker from the Refugee Council explained the
conventions of shopping in Britain that the penny dropped.

"In Africa we always put things on our heads, but I'll never do it again,"
Freeman says, roaring with laughter.

Freeman arrived in Britain last April with three of her children after fleeing
civil war in Liberia, west Africa. The family was one of the first to be
accepted by the Home Office under the United Nations High Commission for
Refugees (UNHCR) Gateway programme, a scheme that has resettled tens of
thousands of refugees in the US, Canada and Australia.

Other countries, including New Zealand, Norway and the Netherlands, have each
taken several hundred, and the British government was hoping that in the
programme's first year of operation here, 500 refugees would be welcomed.

But the hostile political climate surrounding asylum seekers and refugees has
disrupted these plans. Only two councils - Labour-controlled Sheffield, and
Liberal Democrat-led Bolton - agreed to take part, and just 150 refugees have
arrived in the past 12 months.

The first Freeman knew that she was going to live in Sheffield, England's fourth
largest city, was when she and her children were put on a coach two days after
arriving at Heathrow one grey, cold morning last April. Their 20-strong group
was met by the Refugee Council, which won the Home Office contract to provide a
year's worth of support for the 69 Liberians, including setting up bank accounts
for those without conventional ID.

In addition, the city council pulled together a multi-agency team to ensure that
the job centre, GPs, housing associations and schools were all ready to accept
the families and meet their needs.

When Freeman, who with her family had spent eight years in a refugee camp in
Guinea, first set eyes on her family's new home - a three-bedroom flat in the
south of the city - she remembers turning to her support worker, Adam Hoti, and
saying: "Thank you God. Let us pray." Electricity and running water were a
distant memory to her, and the younger children had never slept in a bed.

An optimistic, warm-hearted person with a strong Christian faith, Freeman and
her children, Newman, 17, Florida, 13, and her twin Florence (who was reunited
with the family in Sheffield in January, having been separated by war) and
seven-year-old Mike appear to have adjusted well to their new life. Freeman has
a part-time job as a care assistant in a residential home for older people and
is learning about Sheffield's industrial heritage at the same college where
Newman is taking his A-levels. The younger children have made friends at school
and at the local evangelical church.

The council has shielded the newcomers from any potentially hostile reception by
keeping under wraps the location of their home and school, and employers' names.
It has also tried to draw a distiction between Liberian refugees and asylum
seekers. "Those who arrive in Sheffield will already have refugee status. They
have been through health screening and are in a position to start integrating
into our community straight away," said council leader Jan Wilson, welcoming the
first arrivals.

Moreover, Sheffield has a cross-party members' advisory group on refugees and
asylum seekers which seeks to prevent the usual gripes about jumped housing
waiting lists and benefit claims from being turned into a political football.
Sheffield council's asylum team manager, Belinda Gallup, says of the programme:
"The money comes (from the Home Office) with the refugees so they are not a
drain on health or education."

The council also says that because the 20 homes rented by the Liberians are all
in areas of low demand, they are not queue-jumping. In Bolton, where a further
87 Liberian and Congolese refugees arrived five months ago, the council has a
portfolio of 160 properties, half of them owned by private landlords, that are
used only for asylum seekers and refugees.

Jon Lord, Bolton council's head of community housing services, says this means
local lettings are not affected.

This has not stopped critics from attacking the council for putting refugees
before residents. Such views have led other councils to fight shy of joining the
Gateway programme. Earlier this year, a plan by Liberal Democrat-led Devon
county council to house 10 refugee families in Exeter were dropped after the
local Labour MP, Ben Bradshaw, made the the Home Office aware of the housing
pressures the city faced.

Expanding the programme remains an uphill struggle for the Home Office, which
remains committed to accepting 500 refugees a year under the Gateway scheme and
has turned to Scotland for help. "We have always said that we want to do this in
partnership with local authorities and continue to work hard to encourage local
authorities to participate," says a Home Office spokeswoman. Talks are being
held with three other local authorities, but she declined to give further
details.

Councils could find themselves in difficulty should the Conservatives form the
next government, since a central plank of the Tory party's immigra tion and
aslyum proposals are to expand the programme and make it the only channel by
which an annual quota of refugees could enter Britain. A Conservative party
spokeswoman states: "We're supportive of the scheme that takes genuine refugees
already selected by UNHCR and our ultimate aim is to only take refugees in this
way."

But UNHCR could scupper such plans. It has said it would consider withholding
cooperation from a Tory government that withdrew from the Geneva convention on
refugees. Commenting on the Gateway programme's limited success in the UK, UNHCR
urges patience. "It is too early to cast stones at authorities," says a
spokesman.

Bolton says it is considering whether to take more Gateway refugees. In the
run-up to the general election, Sheffield is more circumspect. Whatever the
programme's future, Freeman wants to dispel the myth that refugees are here for
state handouts.

"Refugees do contribute to the welfare of this country. It is wrong to think
they only come to live off benefits. Many are working very hard."

She plans to advance her employment prospects and take care of her children. "If
I see my son in college (he hopes to study engineering) I will say, 'British
government, thank you'."

Weblinks

Refugee Council is at www.refugeecouncil.org.uk

United Nations High Commission for Refugees is at www.unhcr.ch

Sheffield city council is at www.sheffield.gov.uk

Bolton metropolitan borough council is at www.bolton.gov.uk


LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              604 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                             April 11, 2005 Monday

Newcomers grab lifelines

BYLINE: Lucinda Dillon Kinkead and Dennis Romboy Deseret Morning News

LENGTH: 899 words


Koffi Djagba is known by refugees to be a tough caseworker. He rides his
refugees to get jobs, to learn English. He does not coddle them, and he doesn't
give anything away.

"I am very tough on them, because I have to be," said Djagba, who is himself a
refugee from the African country of Togo.

He visits their homes and pays close attention to the way the children progress.
He watches the way they dress, how the house looks. He takes note of whether
family members are at home when they should be and gone to school or work at
appropriate times.

Without close supervision, Djagba says, young refugees especially get snared in
all the same bad behavior that challenges Westerners. "This will not help them
on the road to the future," he said.

It is the job of Koffi Djagba, and many others in positions like his, to help
refugees navigate these "American ways."

Caseworkers at Catholic Community Services, the International Rescue Committee
and Jewish Family Services are the lifeline for refugees for months when they
step off the plane in Utah.

Even before the plane touches down, these caseworkers have rented apartments and
arranged for furniture for refugee families. They meet the plane, introduce
newcomers to their homes, buy food for the first few nights, and depending on
the education and history of the refugees, walk them through living skills from
the obtuse to the obvious.

How to use the bus. How to use the stove. How to use a key. How to learn to
drive. How to get food stamps. How to shop at the grocery store. Caseworkers
take refugees to get their Social Security cards, to health screenings, to ESL
classes and to job training workers.

They know the lay of the land because most are refugees themselves.

Galena Bakina followed her son here as a refugee from Uzbekistan in 1992.

After the breakup of the Soviet Union and individual nations gaining
independence, they lived in Uzbekistan. "It became very dangerous for anyone who
wasn't Muslim."

Some were persecuted or humiliated in public. Other Jews were beaten or
threatened in their homes.

Galena Bakina's son left the country first. Dmitri, his wife and 18-month-old
son were granted refugee status after a laborious wait, and they came to the
United States from Moscow in 1990.

Now Bakina works with Jewish Family Services helping Russians gain citizenship
and learn English.

Sala Awad worked in a post office and a warehouse before landing his position at
the International Rescue Committee.

"It was kind of a dream job," he said. "Helping people was my priority."

As a case manager, Awad helps some of the world's most helpless people -- newly
arrived refugees who don't have a clue about living in America.

He is a refugee himself, from Somalia by way of Kenya and Uganda. "They depend
on you," he said. "I have to do everything for them."

Resettlement in Utah starts with refugees' names coming across the fax machine
at the IRC office.

"Some of them have never seen their name on paper until they come to
Immigration," Awad said.

After the refugees are established, they monitor the sometimes rocky road
between cultures of their home country and the new one in the West.

A few days ago, Djagba was chasing down a 15-year-old Somali Bantu boy. "He's
into the rap music and the bling-bling. I can't find him. He's never home. So, I
must find him and talk to him," Djagba said.

On another day, he talks to a teenage Somali Bantu girl who Djagba has learned
is pregnant. After asking some questions, Djagba finds out the girl has been
raped by an older Somali Bantu man who lives near the girl. He spends a day
helping her to fill out a police report and make arrangements for her to meet
with medical and law enforcement authorities.

"Life here is very confusing for some of the refugees," he said. "Some of them
have a very hard time adjusting to America. This is not Africa. This is not
anywhere else in the world. This is America, and the refugees must learn the
American ways or they will not make it."

Back in Togo, Djagba's father was the head of the Democratic Party's opposition
movement. In 1992, Djagba's father was fatally shot for his politics, he said.

The young man fled to neighboring Burkina Faso, where he earned a bachelor's
degree in biochemistry before an increasingly hostile climate drove him to apply
for refugee status. He came to Utah in September 1998.

He is married to a young woman from Mali whom he met in Utah. She attends LDS
Business College, and he will go back to college when she has finished.

The stories of these successful refugees -- those who now earn their living
connecting refugees to their new lives -- all are testimonies to the value of
education, Wiyual Jang says.

Essentially reared in a refugee camp in Ethiopia, he came to the United States
in 1994. He'd married a woman he met in the camp, and the two now have three
children.

Jang says he couldn't have made it on the $4.25 minimum wage he earned back
then. He went back to high school and graduated from Horizonte Instruction and
Training Center. He earned a nursing assistant certificate, went to South Dakota
to earn more money and hone work skills, then came back to Salt Lake City.

Now he works at Catholic Community Services supervising employment for refugees.

"It is very difficult for them to go to work all day and then go to school at
night," he said. "But this is what they have to do." E-mail: lucy@desnews.com;

romboy@desnews.com

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2005 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                              605 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            December 31, 2004 Friday

A NEW DAY

BYLINE: ELISABETH DYER

SECTION: CITY TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 939 words

DATELINE: SOUTH TAMPA


For years, Deborah Dennis prayed for a way out of Liberia.

Out of the war-torn country where rebels killed her father, a police officer.
Out of the bushes where she hid without food or a safe place to sleep. Out of
the crowded refugee camp where she lived for more than a decade.

"I used to pray that (President) Bush would let me come to America," she said.

With help from a local church, Deborah, 26, her husband, Winston, 38, and their
three children now live in an apartment off S Dale Mabry Highway.

It's the life they once only dreamed about.

"America is a freedom country," Winston said in a British accent.

+++

The Dennises came to Tampa in May. This marks their first new year in the United
States.

Last year, the family ushered in 2004 with an all-night party in the refugee
camp. It started with a church service at 11 p.m.

"We sing and dance and drum 'til 6 o'clock in the morning," Deborah said. "It's
a time to thank God for a good life."

This year, still wary about going out alone, they plan to celebrate the new year
quietly at home.

Born in Liberia, they were among more than 400,000 people who fled to
neighboring countries when rebels overthrew the government and civil war erupted
in 1990. Winston's brother, an uncle and Deborah's father were killed in the
war.

"After my father died, my mother used to suffer," said Deborah, the oldest of
three children who was 11 when her father died. "We used to go in the bush and
pick up some dry wood and put it on our heads and sell it and go to the market
and buy food."

When war broke out, Winston and Deborah arrived separately at the refugee camp
in Ivory Coast, a neighboring country on Africa's west coast. Three years later,
they married. She was 15.

The couple had three children in the camp: sons Abraham, now 8, and Joseph, 5;
and daughter, Delphine, 2. They lived with 25 other families in a room the size
of their living and dining area in Tampa.

"Refugee life was bad," Deborah said. "If I told you, you may not believe it. We
have to squeeze ourselves together."

+++

Getting out of camps is complicated, said Susan Baukhages, a spokeswoman for
Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Services in Baltimore.

The U.N. High Commission for Refugees sets up camps and determines who qualifies
to enter. Refugees must have fled because of religious or political persecution
or the threat of violence.

Each year, the U.S. president and Congress determine how many refugees to admit
and from which countries. Candidates are screened several times for health and
security risks.

Refugees granted asylum in the United States must work or attend school and must
repay the government for their travel expenses.

The Dennises were among about 400 refugees in the past year who were placed in
Tampa, Miami and Orlando through Lutheran Services Florida. The organization
helps families find housing and jobs and enroll in school.

Many refugees come not knowing the language, how to drive or use kitchen
appliances.

+++

The Dennises arrived with little more than the clothes they were wearing.
Deborah brought a few photos of friends and her mother.

Members of Good Shepherd Lutheran Church on Dale Mabry greeted them at the
airport and furnished them a modest two-bedroom apartment in the Ohio Apartments
in Gandy/Sun Bay South.

Church members drive them to Sunday and Wednesday services, to doctors'
appointments and to Publix on Tuesdays. They bought the Dennises their first
Christmas tree, decorations and gifts, including a skateboard, a toy truck and a
doll.

Children at the church have equally embraced the family, teaching the kids to
count and say their ABCs. After a recent Sunday service, Hannah Mackley, Katie
Schaefer and sister Christina raced leapfrog-style with them down the church
aisles.

"We try to burn off some of their energy," Katie said. "It makes my heart
happy."

The boys attend Chiaramonte Elementary School, where they recently met Santa for
the first time.

Deborah and Winston have no formal education. They speak Grebo - their native
tongue - some English and some French. They cannot read or write.

Helping the family has been a rewarding experience for the entire church, said
deacon Deedee Blancett. About 200 people a week attend three weekend services.

"We have been given a gift of people who needed our help as a concerted effort,"
Blancett said. "It's brought us closer."

+++

In the new year, Deborah and Winston aim to learn to read. Deborah hopes to find
work caring for children or elderly people. Winston plans to keep his job,
working as a carpenter.

At home in their apartment, they watch television news, hoping for word from
Africa. They want to help family they left behind. Deborah's mother, younger
brother and sister are still in the camp. Winston's mother is in Liberia.

A new baby is due in March - the family's first U.S. citizen. Deborah plans to
let the church name the child "so wherever we go, we will always remember the
church."

Elisabeth Dyer can be reached at 226-3321 or edyer@sptimes.com.

How to help

To help refugee families, call Lutheran Services Florida at 875-1408 or go to
http://www.lsfnet.org.DL:

About Liberia

Size: Slightly larger than Tennessee

Population: 3.4-million

Median age: About 18

Life expectancy: About 48 years, compared with 77 in the United States

Unemployment rate: 85 percent

Main exports: Rubber, timber, iron, diamonds, cocoa, coffee

Source: CIA World Factbook, ESRI

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, CHRIS ZUPPA, (2); MAP; Joseph Dennis, 5, unwraps a Christmas
present early on Dec. 21.; Liberian refugees Deborah and Winston Dennis with
their children in their apartment; Map shows location of Liberia in western
Africa

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              606 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                           December 28, 2004 Tuesday
                                  All Editions

A job for himself, an education for his children

BYLINE: Stacy St. Clair, Daily Herald Staff Writer

SECTION: SUBURBAN LIVING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 276 words


Dadiri Muya didn't ask for much when he came to the United States.

He wanted freedom. He wanted safety. And he wanted his children to attend
school.

Nearly one year after emigrating from Africa, he has realized all three dreams.

Muya, a Somali Bantu who comes from one of the world's most primitive and abused
cultures, has quickly settled into his American life.

His progress has pleasantly surprised relief workers who anticipated a rough
transition for him and the other 12,000 Bantu refugees expected to settle in the
United States by next year.

"Dadiri is doing really, really well," Zahra Mohammed said. "I'm so proud of
him."

Muya, whose homes had never had running water or electricity before coming to
America, spent the last decade working as a messenger in a United Nations
refugee camp in Kenya.

Shortly after arriving in America, he took a job washing dishes at Red Lobster.
He uses the money to pay the rent and buy groceries for his family.

He also enrolled his children in the local elementary school and is an active
participant in their schooling, Mohammed said.

Muya, 31, who is illiterate, believes education is the key to a his children's
future. The thing he most requests from aid workers are books and learning aids
for his children.

"Dadiri is very concerned about their schooling," Mohammed said. "He always
wants to know how the children are doing. He wants them to succeed."

His success has made him a leader among other local Bantus, including his older
brother and sister who moved to Wheaton several months before him and live in
the same apartment complex.

"Dadiri is doing so well," Mohammed said. "He is an example for all the others."

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: The New Suburban Mosaic : A monthly look at our ever-changing melting
pot

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                              607 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            December 26, 2004 Sunday

Family celebrates first holiday in America's arms;
Season for Caring participants settle in to new life after years of fear and
homelessness as refugees in Africa

BYLINE: Kevin Robbins, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. H1

LENGTH: 839 words


On Christmas morning, the man who once had nothing watched his children open
their gifts.

There were games and coats and sweaters and there was a table a woman in Bastrop
had made with little inlaid tiles: the family's first checkerboard. There were
seven bikes -- one for each of Sheku Kamara's daughters and sons. The youngest,
3-year-old Hawa, also received a plastic toy horse. She loves to twist its mane.

"She's never had anything like it," Sunny Kim said.

Kim works for Caritas of Austin, an agency that helps refugee families such as
the Kamaras achieve self-sufficiency in their new surroundings. Caritas
sponsored the Liberian family in the Austin American-Statesman's Season for
Caring campaign, which has given the Kamaras a Christmas they will always
remember.

Sheku and Asata Kamara arrived in Austin four months ago, their family's
belongings stuffed into two suitcases.

Caritas helped them find an apartment. The children enrolled in school. Sheku
and Asata began to learn English and, for the first time in a long time, stopped
fearing for their lives.

They came from Liberia, where Sheku was a diver, sifting through river bottoms
for gold and diamonds. They tried to lead a good life, but the West African
nation was imploding with unrest, and the family was forced to flee to Sierra
Leone.

That move began a 14-year period of exile in which the family had no home.

The Kamaras lived in refugee camps in Sierra Leone and Guinea until August, when
they were able to resettle in the United States.

"I love America," Sheku, 52, said shortly after arriving in Austin.

But the new way of life was confusing to a man who had never lived anywhere but
Africa. He and his family had to learn bus routes, how to buy American food, how
to get a driver's license.

Caritas nominated the Kamaras for the Season for Caring campaign because they
had so little to begin with.

The Kamaras needed shoes, shirts and underwear. Shortly after their story
appeared in November, shoes, shirts and underwear arrived.

They needed a sewing machine so Asata could mend what few clothes they had. A
sewing machine came.

They wanted palm oil but didn't know how or where to find it. Soon, bottles of
palm oil came to Caritas. Sheku and Asata opened them and inhaled deeply. They
loved the scent.

"It was very, very nice," Sheku said. "I want to thank everybody."

Each day got better.

Sheku and Asata hoped that someone could find some bikes for the children, who
range in age from 3 to 17.

After the story appeared, Caritas received a check for $700. On the Monday after
school closed for the holidays, the Kamara family went shopping for bikes.

A microwave came. So did a basketball. Everyone got a watch. The kids got soccer
balls. Four of them.

There were so many donations for the children that the people at Caritas began a
pile in an office to save until Christmas morning.

"We want some surprises," said Erin Caro, the Caritas caseworker who has been
with the Kamaras since the beginning of this journey.

The generosity of strangers came in forms large and small. When the handmade
checkers table arrived, Caros asked Sheku: "Do you know how to play checkers?"

"Checkers?" Sheku replied, as if he could barely believe that he and his family
now had their own checkerboard.

People sent jackets and pants and letters explaining how, at one point in their
lives, they also had nothing. They understood.

A computer came. Sheku and Asata got a $250 gift card to Target.

Asata's first purchase will be a new pair of shoes, Caro said.

Sheku and Asata are still looking for work, however, and their financial aid is
coming to an end. With no income, Asata has a hard time coming up with enough
money to do her family's wash at the coin laundry. For now, she washes their
clothes in a tub at home and hangs them throughout their apartment on Riverside
Drive. But a roll of quarters right now seems as precious to her as the gold her
husband once dove into rivers to find.

The Kamaras have been in Austin for only a few months. But already they feel
like part of the community, like they belong.

Their children have many friends from school. There is a small neighborhood of
Liberians in North Austin, and the Kamaras hope to meet them soon.

They are far from lonely. They feel the arms of the city wrapped around them --
an embrace of caring charity. They want everyone to know that they're honored by
it all.

Asata said, "I feel free."

The Kamaras are one of 11 families featured in the Austin American-Statesman's
2004 Season for Caring. Donations of cash, goods and services for the families,
and the Central Texas nonprofit agencies that nominated them, will be accepted
throughout January.

Learn more about each family, and   the   specific   items   they

still   need   to   get   back   on   their

feet, at statesman.com/season forcaring.  Or make a donation using the coupon on
page G3. After each family's needs are met, the nominating agency will
distribute additional donations to other families in need.

krobbins@statesman.com; 445-3602

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Hawa Regina Kamara, 3, tries out a pink bicycle complete with tassels
last week during a shopping trip for her and her six siblings.
The Kamara children all have their own new bicycles. Kabba, 17, back left,
Mamadee, 12, Yusufu, 15, Lasana, 7, front left, Hawa Regina, 3, Abubakar, 11,
and Mariama, 8, show off their new wheels, along with their parents, Sheku and
Asata, back right.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 The Austin American Statesman


                              608 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           December 18, 2004 Saturday
                          FIVE STAR LATE LIFT EDITION

Mama Zed

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 979 words


LOCAL HERO

AT THIS TIME OF YEAR, Zed Minale likes to remind people that Jesus himself was a
refugee. "Look at where he was born," she says in her lyrical French- and
African-accented English. "They went from house to house and nobody wanted them.
The place he was born, it was not unlike the places these people came from."

Zed Minale (MINN-alay) gestures across the crowded one-room office, the room at
the inn, the one-room headquarters of the African Refugee and Immigration
Service of St. Louis. It is jammed with four staffers, a couple of volunteers
and a dozen people newly arrived to the United States from various refugee camps
in various African hellholes. Some are wearing the colorful dress of their
native lands. Others, young men mostly, early adapters, already have the
sneakers-baggy pants-and-stocking-cap look going on, accented with puffy jackets
that make them look like Michelin men.

They are speaking English. They are speaking French. They are speaking
indigenous languages -- Africa's got 1,800 of them, including whistling.

They are welcome here no matter how they are dressed and no matter what language
they speak. In this one $60-a-month rented room in the basement of Compton
Heights Christian Church, 2149 South Grand Boulevard, these newest St. Louisans
get the help they need to begin their new lives in America.

In this one room, they can get someone to help get a drivers license. To help
get a job. To help translate a mysterious document from the distant and awesome
place where the gas is turned on. To help take a baby to a doctor and make the
doctor understand that the baby has a fever.

In this one room, on a budget of $66,000 a year, one small and
fiercely-determined 49-year-old woman and her staff of four make America happen
for hundreds of people. They call her Mama Zed.

How Mama Zed came to America: In 1974, she was a student studying abroad in
England. At home in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, her father was a telecommunications
executive. That was the year a military junta overthrew Emperor Haile Selassie.
Her family fled. Zed could not go home.

In 1978, she married a young Ghanan doctor named Zwesi Dugbatey, and together
they moved to Ghana. Dr. Dugbatey became the official physician to Ghana's
president, Hilla Limann, just in time to see a military coup topple the
government. "You need to leave," a man told Dr. Dugbatey. "They are looking for
you."

The doctor and his family fled east to Togo. They slept on the bare floors of a
refugee camp. Zed remembers the mosquitoes that bit her infant daughter's face
into a swollen mass, and the smell of the mosquito coils, and the acrid stench
of fish frying in the market in Lome, and the buzzing of the flies.

She remembers the kindness of a stranger who offered them his apartment, how she
and her husband, a sister, a cousin and a daughter and everything they owned fit
into the small taxicab that took them to the apartment, a place that was
spacious and clean, with a view of the sea. "Overnight, everything can change,"
she said.

Not always for the better. The doctor set up a clinic, caring for Ghanans in
Togo. Again a man came to see him. "You need to leave," he said. "They are
looking for you again."

They found asylum in the United States, and were offered a choice of settlement
locations. Zed's daughter had been studying in a French school. They figured a
city named after a French king would feel familiar.

St. Louis was good to Dr. Dugbatey and his family. With a Ph.D. and a master's
in public health to go with his medical degree, he joined the faculty at the St.
Louis University School of Public Health. Their daughter, Elle, just graduated
from St. Louis University; their son, Jean Paul, attends Clayton High School.

But Zed couldn't forget the bare floors and the acrid smell of frying fish, the
buzzing flies and mosquitoes. She began working with refugees, teaching them
about America. With a three-year $150,000 grant, she founded the African Refugee
and Immigrant Service almost five years ago. When the grant ran out, she became
a full-time volunteer.

"For me it is a calling," she said. "I will do it until I can't do it any more.
For some reason, I seem to attract good-hearted volunteers."

People like Rachel Eckardt, who is on her way out the door to do casework, and
Anne Marie Rosche, a student at Washington University who is at the computer,
and Hawa Ahmed, who is translating documents and Kathleen Heldenbrand, who
manages the office. Board members like Kwado Armano, Shirley Padmore, Beatryx
Epps and Easter Walker. Volunteers like Larry and Judy Kendall of Wildwood.
Larry just dropped off a table, and Judy and her teaching partner at MICDS,
Joyce Foster, annually get their sixth-graders and their families involved in
the lives of the refugees.

Several thousand African refugees now call St. Louis home, with more arriving
each month. Overnight they leave squalid camps and are dropped into a new
culture, one brimming with opportunities, but one that is utterly strange. Mama
Zed and her helpers are there to ease the transition.

"Sometimes," she said, "they have so many problems, it's easy to forget that
they are also people. Sometimes all they need is for someone to ask how they are
feeling, to care about them as individuals. But I tell myself, because I know,
that if they've gone through what they've gone through, then they will make it
here, too."
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--- Profile

Name: Zed Minale

Age: 49

Home: Richmond Heights

Family: Married to Dr. Kwesi Dugbatey; daughter, Elle, 22; son, Jean Paul, 15

Born: Addis Ababa, Ethiopia

Education: University of London, England

Position: Executive director of African Immigrant and Refugee Service, which she
founded in 2000.

Contact information: 2149 South Grand Boulevard, St. Louis, MO 63104; (314)
577-6880; E-mail: africanrs@aol.com

mdl

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Do you know a Local Hero? To nominate someone you know as a Local Hero,
please write us at Local Heroes, c/o Editorial Page, St. Louis Post-Dispatch,
900 N. Tucker Blvd., St. Louis MO 63101.  You can also e-mail us at
localheroes@post-dispatch.com, or post your nomination online at
STLtoday.com/localheroes.  Tell us in a few words why you think this person is
making a difference, and let us know how to get in touch with him or her.
Please include your name, address and a daytime phone number where we can reach
you (we will not publish your personal information).

GRAPHIC: photo
 PHOTO by SAM LEONE / POST-DISPATCH - Fatma Msumi (left), Kathleen Heldenbrand,
Zed Minale, and Safina Mohamed, look at pictures from Africa when Heldenbrand
lived there.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: PROFILE EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              609 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                   December 10, 2004 Friday ST. PAUL EDITION

STUDY SAYS REFUGEE WOMEN AT RISK
VICTIMS OF VIOLENCE AFRAID TO SEEK SERVICES

BYLINE: TODD NELSONPioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 403 words


Refugee and immigrant women who suffer domestic abuse occupy an "underworld of
violence" often beyond the reach of advocates, the criminal justice system and
others who could help them, according to an author of a report released today.

Language barriers, community pressures not to report domestic abuse and fear
that a victim, spouse or both will face deportation are obstacles that often
keep authorities from responding effectively, according to the report from
Minnesota Advocates for Human Rights, a Minneapolis-based nonprofit agency.

"The obstacles are great, and they are isolating refugee and immigrant women
from safety and services," said Cheryl Thomas, director of the Women's Human
Rights Program at Minnesota Advocates and an author of the report. "Police,
prosecutors, advocates all expressed the concern that there's this world of
violence going on that we don't see and can't access."

The report is one of the first of its kind in the United States, said Eva
Aguilar of Praxis International, a battered women's advocacy organization.
Aguilar served on the report advisory committee.

Researchers spoke directly to battered refugee and immigrant women who came to
this country under a variety of circumstances and from differing social classes.
The women left their homelands in Latin America, Southeast Asia, East Africa and
other parts of the world.

Minnesota Advocates undertook the study at the urging of a battered immigrant
women's task force, social service providers and advocates for refugee and
immigrant women. "There was just a need to document this clearly in a report
they could use to make arguments for funding needs and other services," Thomas
said.

Language barriers pose the greatest impediment to immigrant women seeking
protection from domestic abuse, the report finds. Abusive men often use superior
education and knowledge of English to isolate spouses from the community and
services. A victim's inability to speak English -- police may rely on children,
neighbors or even the suspected spouse to interpret -- could result in an
inadequate or biased police report.

The report recommends making improvements to interpretation services, shelters,
police domestic-violence units and legal and other services.

The report is posted at the agency's Web site at www.mnadvocates.org.

Todd Nelson can be reached at toddnelson@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-557.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: MINNESOTA DOMESTIC ABUSE

                     Copyright 2004 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              610 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                        The Legal Ledger (St. Paul, MN)

                           December 9, 2004 Thursday

Hmong arrivals help swell MN's refugee numbers

BYLINE: Charley Shaw

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 481 words


Driven higher by new Hmong arrivals, Minnesota's refugee numbers have swelled
this year, more than doubling the totals in each of the recent previous years.

The state Health Department said more than 5,300 refugees had arrived in the
state by October, compared with 2,403 in all of 2003, 1,035 in 2002 and 2,791 in
2001.

September, in particular, showed a sharp increase in refugees, mostly Hmong.
During that month, 1,352 Hmong refugees arrived from the Wat Tham Krabok camp in
Thailand, compared with 443 non-Hmong refugees entering the state.

Since June, more than 1,900 Hmong refugees have arrived in Minnesota.

Refugees, who have special status as victims of war, famine or other cruelty,
are counted in total immigrant numbers only after they are granted permanent
immigrant status, a process that takes at least a year, said Barbara Ronningen,
senior research analyst at the state Demographic Center.

The increase in refugees follows a decline in total legal immigration in 2003,
especially in the number of Hmong immigrants. Only 67 immigrants to Minnesota in
2003 were born in the Hmong homeland of Laos, a statistic that likely will be
dwarfed when this year's Hmong refugees seeking immigrant status.

A total of 8,406 immigrants from all over the world moved to Minnesota in 2003,
compared with 13,522 in 2002, the state's historical high.

Immigration has experienced increases and declines over the years for a variety
of reasons. After the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, tightened regulations
on immigration and refugees were the main reason for the decline in immigration
that followed, she said.

Immigration numbers are compiled for the federal fiscal year between Oct. 1 and
Sept. 30, thus the 2003 statistics cover the second full year after the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks.

Two-thirds of new arrivals in 2003 were born in Asia (2,814) or Africa (2,775).
The most immigrants to Minnesota in 2003 were born in Somalia (786), followed by
India (651), Ethiopia (627), the Philippines (419), Mexico (398) and China
(386).

Among new immigrants, 85 percent found residence in the Twin Cities. Immigrants
from Latin American countries, Bosnia-Herzegovina and the Sudan are among those
least likely to select the metro area, Ronningen said.

The Hmong refugees, who originated in Laos, fled their country after fighting
for the United States during the Vietnam War era. When Laos fell to the
communists, refugees fled to neighboring Thailand.

Later, many Hmong were resettled in the United States. By 2001, there were
300,000 Hmong in the United States.

At Wat Tham Krabok, 15,000 Hmong refugees lived on the temple grounds before the
resettlement began this year, according to the Health Department.

The Health Department has a refugee health program that works with local health
departments and private health-care providers to screen new refugees.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: General news

                      Copyright 2004 Dolan Media Newswires
                                All Rights Reserved


                              611 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                     November 29, 2004 Monday Home Edition

Saying hello to America;
At a little school in Decatur, students reflect the faces of the world. New
friends, hugs and tough stories about long trips often mix.

BYLINE: KELLY WATTON

SOURCE: For the Journal-Constitution

SECTION: Living; Pg. 4E; NEWS FOR KIDS

LENGTH: 890 words


Every day, kids at the International Community School in Decatur tell classmates
about their native countries. They come from all over the world --- and have
plenty to say.

At the school, which has 222 students, there are American kids --- and kids from
more than 40 countries. Together, their families speak more than 45 languages.
That's a lot of ways to say hello!

Some moved to the United States because their families wanted to; they are
immigrants. Others came because it was dangerous in their homeland. Escaping
from war or violence or political trouble, they became refugees. (They're called
refugees because they moved to another country to find a safe place to stay, and
another word for such a place is "refuge.")

Half the students at the International Community School are from countries other
than the United States.

To help recognize their many cultures, each year the school celebrates U.N. Day.
Kids dress in traditional clothes from their families' original countries.

They also kick up their heels while marching in a "Parade of Nations" and sing
songs in a variety of languages.

Nine-year-old Felipe Hernandez said his class practiced a Spanish song for two
weeks. But you can bet Felipe had no problem learning it. He's from Cuba, and
Felipe speaks "Spanish, English and a little French," he said.

Today we'll introduce you to a few students.

Fareedah Boston-Ali

Age: 9

Grade: Fourth

From: Afghanistan, a country in Asia between Iran and Pakistan

Favorite part of living in the U.S.: "1776," a movie about the American
Revolution that her class is watching

How they escaped: Fareedah's family left Afghanistan because of violence. They
escaped to Pakistan. On the way, two of Fareedah's brothers were separated from
the rest of her family. No one knew what happened to them.

Job as a kid: Fareedah explains that before arriving in the United States, her
family lived in Pakistan for four years. While they were there, she and one of
her brothers went to school in the mornings and spent their afternoons working
in a factory weaving carpets. She said, "I made a carpet, and it is taking a
long time, and then when it's finished, we celebrate."

Brothers found after 10 years: When Fareedah was 6, her family moved to Atlanta.
Nine months ago, they got a really great surprise --- a phone call saying
someone had found her two brothers. They had been missing for 10 years! When her
family escaped to Pakistan, her brothers fled to Iran, a country that borders
Afghanistan and Pakistan.

All here now: Last month, Fareedah's brothers came to Atlanta to live with her
family. When the family picked them up at the airport, Fareedah says, "My mom
cried a lot."

Amanda Burns

Age: 8

Grade: Third

From: United States

Brother is from: Kazakhstan. Last year, Amanda walked behind the light blue and
yellow flag of Kazakhstan because that's where her little brother, Dimitriy, is
from.

The adoption: Amanda explains that Kazakhstan "is below Russia." She says her
parents went there to adopt her brother when he was 5. When they returned, she
almost didn't get to meet him right away because "I had to go to my swim meet."
Now Dimitriy is 6 and in first grade at the school.

Sulaymane Sy

Age: 9

Grade: Fourth

From: Mauritania, a nation on the northwest coast of Africa

Long trip: Sulaymane says that when his family came to America, they had to take
a lot of planes!

Favorite part of living in America: "Hamburgers," he said. "No, I like toys. No,
movies!"

Lived in refugee camp: When Sulaymane was 5, he and his family had to leave
Mauritania because of violence. First, they went to Senegal, a country south of
Mauritania, where they lived in a refugee camp.

Job as a kid: Sulaymane and his brother, Djiby, did not go to school. Instead,
Djiby "usually took care of the sheep, and I usually stayed at home." Djiby, who
is 10, now is in fourth grade at the International Community School.


Felipe Hernandez

Age: 9

Grade: Fourth

From: Cuba, an island nation in the Caribbean about 90 miles south of Florida

Likes to study: Math

Why they came: In Cuba, the government is very strict, and many things --- like
medicine --- can be difficult to get. Felipe says his family left Cuba when he
was 6.

Sneaky flights: The Cuban government does not let people who live there come to
America, so his family had to travel to other countries before coming here.
Felipe says first they went to South America, then to Mexico, and then they came
to the United States. It took them two days to get here.

Kristine Truong

Age: 9

Grade: Fourth

From: Vietnam

Came here: At age 2

Favorite part of living in America: Six Flags and the movies

Favorite movie: "The Incredibles"

Anna Truong

Age: 6

Grade: First

Favorite part of school: Playtime

In parade, she represented: Vietnam

Andres Melgar

Age: 6

Grade: First

From: Peru

Reason they moved: Andres' family left Peru because of violence. They moved to
San Francisco in 2002 and Atlanta in 2003.

Loves to play: Xbox games.

Who's a student at . . .

Refugees from more than 13 countries go to the International Community School.

So do kids born in the United States.

They're all in kindergarten through fourth grade, and they learn from each other
--- and help each other.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fareedah Boston-Ali (left) and Khojasta Gholem-Hussein join a
parade. / JOEY IVANSCO / Staff; Photo: Anna Truong's family left Vietnam. / JOEY
IVANSCO / Staff; Photo: Andres Melgar wears a hat from Peru, his homeland. /
JOEY IVANSCO / Staff; Graphic: A map of the world points to certain countries
and lists the principal languages of each.
Cuba: Spanish
Senegal: French, Woolof, Mandingo
Mauritania: Arabic, French, Woolof
Afghanistan: Afghan, Persian, Pashtu
Vietnam: Vietnamese, French, Chinese
Pakistan: Urdu, Punjabi, Sindhi
Kazakhstan: Russian, Kazakh
/ Staff; Photo: Sulaymane Sy fled Mauritania in Africa. / CHARLOTTE TEAGLE /
Staff; Photo: Felipe Hernandez came from Cuba. / Linda Dorage; Photo: Amanda
Burns and teacher Fanta Turay share a hug. / CHARLOTTE TEAGLE / Staff; Graphic:
WANT TO HELP?
THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY SCHOOL is a charter school, so the government
doesn't pay for all of its supplies.
Right now, the school is very short on books. It also needs some other supplies.
If you'd like to donate, here is a sample of what's needed:
Hardcover books (especially nonfiction) for kids in kindergarten through fifth
grade (The school plans to add fifth grade next year.)
Glue sticks
Paintbrushes
Primary-color paints
Aprons
Pieces of fabric
A CD or cassette player
A small tape recorder
Two coat racks
DONATIONS CAN BE SENT TO: International Community School, 3260 Covington
Highway, Decatur, GA 30032
INFORMATION: 404-499-8969; Graphic: FRENCH: Bonjour (bohn-ZHOOR)
RUSSIAN: Privet (pree-VET)
VIETNAMESE: Chao ong (Dzhow ong)
ARABIC, URDU AND PERSIAN: Salaam (sah-LAHM)
SPANISH: Hola (OH-lah)

TYPE: Profiles

                Copyright 2004 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              612 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                    November 18, 2004 Thursday Final Edition

News in Brief

SOURCE: The Canadian Press

SECTION: CANADA & WORLD; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 327 words


Province spending $107m to trim lengthy wait times

TORONTO The Ontario government is spending $107 million in an effort to start
reducing lengthy wait times for some of the most critical medical procedures,
Health Minister George Smitherman said yesterday.

The province is anxious to dramatically increase the number of cancer surgeries,
heart procedures and hip and knee replacements, he told a convention of hospital
professionals.

The ministry expects the funds will allow for 805 more cardiac surgeries, 1,680
hip and knee replacements, 2,000 more cataract procedures and more cancer
surgeries and MRI/CT exams. The money will be used to pay for new equipment such
as MRI machines and CT scanners, as well as a new provincial registry to track
wait times.

Sudanese refugee camp key destination for Martin

OTTAWA The suffering in a Sudanese refugee camp could be the signature image of
Paul Martin's 10-day trip abroad where he will push for reform of global
institutions.

A visit to the camp's schoolhouse will highlight Martin's effort to promote
change and prevent humanitarian crises like the one in Sudan.

The one-day stop in strife-ridden Sudan will come in the middle of a tour of
South America and Africa.

The trip kicks off today when Martin leaves for the Asia-Pacific summit in
Santiago, Chile, where he is expected to meet Saturday with U.S. President
George W. Bush. Martin will raise the tragic civil strife in Haiti, Sudan and
Cote d'Ivoire while pressing his case for reform.

Time to reopen debate on assisted suicide: Cotler

OTTAWA Justice Minister Irwin Cotler says it's time for Parliament to reopen the
public debate on assisted suicide.

He says some recent high-profile cases in British Columbia and Quebec have
renewed questions about whether the law banning assisted suicide should be
changed.

Cotler's remarks seem poised to blow the decades-old debate over assisted
suicide wide open again.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Brief

                    Copyright 2004 Metroland Media Group Ltd


                              613 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                     October 6, 2004 Wednesday Home Edition

Terrorism-wary U.S. lets in more refugees

BYLINE: MARK BIXLER

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: Atlanta & the World; Pg. 3F

LENGTH: 520 words


The United States admitted about 52,000 refugees in the federal budget year that
ended Sept. 30, a dramatic increase following a clampdown in the wake of Sept.
11, 2001.

Visiting Atlanta last week, Secretary of State Colin Powell cited the increase
as evidence that the United States remains committed to welcoming people fleeing
persecution.

"We were determined to meet that goal so the world could see America hasn't
changed," Powell told the Atlanta Press Club. "We still reach out. We still open
our doors. We still want people here."

For several years before the terrorist attacks, the United States welcomed
68,500 to 99,500 refugees a year. It accepted 27,000 and 28,000 in the two
budget years following Sept. 11, 2001.

None of the airplane hijackers who struck on that day had entered the country as
refugees, but authorities wanted to implement safeguards to thwart would-be
terrorists.

The law defines a refugee as someone with a fear of persecution based on race,
religion, nationality, political opinion or membership in a group, such as a
social or ethnic group.

"They come with the clothes on their back," Powell said. "We marry them up with
private organizations, with churches and temples and synagogues, with Americans
who are willing to reach out and help. Some of the most wonderful stories come
out of it."

The United States has opened its doors widest to refugees from places where it
has had a deep foreign-policy interest. Nearly 80 percent of refugees admitted
from 1982 to 2002 came from former U.S. adversaries or countries in which the
United States has intervened: Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos (41 percent of all
refugees); the Soviet Union and the republics that replaced it (27 percent); and
Bosnia (8 percent), according to an analysis of refugee admission figures.

Now that pattern is changing. With the end of the Cold War and a shrinking pool
of refugees from the former Soviet Union and Vietnam, an increasing number of
those few of the world's 10 million refugees whom the United States resettles
come from Africa.

Africans accounted for about 25,000 of the 52,000 refugees the United States
accepted last year, compared with 6,000 seven years ago. They included thousands
of Somali Bantus, a group that fled violent repression in 1991 and languished in
refugee camps for years, as well as refugees from Ethiopia, Liberia and Sudan.

The federal government plans to accept 50,000 refugees in the budget year that
began Oct. 1, with 20,000 more slots that could be used in a crisis. About 40
percent would come from Africa, including more Somali Bantus and refugees from
Liberia and Burundi.

The United States is also resettling several thousand Hmong refugees from Laos
who assisted U.S. forces during the Vietnam War.

"Within three years their kids are going to be kicking soccer balls around,"
said Powell, whose parents came to this country from Jamaica. "They're going to
be speaking English.

"They're going to be Hmong-Americans just like I'm Jamaican-American,
African-American, call it what you will. Each one of you could hyphenate your
name."

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Colin Powell says the United States remains committed to
welcoming people fleeing persecution: "We still open our doors."

                Copyright 2004 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              614 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                           September 28, 2004 Tuesday

Ottawa's refugee mess

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 366 words


How long should Canada take to decide whether to grant refugee status to a man
who was convicted in Mozambique for leading a death squad that executed a
prominent, crusading journalist? A few days? Weeks? Four months?

Prime Minister Paul Martin should be asking some questions.

The case of Anibal dos Santos is one to make even staunch advocates of a
generous refugee process cringe.

Dos Santos was found guilty of killing journalist Carlos Cardoso in 2000. He got
28 years. He escaped jail and turned up in May at Pearson International Airport.
He filed a refugee claim saying he was wrongfully convicted, is appealing and
would face persecution if sent home. Months later, his case drags on. Why?

When dos Santos escaped custody before his trial in 2002 and fled to South
Africa, they promptly sent him back. Does Canada's Immigration Refugee Board
have reason to offer asylum now that he has been convicted? And how long will
this case take? There's reason to wonder.

Convicted Palestinian terrorist Mahmoud Mohammad Issa Mohammad has been here
since 1988, fighting deportation. He's now arguing he should stay because he
needs medicare.

And Holocaust denier Ernst Zundel, expelled from the United States last year,
has spent 18 months fighting deportation.

Other notorious undesirables, ordered deported, have tied up the courts with
appeals, or are missing.

Martin should order his officials to identify prominent cases, and to deal with
them quickly to prevent the system from falling into total disrepute.

Canada is a nation of immigrants, and sheer self-interest dictates that we
welcome many more, including more refugees. But we need a system that weeds out
bogus claims fast, and which expeditiously deports those deemed unwelcome here.

Canada "finalized" more than 42,000 refugee claims last year, accepting just
under 18,000. But there is a backlog of 40,000 cases. And it takes 14 months on
average to get a decision. That is too long.

And there is more. There was a big 36,000-person gap last year between the
number of removal orders issued and the confirmed removals.

Dubious claims clogging the courts. Deportation orders not executed. And
thousands of lost tracks.

Canadians deserve much better.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                  Copyright 2004 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              615 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   September 9, 2004, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Limiting refugee admissions

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 63 words

Each year a proposed ceiling is established for refugee admissions to the USA.
For fiscal year 2004 (1), the celing is set at 70,000 and is allocated to these
geographic regions:

Latin America/Caribbean: 3,500

Europe and Central Asia: 13,000

Africa: 25,000

East Asia: 6,500

Near East/South Asia: 2,000

Reserve: 20,000

1 - Oct. 1, 2003 to Sept. 30, 2004

LOAD-DATE: September 09, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Shannon Reilly and Sam Ward, USA TODAY, Source: U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services (MAP)

TYPE: SNAPSHOT

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              616 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

                          September 1, 2004 Wednesday
                               Community Edition

Community notebook;
Wesconnett school reunion Sept. 11

BYLINE: Sandy Strickland, Staff writer

SECTION: WESTSIDE; Pg. W-2

LENGTH: 467 words


A documentary on The Lost Boys of Sudan will be shown at the San Marco Theatre,
1961 San Marco Blvd., Saturday, Sept. 11, and Sunday, Sept. 12. The
award-winning film by Megan Mylan and Jon Shenk follows the journey of two
Sudanese refugees from childhood to their current life in America.

It starts at 7 p.m. followed by a special performance by several refugees living
in Jacksonville and a question-and-answer session.

Thousands of boys and young men fled the war-torn African nation, traveling for
more than two years and 1,000 miles to find refuge. About 4,000 were granted
refugee status in the United States in 2001. With the help of the United Nations
and Lutheran Social Services, 100 came to Jacksonville.

Fresh Ministries has established the Alliance for the Lost Boys of Sudan, a
foundation to assist with medical, dental and educational needs of refugees here
and still in Africa. Proceeds from the showing will benefit the alliance's
programs.

Admission is $15, and advanced tickets are required. For information or to order
tickets, call 363-9821.

-- Wesconnett Elementary School is celebrating its 23rd annual reunion with a
covered-dish luncheon and time for reminiscing from 10:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.
Saturday, Sept. 11.

The tradition began in 1982 when Jim Faulkner invited his classmates, teachers
and principals to a reunion at his Bradford County home. It mushroomed to
include people who had grown up in the Southwest Jacksonville community during
the 1930s and '40s.

When the gathering got too big for his house, it moved to the classic red brick
school at 5710 Wesconnett Blvd.

Those attending the reunion are asked to bring old school-related photos if they
have them, said Patricia Carter, who is helping plan the event.

They also are asked to bring a covered dish for the luncheon, which starts at
11:30 a.m. Paper goods, drinks and serving utensils will be provided. There will
be a $4 donation to cover expenses. For information call 771-0859, 781-3870 or
284-9627.

-- Recently retired Jacksonville educators will be honored by the Duval County
Retired Teachers Association Thursday at the Mary Singleton Center, 150 E. First
St. Social hour is at 9:20 a.m. followed by the meeting at 10:15 a.m.

Charles "Skip" Cramer, newly appointed executive director of Jacksonville
Community Council Inc., will speak on the theme "Me, Myself and Others." The
council works to improve the quality of life in Northeast Florida by convening
groups of residents to identify significant community issues each year for
in-depth study.

For information call Nathaniel Davis at 354-0750.

Submit items for Westside Community Notebook to Sandy Strickland at The Florida
Times-Union, P.O. Box 1949, Jacksonville, FL 32231, or fax 359-4478. For
details, e-mail sandy.strickland@jacksonville.com or call 359-4128.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2004 The Florida Times-Union


                              617 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                     August 27, 2004 Friday, Final Edition

Congolese Tutsis take their case to Washington;
Portland's Congolese Tutsi community hopes to draw U.S. attention to killings in
a Tutsi refugee camp.

BYLINE: KELLEY BOUCHARD Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & STATE; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 452 words


More than 20 Congolese Tutsis from Portland plan to join hundreds of their
countrymen today in Washington, D.C., for a daylong demonstration against the
recent slaughter of their people in a refugee camp in the central African
country of Burundi.

They rented four cars and planned to leave by caravan late Thursday. They hoped
to arrive in the nation's capital by late morning, when the protest is expected
to start at the Congolese embassy and continue at the White House in the
afternoon.

Tutsis want U.S. officials to publicly condemn the Aug. 13 attack that killed
more than 160 refugees in a U.N. camp in Gatumba, just over the Congolese border
in Burundi. They also want to protect Tutsis who remain in the camp and help
them return safely to the Democratic Republic of Congo.

"We want the protection of these refugees and we want the United States to
participate in solving this conflict in the Congo," said Georges Budagu, 30, an
organizer of Maine's Tutsi delegation to the protest.

Tutsis in Canada have scheduled a similar protest today in Ottawa, Ont.

There are more than 150 Tutsis in the Portland area. Most are political refugees
who arrived during the last few years as a result of widespread civil war in
central Africa. About 100 of them are of the Banyamulenge ethnic group,
originating in the Congo.

It was Banyamulenge Tutsis who were killed this month during a nighttime raid on
the Gatumba camp, where they had been living since June. Hutu extremists burned
houses and hacked bodies to death with machetes. Many victims were women and
children. Three of Budagu's cousins were killed. Others lost dozens of extended
family and friends.

This tragedy a world away has rallied a people unaccustomed to public protest.

"In our country, it is not our habit to speak out," said Budagu, who came to
Portland in 2002 and works as an occupancy specialist for Avesta Housing. "With
this genocide, we can't keep quiet. It's the only option we have."

Reuters reported Wednesday that U.S. officials are unlikely to support a U.N.
appeal that would increase the number of peacekeeping troops in the Congo from
10,800 to 23,900. The report said the Congo mission will cost $746 million this
year, with the United States paying about one-quarter of the U.N. peacekeeping
tab. Adding an estimated $160 million would make the Congo force the most
expensive U.N. mission.

Maine's congressional delegation has voiced its support for the Tutsis. Peace
Action Maine is urging people to write letters to their congressmen and to
Secretary of State Colin Powell calling for action. The Gatumba camp, which
contained more than 1,700 Congolese Tutsis, has been moved farther into Burundi.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 2004 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.


                              618 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                             August 6, 2004 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Lost Boys find America

BYLINE: JEFF FARANCE - FILM CRITIC

SECTION: SECTION E; Pg. 7E

LENGTH: 386  words


What they thought was the Promised Land turned out to be infinitely better but
not a panacea for the Lost Boys of Sudan. The documentary directed and produced
by Megan Mylan and Jon Shenk (Shenk also was the cinematographer) follows two
orphans from the civil war- torn African nation. Peter Dut and Santino Chuor
havent been alive as long as deadly strife has rent Sudan and they are in their
20s, though both are uncertain of their exact ages. With thousands of others,
they escaped to a refugee camp in Kenya, where they were chosen to come to
America. Some 4,000 lost boys now are living here, being assimilated into the
U.S. culture in widely varying degrees. These truly are strangers in a strange
land. Santino lives in Houston, where he works in a factory. He takes his
driving exam after having been cited for driving without a license. Peter
started in Houston, but left (without telling Santino) for Kansas in order to
get an education. Now, though much older than his fellow students, he is in high
school in Olathe, Kan. Hes surrounded by deeply religious people. For their
geographic and other situational differences, Santino and Peter find
similarities: negotiating American bureaucracies and appliances, working almost
endlessly to just pay basic expenses. Peter has two jobs. Hes moving up in
Wal-Mart from retrieving carts to clerking in the garden center. At night, he
parks cars at a casino. Hes hoping for a basketball scholarship to go to
college. Santino works nights in a factory and plans to attend community
college. When they call back to Africa, theyre asked why they arent sending more
money from their newfound riches. After a year, lost boys from across America
have a reunion in Washington, D.C.

Back in (Sudan), we thought that America was great but now its clear theres no
heaven on earth, Peter says. The film concludes with statistics: In 2001, the
United States gave refuge to 70,000 of 15 million displaced persons worldwide,
including the nearly 4,000 Lost Boys of Sudan. Boys 2 Men LOST BOYS OF SUDAN
(NR)*** 1/2 87 minutesCAST: Santino Chuor, Peter Dut.CONTENT INFORMATION: some
adult language, themes.SHOWING AT: N&S Cinemas, 321 Bill France Blvd., Daytona
Beach, today through Thursday, a Cinematique of Daytona presentation. For
showtimes, call the theater, (386) 323-9807.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Caption: Peter Santino prepares to leave friends and relatives in his
native Africa to take refuge in America in the documentary on refugees, Lost
Boys of Sudan.Shadow Distribution

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2004 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2004 News-Journal Corporation


                              619 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              August 5, 2004 Thursday Five Star Late Lift Edition

The new world

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 326 words


IMMIGRATION

ANYONE BEMOANING America's place in the world or despondent that poverty's
crushing heel has denied him a high-definition wide-screen plasma TV, should
review Post-Dispatch reporter Eun-Kyung Kim's account Tuesday of Aden Kabir's
first days in the United States. Mr. Kabir is a Somali refugee who was resettled
in St. Louis last month along with his wife and four children. Ms. Kim
accompanied him and a caseworker from the International Institute as he made his
first trip to an American supermarket, a Shop 'N Save on Gravois Avenue.

"I have to speak the truth," he told her later. "I have never seen anything as
good as that."

Twenty-four hours earlier, Mr. Kabir had left a refugee camp in Kenya where he
had lived for 11 years. As a Bantu tribesman from eastern Africa whose ancestors
had been kidnapped into Somali slavery in the 19th century, Mr. Kabir had been
an outcast in his own land.

He lost his farm and a son to the gruesome Somali civil war of the late 1980s
and early 1990s and fled hundreds of miles across the border to Kenya.

The refugee camp there was small improvement, a place where rape and other forms
of violence were common, a place where such food as there was was cooked over
open fires.

With the intervention of the U.S. government and the help of the International
Institute, the Kabir family was flown around the world and was plunked down in a
South St. Louis apartment, a place with a microwave oven and a refrigerator they
could stock with the unimaginable bounty of Shop 'N Save.

For the first time in their lives, the Kabir family had walls around them. They
had electricity and hot and cold running water, and the water was clean. They
had toilets instead of pit trenches, mattresses with sheets and blankets instead
of beds of husks and twigs.

It must have seemed like a miracle, and indeed it is. Sometimes it helps to be
reminded of the miracle that is the United States of America.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: editorial

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              620 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                              June 14, 2004 Monday

'Here is better,' refugee from Somalia says of S.L.

BYLINE: Elaine Jarvik Deseret Morning News

LENGTH: 718 words


Downstairs, the clock on the living room wall says 10:30, but that's just
wishful thinking. The real time is 4:30 a.m. Downtown, in the Little America
Hotel, the guests are still sleeping.

Daud Eftin rises in the dark, does his morning prayers, washes up, puts on his
uniform: black pants and vest, a crisp white shirt, a tie. He goes into the shed
outside the apartment, gets his bicycle, says goodbye to his mother. Now he is
riding swiftly through the apartment complex, his white helmet and the sleeves
of his white shirt barely visible against the dark blue sky.

At 18, Eftin is helping to support his parents and six siblings by working at
the Little America, where he vacuums the halls and cleans bathrooms.

Hotels and vacuum cleaners and bathrooms were among the long list of things
Eftin had never seen before arriving in Salt Lake City last December. Eftin and
his family are Somali Bantus. Like other Somali refugees, his family fled his
country's civil war 11 years ago. But the Bantus, who were captured as slaves
from other parts of Africa and taken to Somalia 200 years go, have long been the
most marginalized of all Somalis, discriminated in jobs and formal education. In
Somalia they lived in remote rural regions, where even doors were a luxury.

Bantus like Eftin and his family have lived in refugee camps in Kenya for more
than a decade, where there was no electricity, no running water, no doorknobs.
So the learning curve has been huge for the 100 Bantus who have been relocated
to the Salt Lake Valley so far.

But here is Eftin, sitting in the employee break room of Little America on a
recent Saturday morning. He reaches into his pocket and pulls out a cell phone.

"Probably I was so excited when I got a cell phone the first day," he says.

That's how things are. One day your family leaves a third-world life, boards an
airplane, arrives in America, and before you know it you can't imagine your life
without text messaging. If you're the mother, you soon long for a washing
machine, when before you had never had running water. Macromedia Flash file
Listen to Daud Eftin -- his story, his voice Requires Macromedia Flash Player.

In the Little America break room all the other workers are speaking Vietnamese.
Eftin sits by himself, a quiet, serious young man waiting for his 6 a.m. shift
to begin. Later, after work, he will take TRAX back to where he then bicycles to
home.

He lives with his mother and father and six brothers and sisters in an apartment
complex of stark two-story townhouses off 500 East in South Salt Lake. His
mother, Fatuma Yerow, has decorated her home in the Bantu way, covering the
walls with colorful fabric. In a strange country, with limited resources, you
have to make do, though; so Eftin's mother has decorated the room with
hand-me-down bed sheets, including one featuring Sesame St. characters. The
effect -- Ernie and Big Bird, plus a string of colored lights -- is festive.

Eftin turns 19 in July. But like many refugees from Africa, who arrived without
birth certificates, he left his actual age behind when he was relocated to
America. Like them, Eftin was randomly assigned the same new date of birth: Jan.
1. Because they rarely have calendars, says Aden Batar, a Somali who is director
of immigrant and refugee settlement at Catholic Community Services, the Bantus
often will mark their birthday by a season. "It was rainy and hot," a Bantu
might say.

By the end of the year, estimates Batar, the Salt Lake Valley will have a total
of 225 Somali Bantus.

Eftin learned to read and write in the refugee camps, and before moving to Utah
had actually become a teacher himself in the Kakuma Camp in Kenya. Most of the
refugees have no jobs in the camps, so the idea of steady work is also something
to get used to in America. Eftin's father, Abdullahi Kulo, works at Farmland
Industries, one of many sub-Saharans working in the frigid rooms of the
meatpacking plant. Like all Somali Bantus, Eftin took the last name of his
father's father.

Eftin says he would like to become a doctor some day. In his free time he
studies for his high school equivalency exam and, more recently, for his
driver's exam. Catholic Community Services is helping him get a car.

"Here is better than Somalia in all the ways," Eftin says about his new life.
E-mail: jarvik@desnews.com

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2004 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                              621 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                       May 10, 2004 Monday Final Edition

Not gay enough

SOURCE: Calgary Herald

SECTION: Opinion; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 192 words

How gay does one have to be to be granted refugee status in Canada? Really gay,
according to Canada's Immigration and Refugee Board, which recently rejected a
gay Mexican man's request for asylum because he was not "visibly effeminate."

The board said Fernando Enrique Rivera, 30, could blend into Mexican society
because his gestures did not reveal him as being gay. Rivera feared he would
lose his job as a statistician with Puerto Vallarta's macho police force when
co-workers threatened to expose his homosexuality.

The refugee board made the right decision, but for the wrong reasons. Asylum for
gay people should not be made on the subjective "gaydar" of board members, but
on whether a claimant faces "danger of torture, risk to life, or a risk of cruel
and unusual treatment or punishment," according to international conventions.
Australia, South Africa, Britain, and the United States have all granted gay men
and women refugee status based on such criteria.

Job discrimination based on sexual orientation has been illegal in Mexico since
April 2003. Rivera needs to exhaust all avenues back home before seeking asylum
in Canada.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

               Copyright 2004 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              622 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                              May 8, 2004 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Refugee Mother Gets 2nd Chance At Alpha House

BYLINE: LENORA LAKE, Tribune correspondent

SECTION: SOUTH TAMPA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 567 words

DATELINE: SOUTH TAMPA


RED CROSS LOOKING FOR FAMILY

By LENORA LAKE

Tribune correspondent

SOUTH TAMPA -- When Isatu Sankoh stepped off a plane from a refugee camp in
Ghana a year ago, she didn't know she would celebrate her first Mother's Day on
Sunday.

Sankoh, 19, plans to attend church with a friend and spend time with her
5-month-old daughter, Fransatu. Her daughter, named for her husband, Frank, and
herself, was born while Sankoh was a resident in Alpha House's maternity home.

Sankoh, of Sierra Leone in West Africa, and her daughter now are in transitional
housing, also sponsored by Alpha House. The 23-year-old facility at 201 S.
Tampania Ave. serves pregnant women in crisis. Sankoh's husband remains in the
refugee camp, hoping to join her here.

Sankoh was 12 when rebel forces overran her home in Sierra Leone. They came for
her father, a policeman, and mother, a businesswoman.

"They beat me and raped me," she said.

The rebels kidnapped her two sisters.

Sankoh also was kidnapped but eventually made her way to a beach where she was
rescued by a ship. She ended up in a refugee camp of about 100,000 people in
Ghana.

She lost contact with her family -- her brother avoided kidnap because he was at
school when the rebels came -- but heard last month that her parents might be in
a refugee camp. The American Red Cross is trying to locate them.

While at the camp, she met Frank, now 21. He arrived there at age 18 and had
been a student and farmer in Liberia.

They had been married six months when she was selected for immigration. She said
it was difficult to leave, but the opportunity was too good to miss. She did not
know she was pregnant.

"I could have gone to Canada, but I choose America," said Sankoh, who speaks
Creole, English and some French. "I like the people here. They are nice."

She was sponsored by the national Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Services.

Lutheran Services Florida, an affiliate, found a sponsoring church and set
Sankoh up in an apartment and helped her find work at Busch Gardens. When she
learned she was pregnant with medical complications, she was referred to Alpha
House, said Danielle Kearney, director of the Florida program, which sponsors
about 250 refugees a year.

"We have such admiration for her," said Jennifer Peirce, a counselor at Alpha
House, "She was 12, in a refugee camp with no family, and she was able to
survive."

At Alpha House, Sankoh is studying for a General Educational Development diploma
and hopes to be a nurse and perhaps return to Africa.

"We think she is a brave young woman," Kearney said. "She was looking for peace,
freedom, and I think that is the one thing Lutheran Services could do for her.
Now she is looking to the future."

Lutheran Services also is working to bring her husband here.

Sankoh calls her husband occasionally, telling him of their daughter's progress.

"I feel good because she is like everything to me," she said.

(CHART) HOW TO HELP

Alpha House needs donations of money, maternity and baby clothes, personal care
items for babies and women, towels, diapers, baby formula, strollers and grocery
store gift certificates.

Donations can be made at Alpha House, 201 S. Tampania Ave., between 8:30 a.m.
and 4:30 p.m. Monday through Friday. For information, call (813) 875-2024.

Correspondent Lenora Lake can be reached at (813) 977-2854, Ext. 24.

Copyright © 2004, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART
Tribune photo by GARY RINGS Isatu Sankoh, 19, with daughter Fransatu, is
studying for the GED at Alpha House. Sankoh is from Sierra Leone, West Africa.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved


                              623 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                     March 10, 2004 Wednesday Home Edition

Updates

BYLINE: MONI BASU, MARK BIXLER

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: Atlanta & the World; Pg. 3F

LENGTH: 424 words


Refugee crisis in Chad investigated

Increasing concern about refugees in Central Africa has attracted the attention
of the U.S. State Department; the U.S. Committee for Refugees, a Washington
advocacy organization; and CARE, the international relief organization with U.S.
headquarters in Atlanta.

The State Department said it had set aside $9.3 million to help at least 110,000
refugees who had entered Chad to flee fighting in western Sudan. Militias
supported by Sudan's government "continue to attack and burn undefended
villages, murdering and raping the inhabitants, and forcing survivors into
desperate flight," according to a State Department statement.

CARE representatives visited Chad as part of an emergency response. And the U.S.
Committee for Refugees said roughly 700,000 people in the Darfur region were
displaced within Sudan, in addition to those in Chad, by militia attacks.

'Marimba queen' at Japan consulate

Japan's consul general in Atlanta, George Hisaeda, played host to Nanae Mimura,
the "Queen of Marimba," on Feb. 27 at his residence.

Guests included state schools Superintendent Kathy Cox.

Hisaeda, in his welcoming remarks, spoke of the importance of music and culture
in narrowing the gap between countries, according to a statement from the
consulate.


Signed baseball helps Carter Center

The Carter Center hit a home run at its annual auction with a baseball signed by
Cuban leader Fidel Castro. The autographed ball, acquired by former President
Jimmy Carter during his historic 2002 trip to Cuba, fetched $175,000. The
next-highest item was a portrait depicting Carter's handshake with Egyptian
President Anwar Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin at the 1978
signing of the Camp David Accords. In all, the 12th annual "Winter Weekend"
auction Feb. 28 in Snowbird, Utah, raised $823,946 to help support Carter Center
programs in 65 countries.


GSU professor elected to post

David Bruce, a professor at the Institute of International Business at Georgia
State University's Robinson College of Business, has been elected president of
the Georgia-Pernambuco Partners of the Americas.

Georgia has been the sister state of Pernambuco in Brazil, which is home to
Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, since 1968.

Volunteer organizations in both states coordinate a wide variety of programs
related to economic development, social and cultural affairs and business.

--- Compiled by Moni Basu (mbasu@ajc.com) and Mark Bixler (mbixler@ajc.com)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Briefs

                Copyright 2004 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              624 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

                     February 20, 2004 Friday Final Edition

Devoted advocate for refugees

SOURCE: New York Times

BYLINE: WOLFGANG SAXON

SECTION: News; Pg. E7

LENGTH: 190 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK

Mary Frances Diaz, the executive director of the Women's Commission for Refugee
Women and Children, died Feb. 12 at Columbia Presbyterian Centre of New
York-Presbyterian Hospital. She was 42.

The cause was pancreatic cancer, the commission announced.

Diaz's organization, a nongovernmental, volunteer group that works to provide a
voice for women and children in war zones, advocates for refugees before the
United Nations and around the world.

Mary Diaz had led the group since 1994 and continued her work until late last
year.

The commission, working under the auspices of the International Rescue
Committee, was founded in 1989 by the actress Liv Ullman. Diaz became its chief
investigator, strategist, watchdog and lobbyist.

She deployed volunteers in Africa, the Middle East and South America. She often
went herself as well, visiting refugees in Bosnia and Burundi.

Mary Diaz was born in Newport News, Va., and grew up in suburban Pottstown, Pa.

She focused on international relations at Brown, graduating in 1982. She took a
job at a Philadelphia television station, and gradually shifted into her work
with refugees.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary

               Copyright 2004 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              625 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 18, 2004 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mary F. Diaz, 42, Head of Commission For War Refugees

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 340 words


Mary Frances Diaz, the executive director of the Women's Commission for Refugee
Women and Children, died last Thursday at Columbia Presbyterian Center of New
York-Presbyterian Hospital. She was 42 and lived on the Upper West Side of
Manhattan.

The cause was pancreatic cancer, the commission announced.

Ms. Diaz's organization, a volunteer group that works to provide a voice for
women and children in war zones, is a nongovernmental group that advocates for
refugees before the United Nations and around the world.

Mary Diaz had led the group since 1994 and continued her work until late last
year.

The commission, working under the auspices of the International Rescue
Committee, was founded in 1989 by the actress Liv Ullman. Ms. Diaz became its
chief investigator, strategist, watchdog and lobbyist.

She deployed volunteers in Africa, the Middle East, South America and trouble
spots like Kosovo and Afghanistan. She often went to the scene herself, visiting
refugees in Bosnia and Burundi fleeing to the relative safety in Tanzania.

Mary Diaz was born in Newport News, Va., and grew up in suburban Pottstown, Pa.

She focused on international relations at Brown, graduating in 1982. She took a
job at a Philadelphia television station writing news late in the day, which
left her time for volunteer work helping refugees to settle in the city. Her
calling gradually shifted from the newsroom to the outside world. She studied
administration, planning and social policy at the Harvard Graduate School of
Education, receiving a master's degree in international education in 1988. She
became director of refugee and immigration services for Catholic Charities in
Boston before becoming head of the Women's Commission in New York.

Ms. Diaz is survived by her partner, Tom Ferguson; her mother, Bertha Diaz of
Pottstown; two brothers, Dr. Philip Diaz of Columbus, Ohio, and Dr. Joseph Diaz
of Barrington, R.I.; and two sisters, Teresa Diaz of Reading, Pa., and
Bernadette Diaz of Oak Park, Ill.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: Mary Frances Diaz

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company


                              626 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           January 28, 2004 Wednesday

Refugee family to resettle in St. Petersburg

BYLINE: KRISTIE A. MARTINEZ

SECTION: NEIGHBORHOOD TIMES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 826 words

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG


Their home has been a canvas tent in a sandy refugee camp in Kenya.

They're accustomed to cooking their food over open fires and digging their own
latrines. They have no written language and have lived their lives as social
outcasts and victims of oppression.

The universe will soon change for a Somali Bantu family that will be settling in
St. Petersburg. They were to arrive late Tuesday night.

Soon they will be learning about microwaves, refrigerators, indoor plumbing and
all the other modern conveniences Americans take for granted.

"The transition is going to be huge for them," said Jessica Cabness, coordinator
of the Refugee Mentors Ministry of St. Joseph's Catholic Church in St.
Petersburg.

The Bantu family, made up of a couple and their five children, ages 1, 3, 5, 7
and 9, is being resettled in a home in the city's Midtown area. They are among
the first of the estimated 300 Bantu refugees slated to come to the Tampa Bay
area this year and next as part of 12,000 Bantus being relocated to 50 cities
across the United States. Local volunteers have been rushing around in the past
few days renting a house, buying food, moving furniture - and wondering how
they'll communicate with the family.

Officials at Catholic Charities still haven't located a caseworker who can speak
Swahili, one of three African languages the family may speak.

"In the beginning, we may just communicate with hand signals and pointing," said
Mary Ann Smelter, a member of the refugee ministry who plans to spend this
morning with the family.

Mentors from St. Joseph's will visit the Bantu family twice every day for about
a month to help them settle into their new home and learn English.

The Bantus are descendants of East African tribes traded as slaves by Arab
sultans in the 1800s. Though slavery ended in 1930, the Bantus continued to be
treated as second-class citizens in Somalia, a country on the eastern horn of
Africa, because they are culturally, linguistically and physically different
from dominant-clan Somalis.

In 1991 and 1992, during the civil war in Somalia, many Bantus were killed,
robbed or raped, according to international news reports. Many fled to northern
Kenyan refugee camps, where they have been waiting to be resettled.

Tampa Bay was chosen as a resettlement area because it has many agencies that
can address refugees' needs, said Jose Fernandez, director of immigration and
refugee services at Catholic Charities in St. Petersburg. Catholic Charities has
resettled refugees from Vietnam, Cuba, Russia and the former Yugoslavia, and
will resettle 202 Somali Bantus. Staff members of Catholic Charities will link
the Bantus to various social services, medical care, employment and schools in
the area.

Members of the refugee ministry at St. Joseph's have collected furniture and
household items for the family, located a resettlement home and arranged to
provide transportation and food for the Bantu family. They also will help the
Bantu family learn the basics necessary to navigate everyday life in St.
Petersburg, Smelter said.

She and the other refugee mentors will teach the family such things as how to
shop for groceries and how to use the city bus system. The Somali Bantus are
unlike other refugees because they do not have a written language.

"It's a real concern that the Somali Bantu refugees may be preliterate," Cabness
said.

But the lack of a written language will not keep the Bantus from learning to
speak English. The Pinellas County school system is preparing to help the Bantu
children in programs for non-English speakers. Various social agencies are ready
to help the adults learn English, Cabness said.

Locally, the resettlement coordinators at St. Joseph's came together out of a
shared concern for immigrants, said Cabness, the group's coordinator.

When she was in college, Cabness traveled to Africa with Operation Crossroads
Africa, a forerunner of the Peace Corps.

"The issue of immigration resonates with me," said Cabness, a gerontologist and
social work professor at USF St. Petersburg.

"I've lived abroad - and have been to West Africa, so I know the conditions that
people live in in developing countries. I know what it's like to be a foreigner
in a strange land.  And most of all, I've always experienced the kindness of
strangers in other countries."

Smelter, of the St. Joseph's refugee ministry, said she is used to working with
the poor and that she has visited very poor nations, particularly in South
America.

The St. Joseph's ministry plans to assist Catholic Charities in helping the
Bantu family for six months to a year, depending on the family's needs, Cabness
said. "We will try to help them become self-sufficient beginning in the fourth
month," she said.

- Kristie A. Martinez reported this story for the Neighborhood News Bureau, a
program of the Department of Journalism and Media Studies at the University of
South Florida St. Petersburg.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Publishing Company


                              627 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

                     January 6, 2004 Tuesday Final Edition

Teens caught in the refugee maze

SOURCE: Wiretap

BYLINE: CHIKA ODUAH

SECTION: Youth Zone; Pg. D10

LENGTH: 553 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Ga.

"When I came (to the United States), I used to cry. In front of my (classmates),
I used to just put my head down and cry," says Belize Munezero, 14, a refugee
from Burundi in central Africa.

Belize fits the definition of refugee used by the the U.S. Committee For
Refugees: She fled to a different country because of a fear of persecution based
on race, religion, nationality, social group or political opinion, or armed
conflict and lack of a durable solution.

Teen refugees must learn to adjust in schools while coping with the fresh
memories of life in refugee camps.

Shpresa Aliu, a 13-year-old Albanian refugee, lived in a camp for five months.

"I saw a lot of tents, people, and crying. I always saw mean people in the army
just looking. It was muddy, very, very sad," Shpresa says.

Teen refugees say no one leaves a refugee camp with the same mindset they had
coming in.

"I remember everything," says Fouad Saleh, 17, who left his native Iraq and
lived in a refugee camp in Syria for nine years before moving to the United
States.

"I remember poor people with nothing and they didn't have any work. It was
really hard because people were dying without food, and people were going back
to their country."

"There is a feeling of hopelessness," explains Bryan Hudson, youth co-ordinator
with Refugee Family Services, an Atlanta based community centre for refugees.

Refugees are escaping life-threatening situations. In refugee camps, the sheer
desperation provokes people to use creativity, stretching their imagination to
relieve the morbid atmosphere.

"I remember some kids just playing, trying to have fun," Shpresa recalls.

Belize has similar memories. "Every Saturday (we) would play drums. (We) hated
what was going on in the country so (we) would try to make it happy."

There were an estimated 10.3 million refugees worldwide at the beginning of
2003, according to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. That means
that there is a new refugee every 21 seconds, says Amnesty International.

The general public is not aware of the large population of refugees. Refugee
Republic, an Internet-based advocacy organization, explains that refugees lack
self-representation because the mainstream media do not pay attention to their
struggles.

And because teen refugees do not have much of a voice, North American teens are
not able to hear them.

"A majority of refugees are coming into this country with just the clothes on
their back," explains Glory Kilanko, a Nigerian refugee and director of Women
Watch Afrika, a nonprofit women's organization.

Not only are North American teens not educated about refugees, but school
officials don't always try to identify with refugee students either.

"Teachers and administrators are looking at these people as refugees first and
teenagers second," Bryan says.

With all the psychological, mental and emotional trauma, teenage refugees can
still be who they are: teens. They can laugh and be themselves, but this will
happen only if other teens help.

We can do our part to assist the teen refugees that we meet and learn from each
other. Treat everyone the way you want to be treated. There is no other way to
say it. Live to learn, and respect all human beings.

Chika Oduah is a senior at Chamblee Charter High School in Atlanta, Ga.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2004 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              628 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 3, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Refugee Numbers Decline

BYLINE:  By JOHN FILES

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 299 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 2


For the second year in a row, the number of refugees settling in the United
States fell to less than half of the government's projections, again in large
part because of stricter guidelines for security clearances that were instituted
after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.

The State Department said on Thursday that about 28,000 refugees had been
settled in the United States since Sept. 30, 2002, with more than half of them
arriving in the last four months.

The government had hoped to settle 70,000 refugees by the end of the fiscal
year, which ended on Sept. 30. In fiscal year 2002, only about 27,000 of the
70,000 expected actually arrived, the lowest number in 25 years.

Tens of thousands of refugees approved for resettlement in the United States
have been stranded in camps in Africa, Asia and the Middle East as officials
struggle to reduce the backlog of security clearances, which include F.B.I. and
C.I.A. reviews of names of refugees fleeing countries considered breeding
grounds for terrorists. The checks have yet to identify a suspected terrorist.

Refugee interviews have been delayed by civil conflicts and fraud in
resettlement claims in West Africa and by concerns that terrorists were
operating in refugee camps in East Africa. Africa is one of America's largest
sources of refugees.

Officials in the department's Bureau of Population, Refugees and Migration who
oversee the refugee program said this year's shortfall in resettlements was also
a result of "positive changes in the world affecting refugee populations,"
saying that "the dramatic changes in Iraq and Afghanistan are making it possible
for Iraqi and Afghan refugees to return to their home countries." Large-scale
repatriations are also occurring in Sierra Leone and Angola, officials said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              629 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                    September 30, 2003 Tuesday Home Edition

Jackson pushes aid for Liberia

BYLINE: ERNIE SUGGS

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: News; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 437 words


With so much attention being paid to rebuilding Iraq and Afghanistan, the Rev.
Jesse Jackson is urging the White House to focus also on a distant U.S.
relative: Liberia.

The civil rights leader will kick off a nationwide relief program today in
Atlanta to raise millions of dollars in humanitarian aid for the West African
nation. Liberia is trying to recover from the ravages of years of civil war.

"Liberia represents America's Africa policy," said Jackson, president of the
Rainbow/PUSH Coalition. "All the focus on Iraq and Afghanistan and the ignoring
of Africa and Liberia show how America thinks."

The country that is now Liberia was settled in the 1820s by freeborn American
blacks and freed slaves. It became an independent republic in 1847, adopting a
constitution and flag similar to those of the United States.

But during the past two decades, civil war and economic collapse have left
thousands dead and turned the populace into starving refugees, who are
terrorized by marauding bands of teenage soldiers.

In mid-August, international pressure and attacks by rebel armies forced
longtime President Charles Taylor into exile in Nigeria. On Sept. 19, the U.N.
Security Council voted unanimously to establish a peacekeeping mission of up to
15,000 troops for Liberia.

Jackson said that is not enough, adding that Washington should be doing what he
is trying to do.

"Our government should be sending aid," Jackson said. "They need medicine,
books, infrastructure. They need the same thing they need in Iraq, except less
of it."

Bush has requested $87 billion to rebuild Iraq.

Jackson said he is not sure how much Liberia would need in U.S. aid.

George Kieh, chairman of another aid effort, said his organization, the
Atlanta-based Liberia Relief Fund Inc., is spearheading the "Buy a Bag of Rice"
campaign for the troubled country. The group hopes to raise enough money to send
1,000 bags of rice to Liberia.

"We are mobilizing our efforts and it is going fairly well," said Kieh, who also
is chairman of Morehouse College's political science department. "We haven't
raised as much as we liked to, but it is better to do something than nothing."

Kieh said his organization, which is not affiliated with Rainbow/PUSH, has not
yet sent any supplies to Liberia.

Jackson will lay out his plans at 10 a.m. today at the Rainbow/PUSH Coalition
office, 100 Auburn Ave., in the Atlanta Life Building.

"If the focus of his efforts is to organize resources, it would be greatly
welcome," Kieh said. "There is a very urgent need for humanitarian assistance.
It is a welcome effort."

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jesse Jackson says the U.S. eyes aid for Afghanistan and Iraq,
but has little interest in Liberia.

                Copyright 2003 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              630 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The Sunday Herald

                               September 28, 2003

Why the door closed on those huddled masses;THE AMERICAN COLLAPSE September 11
jitters have sealed the borders of a nation made great by immigration. Magin
Mckenna reports on the fallout

BYLINE: Magin Mckenna

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 936 words


For years, America has been one of the world's most committed havens for
refugees, annually accepting hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese anti
-communists, Soviet Jews, Iranian Christians and Africans fleeing ethnic strife.
But that reputation is fading uncomfortably.

Murmurs in Washington speak of the US refugee programme entering a critical
stage of decline as the security-conscious US continues its struggles with Iraq
and Afghanistan and squares up to a potentially growing number of military
conflicts.

Last year the US admitted 28,000 refugees, a sum less than half of a 70,000
ceiling set by the Bush administration. In the period from October 2002 until
May 2003 it admitted just 8864. It is feared fewer than 20,000 refugees will be
admitted this year.

"Collapse is not too strong a word to describe the state of the programme," said
Kathleen Newland, head of the Washington-based Migration Policy Institute, an
independent organisation that monitors refugees. "There's a sense of enormous
frustration."

Thousands of people worldwide have found themselves ensnared in precarious
conditions overseas as the refugee programme has ground to a halt. Now,
countless refugees wait in the US for good news about reunions with lost
relatives that drizzles in - if it comes at all.

Historically, the US admitted an average of 1% of the world's refugees annually
and led the world in the number of refugees admitted to a nation per population.
This year, said Newland, the US is expected to receive a 10th of that amount.

"The fact that the United States, which resettles more refugees than any country
in the world, is being faced with this crisis is a human tragedy," said Ellen
Mercer, senior programme officer with the Immigration and Refugee Services of
America. "The whole image of the United States as being a safe haven for those
who have suffered around the world is going to change."

Government officials blame the drop in refugees in part on security measures.
Male refugees from many Muslim or Arab countries must pass a review conducted by
the FBI and CIA known as a Security Advisory Opinion (SAO). It is a process
already heavily bogged down by applications for tourist, student and immigration
visas.

Thirty-three nationalities require security checks. Layer after layer of checks
and cases of what the State Department deems "widespread fraud in Africa" are
also forcing an already slowed programme to a limp, said a senior State
Department official.

"The numbers we did in the past are virtually impossible," added the official,
speaking on condition of anonymity. "We don't have the resources. We don't have
the people. We cannot process the tens of thousands of SAO checks that would
restore the programme to 70,000 - this administration doesn't speak with one
voice. There are people in Homeland Security that want the programme to go away
altogether. We can't get the INS (Immigration and Naturalisation Service) to do
interviews in southern Africa. This is a very tricky business."

Across the US, refugees wait for news that relatives who were approved to
resettle before September 11, 2001, are going to be given permission to fly in.
"Families have essentially been torn apart," said Newland.

Living alone in the upstate New York city of Syracuse, Sudanese refugee John Dau
has been waiting for his family for more than a year. His story began 15 years
ago when, in the middle of a terrifying November night, invaders pillaged his
village. In a haze of bullets and flames, he became one of Sudan's thousands of
"lost boys" - a name taken from the motherless band of children in JM Barrie's
Peter Pan.

Dau grew up in refugee camps and believed he was an orphan. In 2000, he was
airlifted to the US as part of a mission to resettle 3000 lost boys. "I believed
my greatest dream had come true," he says. Now he is not so sure. After more
than a decade of loneliness, grief and anguish Dau has learned that the family
he lost during that fearful night has been found living in Uganda.

"I thought, 'Did I dream it? How can this be true?"' A smile illuminates his
face as he describes receiving a handwritten letter in October 2001 that assured
him of his family's survival. "I said: 'It's like a miracle.' I called my
caseworker in Uganda and said I will do anything for you to bring them today to
the United States. Anything."

In March, responding to growing threats of terrorism abroad, the INS halted all
interviews in Africa and dashed Dau's hopes of being reunited with his family.
In the past six months, interview after interview has been cancelled and Dau has
lost hope of ever seeing his kin again.

"I'm torn apart. I have come so far. I'm not certain of their safety," he says.
"How horrible it would be to have survived all this and lose them again?"

Kual lives around the corner from Dau in an apartment he shares with three other
lost boys. The four of them grew up together in Kenya's Kakuma refugee camp. All
lost parents and siblings in the Sudanese civil war that tore Dau from his
family.

For three years, Kual has been waiting for his cousin to be given permission to
find sanctuary in the United States. His cousin is the only member of his family
to survive.

As Kual waits, he knows life at Kakuma is plagued by famine and violence. Deadly
invasions from neighbouring tribes make living in the refugee camp more
perilous.

"Life is so bad there," Kual said. "I did not want to leave him alone, as we are
each other's only family. If he is alone, I am alone."

Three years later, he is still waiting.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited


                              631 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                August 21, 2003

OBITUARIES SERGIO VIEIRA DE MELLO, UN SPECIAL ENVOY; A TALENTED UN TROUBLESHOOT

BYLINE: ANNA PUKAS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 53

LENGTH: 753 words


IN AN organisation often accused of over-caution and pussy-footing around,
Sergio Vieira de Mello stood out as a man who told it as it was and did what had
to be done. His directness was evident when he was appointed the United Nations'
man in Iraq in May. The Security Council Resolution that set up his post was
strewn with typically woolly UN-speak about "facilitating" and "encouraging".
His response was: "These are verbs that I am not used to."

In a 33-year career, he acquired a reputation as an action man with a manner
that was both charming but authoritative in some of the world's most testing
places. As an added plus, he was handsome and performed well on TV, assets that
have become increasingly valuable for the UN.

He was its troubleshooter in Kosovo and East Timor and also commanded two of its
most challenging portfolios - refugees and, latterly, human rights.

When it came to appointing a Special Representative for Iraq, UN
Secretary-General Kofi Annan and US President George W Bush swept aside their
pre-war differences to agree that there was really only one candidate - the
talented Brazilian who was widely tipped to succeed Annan himself.

That potential will never be realised after a truck laden with explosives drove
into the UN compound in Baghdad and exploded directly beneath his office.

He was born in Rio de Janeiro in 1948 and attended the FrancoBrazilian Lycee,
receiving the multi-lingual education that a future diplomat-cum-aid worker
would need. He went on to study philosophy at the Sorbonne, France's elite
university, and in 1969, when he was 21, he began working for the UN High
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in Geneva. His first posting was to East
Bengal, which became Bangladesh after a war of independence from Pakistan. In
1974, he moved to Cyprus following the Turkish invasion of the island.

From then, whenever he was posted to a new job, his arrival seemed to coincide
with a crisis or trauma. The next six years were to mark him as a UN high flier.
Not yet 30, he spent three years in charge of UNHCR operations in Mozambique
during the civil war that followed independence from Portugal in 1975, followed
by three years in Peru under military rule.

From 1981 to 1983, when Israel invaded Lebanon, he was senior political adviser
to the UN interim force in Beirut.

He spent the next 10 years back at UNHCR HQ in Geneva before pitching back into
high-profile posts, firstly in Cambodia and then in former Yugoslavia. After a
spell in central Africa, he was appointed assistant high commissioner for
refugees in 1996 and then undersecretary-general for emergency relief in 1998.
In 1999 he returned to the Balkans as UN Special Representative in Kosovo
following Nato's bombing of Serbia.

In October 1999, he went to East Timor to oversee the changeover from Indonesian
rule to independence, a task in which he said he felt "like an ambulance driver
arriving at the site of a car crash and finding a dismembered body in a state of
clinical death". In May 2002, when East Timor's independence was formally
declared, he said: "You don't change devastation into a Garden of Eden in two
and a half years. But we have laid down a basis for the country to live in
peace."

He returned to Geneva to succeed Mary Robinson as High Commissioner for Human
Rights.

This appointment did much to heal the rift between UN and the US, who disliked
the former Irish president's assertive style.

THIS job was considered so important that when Annan appointed him special
representative to Iraq, neither the Secretary-General nor De Mello himself
thought he should be away from it for longer than four months. On arriving in
Baghdad, he said: "Freedom, dignity and security must from now on be taken for
granted by all Iraqis." He then shunned the media for two weeks to concentrate
on meeting as many prominent Iraqis in private as he could.

When the explosion first shattered his office building, he managed to talk to
colleagues from beneath the rubble but less than two hours later, he was
declared dead. A visibly-distressed Annan said: "Those who killed him have
committed a crime, not only against the United Nations but against Iraq itself."

A keen tennis player and football fan, De Mello also managed to achieve two
doctorates in his early years with the UN. He was divorced and is survived by
two grown-up sons.

Sergio Vieira de Mello, born Rio de Janeiro, March 15, 1948.

Died Baghdad, August 19, 2003, aged 55.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS


                              632 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                Guardian Weekly

                                August 20, 2003

Home Office starts refugee selection

BYLINE: Alan Travis

SECTION: UK NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 389 words



Home Office immigration officers started interviews in West Africa last week to
select the first refugees to be brought to Britain through a new legal route
into the country.

The first group of refugees, who are expected to be mostly Liberians, are due to
arrive in October as part of a resettlement programme operated by the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).

Home Office ministers have agreed to take up to 500 refugees in the initial
stages of the scheme, but it is expected to expand into an official route
whereby those refugees most in need of protection can get to Britain without
entering the country illegally.

A Home Office spokeswoman said the first batch of refugees would not be a
one-off, and officials were committed to running the scheme in future years with
an annual quota.

Those selected to take part in the scheme are to be given "cultural orientation
training" to teach them about British life, as well as English classes, to help
them integrate.  They will be provided with temporary housing, counselling, and
essential items for daily living.

The Home Office has not taken part in the UNHCR's international resettlement
programme before, except for a limited scheme involving serious medical cases.
But similar schemes have been operated for years by the United States, Canada,
the Netherlands, Denmark and Sweden, and have helped thousands of refugees find
permanent protection.  The US alone takes more than 70,000 a year through the
scheme.

Beverley Hughes, the immigration minister, said: "This is the first time that
the UK has been involved in the UNHCR resettlement programme -- an
internationally recognised route to help refugees reach protection without being
driven into the hands of the people traffickers.  It is in this context that we
have begun interviews to select the first refugees to bring to the UK later this
year."

She said that those who qualified for the scheme would all be refugees under the
1951 convention and many would have survived violence, torture or the death of a
family member: "We are committed to help them live a normal life, far away from
the continued instability in their countries of origin."

Home Office ministers insist the new resettlement scheme will operate in
addition to, and not instead of, current asylum procedures.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Publication, Ltd.


                              633 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 11, 2003

Leading article: Curbing traffickers: A new legal refugee route to UK opens

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 17

LENGTH: 400 words


In one the bleakest years for people committed to producing a humane asylum
policy, a rare ray of sunshine broke through last week. Who would have dared to
think that Britain's two biggest political parties, which have been
distastefully vying with each other over designing the most restrictive policy,
would both agree to the opening of a new avenue through which refugees can pass.
Yet that is precisely what happened. It may amount to a mere trickle this year,
perhaps 500 in total. But it is the principle that the programme establishes
that is important. Remember it was announced just as the Tories began calling
for the compulsory screening of all asylum seekers, with a subsequent block on
any suffering from expensive health problems, such as HIV or TB.

Yet, as we reported, for the first time the UK has agreed to take part in the
resettlement programme of the United Nations high commissioner for refugees.
Under this scheme, the UNHCR organises the resettlement of refugees who have
ended up in places where their life, liberty or health is under threat. True, at
least nine developed states - Australia, Canada, the United States, the four
Nordic countries, plus the Netherlands and New Zealand - have been participating
in the programme for years. In recent years, the US has been taking over 70,000,
Canada 11,000 and Australia 8,000. The UK will be more modest. It has sent
immigration officers to west Africa to interview refugees, selected by the
UNHCR, many of whom will have suffered some form of violence, torture, threats
or even deaths to family members. The first batch of perhaps 100 will be
Liberians who fled to Sierra Leone after the 1989-90 civil war.

Ministers emphasised that the new scheme would be operating in addition to the
current asylum procedure. It should not be confused with offshore zones of
protection that were proposed by Britain earlier in the year. The ultimate aim
is to open a route under which refugees most in need of protection can get to
Britain without having to use nefarious traffickers. As Simon Hughes, the
Liberal Democrat spokesman on home affairs, noted, the previous policies of
raising entry barriers ever higher has only played into the hands of the
traffickers. Now at last we too have joined an operation designed to protect
refugees from these corrupt rackets. What is even better is the all-party
support.


LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              634 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 August 7, 2003

African victims get new access to UK: African victims get new access to UK

BYLINE: Alan Travis, Home affairs editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 693 words


Home Office immigration officers have started interviews in west Africa this
week to select the first refugees to be brought to Britain through a new legal
route into the country.

The first group of refugees, who are mostly expected to be Liberians, are to
arrive in October as part of a resettlement programme operated by the United
Nations high commissioner for refugees.

Home Office ministers have agreed to take up to 500 refugees in the initial
stages of the scheme but it is expected to expand into an official route whereby
those refugees most in need of protection can get to Britain without having to
use private traffickers or enter the country illegally.

A Home Office spokeswoman said the first batch of refugees would not be a
one-off and officials were committed to running the scheme in future years with
an annual quota.

Those selected to take part in the scheme are to be given "cultural orientation
training" to teach them about British life and culture, as well as English
classes before and after their arrival to help them integrate. They will be
provided with temporary housing, counselling, and essential items for daily
living, as some will arrive with few or no possessions or suitable clothing.

The Home Office has not taken part in the UNHCR's international resettlement
programme before except for a limited scheme involving serious medical cases.
Previous governments have been nervous about maintaining control of the UK's
borders.

But similar schemes have been operated for years by the United States, Canada,
the Netherlands, Denmark and Sweden and have helped thousands of refugees find
permanent protection in the west. The US alone takes more than 70,000 a year.

Beverley Hughes, the immigration minister, said: "This is the first time that
the UK has been involved in the UNHCR resettlement programme - an
internationally recognised route to help refugees reach protection without being
driven into the hands of the people traffickers. It is in this context that we
have begun interviews to select the first refugees to bring to the UK later this
year."

She said those who will qualify for the scheme will all be refugees under the
1951 convention and many will have survived violence, torture or the death of a
family member: "We are committed to help them live a normal life, far away from
the continued instability in their countries of origin."

Home Office ministers insist the new resettlement scheme will operate in
addition to and not instead of current asylum procedures and the scheme is
different to the offshore "zones of protection" proposed by Britain earlier this
year.

It will mean that those recognised as refugees under the scheme will be able to
come legally to Britain without having to go through the nor mal procedures of
being smuggled into the country, applying for asylum and then being dispersed
while they wait for a decision. Those qualifying to come to Britain will have to
be referred to the Home Office by the UNHCR.

The first refugees involved are being interviewed by Home Office caseworkers
based in Ghana who have travelled to Sierra Leone. They will take the final
decision after security and health screening checks. Many of those involved in
the first batch, which will number fewer than 100, will include Liberians who
fled to Sierra Leone after the 1989-90 civil war in Liberia but still face
severe problems in their country of refuge.

A typical example of those with "special protection needs" included a Rwandan
woman in a mixed-race marriage whose husband was killed in the civil war. She
fled with her children to a neighbouring country but the proximity of the
fighting and the fact that she had mixed-race children meant she was a target of
violence by rebels and nationals of the country where she was living.

A UNHCR spokesman welcomed Britain's commitment to the programme and said that
it had proved successful in many other countries, including the US and
Australia, in providing protection to those for whom there was no alternative
way to guarantee their legal or physical protection.

guardian.co.uk/refugees


LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              635 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 22, 2003, Tuesday

LIBERIA PEACE APPEAL TO US

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 99 words


LIBERIANS begged America to help stop their civil war yesterday.

Crowds piled 18 bodies outside the US embassy in Monrovia in protest after 40
Marines flew in - to protect the building. The victims were killed when shells
hit the US diplomatic compound, where 10,000 refugees are sheltering.

As battles killed more than 70, protester Moses Smith said: "We need not those
coming to mind US property but those who will give us the feeling peace is
coming."

Liberians, their President Charles Taylor, the UN and African countries want the
US to send 2,000 peacekeeping troops.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.


                              636 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 20, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. a Place of Miracles for Somali Refugees

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1388 words

DATELINE: TUCSON


The white wooden door swung open and the dazed African villagers stepped into
their new home. It was a modest apartment with secondhand furniture and a stove
in need of repairs. But to Osman Yarrow, his wife and five children, refugees
from Somalia's civil war, it seemed like a place of miracles.

Clean water coursed out of gleaming faucets, an astonishing luxury for a rural
family who had spent more than a decade in mud huts without indoor plumbing.
"Red for hot," Mr. Yarrow repeated wonderingly as he held his fingers in the
steady stream. "Blue for cold."

There were flush toilets instead of pit latrines and beds instead of straw mats.
But what Mr. Yarrow treasured most on his first day in his American home was a
sense of security. In Somalia, he witnessed the execution of his father and son
by marauding militias. In Kenya, his family huddled in bleak refugee camps while
bullets sang in the night.

Here, he listened to the squeals of his children and the hum of a contraption
called an air conditioner. "We will sleep without hearing gunshots," he said.
"We're finally living in a safe place."

Mr. Yarrow, 40, represents the changing face of America's refugees. Since May,
more than 200 members of his tribe, the Somali Bantu, have been flown to 22
cities across the United States, the first wave of one of the government's
largest recent refugee resettlement efforts.

By the end of next year, officials plan to resettle nearly 13,000 Bantu, who
were enslaved and persecuted for generations in Somalia until civil war
scattered them to desolate and violent refugee camps in Kenya in the early
1990's.

Over the past decade, State Department officials have increasingly shifted their
focus toward Africa as wars there have displaced millions of people. The end of
the cold war has resulted in a sharp decline in refugees from the former Soviet
Union and Vietnam. Africans are among those filling the gap.

State Department statistics show that Africans made up 3 percent of the refugees
resettled in the United States in the 1990 fiscal year. By 2001, that figure was
nearly 30 percent.

The pace of refugee resettlement has slowed sharply since the attacks of Sept.
11, 2001. Thousands of refugees are awaiting security clearance because they are
fleeing countries like Somalia and Sudan, which have been accused of sheltering
terrorists. Even so, State Department officials say they hope to resettle more
than 1,000 Somali Bantu by Sept. 30.

Families have arrived in Houston, Salt Lake City, Nashville, St. Louis,
Rochester, Concord, N.H., and other cities like Tucson, where the cost of living
is relatively low and entry-level jobs are available.

For the Bantu, it is a journey in both space and in time. They are members of a
tribe that was forcibly transported to Somalia from Mozambique, Malawi and
Tanzania by Arab slave traders two centuries ago. In Somalia, they were often
denied access to education and jobs. Today, they are mostly illiterate and
almost untouched by Western life.

As refugees, they farmed, cooked, cleaned and labored in backbreaking
construction jobs in the Dadaab refugee camp in Kenya. But most had never
flipped a light switch, operated a stove, opened a bank account or flown in an
airplane.

Members of the tribe began the long process of adapting to a new culture earlier
this year when the International Organization for Migration began familiarizing
them with English, American culture and modern appliances while they waited in
the Kakuma camp in Kenya.

Mr. Yarrow and his family stepped off Delta Flight 3912 here this month,
carrying little more than their dreams. They plunged into a sea of white faces
in the airport, past the shops selling Cheez-Its and leopard-print umbrellas and
the passersby who gawked at the colorful Somali dresses of Mr. Yarrow's wife and
daughters.

They were welcomed by officials from the International Rescue Committee, a New
York agency contracted by the government to help refugees adjust to American
life. A caseworker who spoke Somali translated while other officials helped the
family collect their small bags and drove them to their new home.

It was a 30-minute journey through a dizzyingly unfamiliar landscape. There were
paved roads full of hurtling cars instead of dirt paths traversed by donkeys.
There were strip malls and billboards instead of anthills and thorn trees.

In the apartment, the family was introduced to appliances they had never used
before: a gleaming sink, a refrigerator and a stove without a working pilot
light. (The landlord fixed the stove the next day.) After their flight and
lessons, the Yarrows were so exhausted that caseworkers decided to leave
explanations about the dishwasher and air conditioner for another day.

But before the refugee officials left, Mr. Yarrow reiterated his biggest
priority. "I want to work," he said. "I want to learn English. I want to leave
all my problems behind in Kenya."

His enthusiasm is clear, but challenges await him. The Bantu here are practicing
Muslims in a country that has become increasingly ambivalent about Arab and
Islamic immigrants.

Mr. Yarrow and his family do not speak English and cannot read or write in their
own language. They are farmers looking for jobs as cleaners and fast food
attendants in a slowing economy.

Some communities have expressed reluctance to accept the new arrivals. In Cayce,
S.C., hundreds of people met last month at the City Council to question the
decision to resettle refugees there, arguing that they would strain the city's
social service agencies and schools.

State Department officials, who are responsible for refugees, say most
communities welcome them. Nationally, these officials say, more than half of
refugees find some form of work within six months.

Here, four Somali Bantu adults arrived seven weeks before the Yarrow family. Of
those, two have found full-time jobs that pay $6.75 an hour and include health
benefits, as housekeepers at a local hotel.

Officials at the International Rescue Committee say such progress is common.
From the beginning, instructors prepare refugees with English classes, interview
skills and job training, along with lessons about how to shop, where to bank and
how the local bus system works.

These lessons are crucial. Refugees here receive assistance from the federal
government for four months. After that, they are expected to support themselves.
Needy families can continue to receive federal refugee assistance for several
months and more from the state after that, but that is discouraged.

"When they realize our support is going to stop, that's when they will feel the
pressure," said Miro Marinovich, the Tucson coordinator for the International
Rescue Committee.

"But I am very positive about this group," Mr. Marinovich said. "Their
willingness to learn and their willingness to work: That's what I believe will
carry them through."

Abkow Edow and his wife, Madina Idle, who arrived seven weeks before the
Yarrows, offer a glimpse of the thrills and frustrations of ordinary life here.
They have opened bank accounts, taken the bus and learned to operate their
stove.

They have also learned about the minimum wage and the 40-hour workweek. Mr.
Edow, who was a truck driver in Somalia, seems poised to get a job as a steward
in a hotel. He has two children and a grandson and all three have fallen in love
with strawberry ice cream and American cartoons.

But the family still tiptoes around some of the appliances.

"The oven, we're still afraid of it," confessed Mr. Edow, 55. "We're still
afraid of the dishwasher. We have never seen such things in our lives."

Mr. Edow dreams of owning an auto-repair shop someday. He wants to shed his old
life, just as snakes shed their skins. But at night, he still returns, in his
dreams, to the violence in Somalia. Like Mr. Yarrow, he saw his father executed.
The killer, he said, used a hammer and nails. He buries his head in his hands at
the memory.

"We want to move forward," he said. "We want to forget the past."

On the day the Yarrow family arrived, Mr. Edow was in high spirits. He watched
as Mr. Yarrow and his wife, Khadija Hussein, practiced using their first can
opener on some Campbell's chicken soup and sampled their first taste of
blackberry jam on white bread.

Ms. Hussein looked at the fruit spread hesitantly. Then she took a bite and
smiled.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yahya Omar, above, left, a caseworker, gives a shopping lesson
to Osman Yarrow and his son Muhammad, Somali refugees, at a store in Tucson.
With them is Abkow Edow, a refugee who arrived in Tucson earlier. At right, Mr.
Edow and his wife, Madina Idle, open an account at a Tucson bank. (Photographs
by Sarah Prall for the New York Times)(pg. 20); With her son, Nur Mohamed, on
her back, Khadija Hussein, a refugee from Somalia, shops in Tucson. (Sarah Prall
for The New York Times)(pg. 1) Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: A Shift to Africa in
Resettling Refugees"Over the 1990's, the focus of the government's refugee
policies has shifted to accept more refugees from Africa's civil wars. While the
overall number of refugees admitted declined sharply after the terrorist attacks
of Sept. 11, 2001, many Africans are now awaiting security clearances. Graph
tracks the number of refugees admitted to the United States from 1990-2002 from
the following locations (for fiscal years ending Sept. 30): FORMER SOVIET UNION:
418,731ASIA: 348,257EUROPE: 168,869AFRICA: 103,724MIDDLE EAST AND SOUTH ASIA:
75,902LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN: 43,903TOTAL: 1,159,386 (Source: State
Department)(pg. 20)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              637 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                 Ottawa Citizen

                      July 12, 2003 Saturday Final Edition

Liberians plead for Canada's help: Former ambassador takes part in march on
Parliament Hill

SOURCE: The Ottawa Citizen

BYLINE: Erin Conway-Smith

SECTION: City; Pg. D4

LENGTH: 342 words

Members of Ottawa's Liberian community marched on Parliament Hill yesterday as
part of international efforts to draw attention to the humanitarian crisis in
their war-torn country.

The march, which coincided with a larger rally in Washington, came as United
States military advisers visited Liberia's capital of Monrovia. U.S. President
George W. Bush is considering whether to send peacekeeping forces to the West
African country of three million people.

About 30 people walked in the rain to the U.S. Embassy to show support for a
possible U.S. involvement in Liberia, before heading to Parliament Hill, where
they read a petition asking the Canadian government to step in and help the
country.

Hundreds of thousands of Liberians have been displaced because of fighting
between government troops and rebels. Many of the people are suffering from
cholera and other diseases.

Fred Sherman, 35, an organizer of the demonstration, said he hopes the Canadian
government will contribute humanitarian aid to Liberia, a nation founded by
freed American slaves that has seen violent conflict over the past 10 years.

"As a Canadian, I can't stand to see those images coming through my TV set and
know I can do something," he said. "People are dying, they are suffering, and
Canada is in a position to do something."

One of those of Liberian origin in Ottawa is Cynthia Jikpamu, 34, who fled her
native Liberia in 1990 and went to Ghana with her family. She said her sister
died of pneumonia in a refugee camp because medical care wasn't available.

"We want an international intervention to bring to an end the suffering of
hundreds of thousands of Liberians back home," she said. "Why is it taking so
long?"

Fred Sherman's father, Fonie, was Liberia's first ambassador to Canada. He
applied for permanent residency here after his diplomatic posting, attended
yesterday's march and said his country once served as a beacon of light for
other colonies in Africa.

"It was a good country, but for some reason or another, people went amok," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News

               Copyright 2003 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              638 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                     July 9, 2003 Wednesday FINAL C Edition

Refugees swarm Americans with pleas to restore peace in Liberia

SOURCE: Associated Press

BYLINE: Glenn McKenzie

SECTION: News; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 448 words

DATELINE: MONROVIA, Liberia

MONROVIA, Liberia -- Thousands of Liberians swarmed American military experts
Tuesday, pleading for U.S. troops to help end a ruinous three-year civil war in
the West African country.

The military team, including experts in civilian affairs and a security
contingent, arrived Monday to evaluate how the United States can help restore
peace in the country founded by freed American slaves in the 19th century.

Their first stop was a high school in northern Monrovia which has been taken
over by families displaced by a recent round of fighting.

Refugees, some waving handkerchiefs and American flags, surrounded the team,
chanting "No more war, we want rest."

As the experts moved on, crowds chased their 15-vehicle convoy. The delegation
decided to abandon a planned visit to another refugee camp in an abandoned Voice
of America radio station compound outside Monrovia.

When the procession re-entered the city, crowds formed again and in the
confusion, one diplomatic car ran into a young boy.

As diplomats loaded the child into the vehicle to get medical treatment, the
throng grew again. Liberian police special forces deployed on a bridge fired
shots in the air without warning to disperse them.

U.S. troops at the front of the convoy jumped out and briefly took aim at the
policemen until they realized what was happening, witnesses said.

The United States faces mounting international pressure to intercede in Liberia,
where President Charles Taylor is battling insurgents trying to unseat him.

U.S. President George W. Bush, speaking Tuesday in Senegal on the first stop of
a five-nation African tour, said he would work with African countries to help
enforce an oft-violated ceasefire but had not yet decided whether to send
peacekeeping forces.

He also repeated his demand that Taylor relinquish power.

Indicted on war-crimes charges, his capital surrounded by rebels, Taylor -- a
one-time Boston gas station attendant, Massachusetts prison escapee and warlord
-- is viewed by international prosecutors, diplomats and some of his own
citizens as the biggest impediment to peace in the region.

Taylor told The Associated Press on Monday that he is ready to resign, but his
pledge came with a catch: he will only leave after a peacekeeping force is
deployed to prevent "chaos and anarchy."

Taylor urged the United States to contribute to the force. "They owe it to us,"
he said.

The United Nations and European leaders have sought U.S. troops to enforce the
June 17 ceasefire between forces loyal to Taylor and rebels fighting since 1999
to oust him.

West African nations have offered 3,000 troops and have suggested the United
States contribute another 2,000.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News

               Copyright 2003 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              639 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                      July 9, 2003 Wednesday Final Edition

Refugees plead with U.S. troops to help restore peace in Liberia

SOURCE: Associated Press

BYLINE: Glenn McKenzie

SECTION: News; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 448 words

DATELINE: MONROVIA, Liberia

MONROVIA, Liberia -- Thousands of Liberians swarmed American military experts
Tuesday, pleading for U.S. troops to help end a ruinous three-year civil war in
the West African country.

The military team, including experts in civilian affairs and a security
contingent, arrived Monday to evaluate how the United States can help restore
peace in the country founded by freed American slaves in the 19th century.

Their first stop was a high school in northern Monrovia which has been taken
over by families displaced by a recent round of fighting.

Refugees, some waving handkerchiefs and American flags, surrounded the team,
chanting "No more war, we want rest."

As the experts moved on, crowds chased their 15-vehicle convoy. The delegation
decided to abandon a planned visit to another refugee camp in an abandoned Voice
of America radio station compound outside Monrovia.

When the procession re-entered the city, crowds formed again and in the
confusion, one diplomatic car ran into a young boy.

As diplomats loaded the child into the vehicle to get medical treatment, the
throng grew again. Liberian police special forces deployed on a bridge fired
shots in the air without warning to disperse them.

U.S. troops at the front of the convoy jumped out and briefly took aim at the
policemen until they realized what was happening, witnesses said.

The United States faces mounting international pressure to intercede in Liberia,
where President Charles Taylor is battling insurgents trying to unseat him.

U.S. President George W. Bush, speaking Tuesday in Senegal on the first stop of
a five-nation African tour, said he would work with African countries to help
enforce an oft-violated ceasefire but had not yet decided whether to send
peacekeeping forces.

He also repeated his demand that Taylor relinquish power.

Indicted on war-crimes charges, his capital surrounded by rebels, Taylor -- a
one-time Boston gas station attendant, Massachusetts prison escapee and warlord
-- is viewed by international prosecutors, diplomats and some of his own
citizens as the biggest impediment to peace in the region.

Taylor told The Associated Press on Monday that he is ready to resign, but his
pledge came with a catch: he will only leave after a peacekeeping force is
deployed to prevent "chaos and anarchy."

Taylor urged the United States to contribute to the force. "They owe it to us,"
he said.

The United Nations and European leaders have sought U.S. troops to enforce the
June 17 ceasefire between forces loyal to Taylor and rebels fighting since 1999
to oust him.

West African nations have offered 3,000 troops and have suggested the United
States contribute another 2,000.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News

               Copyright 2003 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              640 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                       July 5, 2003 Saturday Home Edition

Snapshot: New pastor treads path to change

BYLINE: KYSA DANIELS

SOURCE: For the Journal-Constitution

SECTION: Religion Faith & Values; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 628 words


Mission

They're doing a new thing at the Apostles Lutheran Church.

"We're shifting our focus on virtually everything," Ferrarone said. The mission
is to loosen up on traditionalism and embrace a more contemporary Christianity
that attracts youth, young families, retirees and singles.

History

Apostles Lutheran formed in 1959 in response to the growing Lutheran population
in the Dunwoody and Sandy Springs area. A few dozen people started the
fellowship at the corner of Glenridge and Hammond drives.

"It's just been a growing church in the same location, and a very traditional
Lutheran church that's going through a period of great transformation and
renewal," Ferrarone said.

In November, after one pastor retired and the other resigned, Apostles Lutheran
members selected Ferrarone as their new leader in light of his reputation within
the Evangelical Lutheran Church of America.

"They went through a period of re-evaluation and understanding that they needed
to go in a different direction and make some major shifts.  I came in with [a
varied] background and a lot of experience in this area, so it's been a great
match," Ferrarone said.

Pastor's path

Ferrarone started his ministerial journey in 1984, after becoming a Roman
Catholic priest.

His early ministry took him to a Vietnamese refugee camp in Hong Kong, where he
was a chaplain and English teacher to refugees, many being sent to the United
States. From China, he went to East Africa, where he dealt with famine victims
in Tanzania.

"It was a time when Michael Jackson was singing 'We are the World' and all those
kinds of efforts were going on," the Massachusetts native recalled. Then, in the
late '80s, it was back to the United States, where Ferrarone quit the
priesthood, married and became father to triplets.

"I left primarily because I didn't like celibacy," he said. "This is a much more
freeing experience."

The Lutheran minister, who grew up in parochial schools, is a Boston College
graduate.

Ferrarone said he also has received a doctorate and master's degrees from the
Lutheran Seminary in Philadelphia, where he was pastor at St. James Lutheran
church for 10 years before coming to Atlanta.

The 49-year-old and his wife, Linda, live in Gwinnett with their 11-year-old
sons and daughter.

Ministries

"It's a fundamentally different approach," Ferrarone says of the various
outreach efforts at Apostles Lutheran.

"Instead of doing things 'for' people it's about empowering people to do the
ministry themselves."

As a pastor, he sees himself in a different role too.

"I think the shift is away from being a CEO to being a spiritual coach and part
of a team."

As an example, Ferrarone points to a new slant on the youth Sunday school
program. He says a few parishioners took the lead in crafting classes that
coincide with the regular service hours, which enables children to enjoy a
youth-oriented worship experience tailored with station changes to keep their
attention.

The adults are worshipping differently too, to the tune of a live band and with
less emphasis on the traditional order of service.

Statistics also have helped guide outreach at Apostles Lutheran. Ferrarone
points to the area's growing swath of singles and retirees, both of which are
targeted groups for ministry.

Ferrarone is also proud of the church's focus on early childhood education. He
said Apostles Lutheran has a state-of-the-art school that caters to infants and
preschoolers.

"We're really trying to be an outward-motivated and -directed church."

Thoughts from the pastor

"There's a God who loves [you] and who wants more than anything else to have a
personal relationship with [you], and that's the invitation we extend to
everybody."

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Paul Ferrarone, formerly a Roman Catholic priest,
joined Apostles Lutheran Church in November./ PHIL SKINNER / Staff; Graphic: THE
APOSTLES LUTHERAN CHURCH
6025 Glenridge Drive N.E., Atlanta, GA 30328

* Phone number: 404-255-8668

* Web site: www.atlantaapostles.org

* Services: 9:15 a.m., 11:15 a.m. Sunday

* Membership: 400

* Senior pastor: The Rev. Paul Ferrarone

TYPE: Interview

                Copyright 2003 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              641 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 4, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Security Backlog Strands Many Refugees in Camps Abroad

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 581 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 3


More than 20,000 refugees approved for resettlement in the United States remain
stranded in desolate camps in Africa, Asia and the Middle East as officials here
continue to struggle to reduce the backlog of required security clearances,
State Department officials say.

The officials say they are working to speed up the process. About 14,300
refugees were admitted during the first eight months of the current fiscal year,
up from nearly 3,000 during the corresponding months of the last fiscal year,
which was disrupted by the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.

But the officials say refugee admissions are still far below normal. In recent
years, about 42,000 refugees have been resettled during the first eight months
of the fiscal year. The government had hoped to resettle 50,000 refugees by
Sept. 30, the end of the fiscal year, but that seems unlikely.

In the last fiscal year, only about 27,000 of the 70,000 refugees expected to
arrive in the United States actually made it -- the lowest number in 25 years.
Advocacy groups and resettlement agencies say the government looks set to miss
its target again this year.

"It's proving to be an immensely slow process and it is taking a tremendous toll
in human terms," said Kathleen Newland, co-director of the Migration Policy
Institute, an advocacy group that held a briefing on refugees here today.

"There are literally tens of thousands of people who have been accepted to the
United States who are living in limbo in very harsh conditions," Ms. Newland
said. "I think the State Department's stated determination to still move 50,000
refugees this year is an unrealistically optimistic one. I think we'll be lucky
to see 30,000."

State Department officials, who oversee the refugee program, say they are
working hard to move the refugees through the pipeline. So far, no terrorists
have been found among the refugees screened and approved by the immigration
officials, a senior State Department official said.

"Nobody's debating the fact that we're not where we want to be," the senior
official said. "We're trying to do everything possible. We're already starting
to see progress."

Officials in government and resettlement agencies blame the delays mostly on the
backlogs in the new security checks, which require the F.B.I. and the C.I.A. to
review the names of refugees fleeing countries considered breeding grounds for
terrorists. The new security clearances were instituted after Sept. 11, 2001.

Refugee interviews have also been delayed by civil strife and fraud in
resettlement claims in West Africa along with concerns that terrorists were
operating in refugee camps in East Africa. Africa is one of America's largest
sources of refugees.

In recent months, officials have flown to West Africa to try to identify new
refugee populations. They have also provided financing for the United Nations
refugee agency to create positions for 18 new resettlement officers to identify
additional people fleeing persecution.

State Department officials say they are working with other government agencies
to speed up security clearances. They note that several dozen Somali Bantu,
members of the African tribe whose resettlement has been repeatedly delayed by
security checks and concerns, have already arrived and more will be coming.

But advocates for refugees say the Bantu also demonstrate how painfully slow the
process has become. A vast majority of Bantu are still in a squalid camp in
Kenya where infant mortality rates have soared.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              642 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  June 3, 2003

Higher Education: High wire: Our social conscience has been swept away by the
rising tide of globalisation

BYLINE: Peter Scott

SECTION: Guardian Education Pages, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 869 words


An exhibition of photographs by the Brazilian Sebastiao Salgado has just closed
at the Barbican Gallery in London. The title of the exhibition was Exodus, and
its subject was the desperate flows of migrants and refugees around in the world
- in Africa, the Balkans, the Middle East, Latin America, Afghanistan, the Far
East. Flows that lap dangerously against the high-tech frontier-barriers of
Europe and the United States.

Salgado has photographed the human cost of globalisation - war, terror, famine,
exploitation. Some of his pictures are of epic proportions; the dispossessed
almost lost in cruel and beautiful landscapes. Others are intimate; the most
compelling are his portraits of migrant and refugee children. Each stares at us
directly - and dumbly asks, "what is to be done?".

The us, of course, is the comfortable world, increasing in wealth each year as a
result of free-market globalisation, but each year more fearful of the demands
(and the anger?) of its human casualties. We have no answer for Salgado's
children. We may fear the future, but cannot bear to give up present pleasures.

What has all this got to do with universities? The sad answer is almost nothing.
There was a time when development studies and liberation movements were key
intellectual concerns in universities. New courses were devised and research
programmes developed. Of course, they could be (and were) dismissed as
post-colonial, old imperialist anthropology or political science dressed in new
radical clothes. But they mattered.

Today, development studies has been overshadowed by the rush to increase our
market share of the global knowledge economy, a grab for the developing world's
talent that recalls the "grab for Africa" a century or so ago.

The liberation agenda, meanwhile, has been recast in domestic, apolitical, even
narcissistic terms. Gay identity intellectually fascinates far more than
economic enslavement. Universities are failing what used to be called the "Third
World" in three ways.

First, our teaching and research programmes seem to have less and less to offer.
Or, more fairly because there are many committed people and interesting things
happening in universities, on global issues the intellectual high-ground has
been abandoned to media-obsessed (and media-obsessing) thinktanks and high-class
punditry. So instead of real research into economic development in Africa or
Latin America, or a deep understanding of other political cultures, all that is
on offer are hand-me-down, neoliberal economic theory and glib analyses of
liberation movements demonised as the "other" of terrorism.

Of course, there are radical critiques of free-market globalisation. But they,
too, are generated in alternative thinktanks attached to new social movements,
which no longer see universities as friends, let alone bases. Or these critiques
are the work of lonely intellectuals in whom, if they have an academic
connection at all, universities no longer take pride, or even acknowledge their
affiliation - perhaps because it might put off corporate stakeholders.

Second, higher education is obsessed by a very particular, and partial,
discourse of globalisation. There are opportunities, for example coveted
membership of an elite club of global universities or the successful import of
more and more foreign talent to sustain our science and technology base - the
so-called brain gain.

There are threats, for example the loss of Britain's academic great-power status
or the penetration of the domestic higher education market by foreign rivals as
a result of GATS liberalisation.

But there is no hope, no humanity. The globalisation of hobnobbing with Harvard,
beating the Aussies in the race for international students or boosting UK plc in
the knowledge economy is dumb before Salgado's portraits of dispossessed
children. But universities seem unable to give voice to those other
globalisations - global solidarities (of which Salgado's Exodus was a shining
example), global resistances to mass-market, neo-imperial culture, sustainable
development in the face of World Bank imposed "free" markets.

Third, the university has allowed its role as social critic to atrophy - not
critic in a negative sense, sneering at the "real world" of productive work and
popular culture; but critic in a positive sense, conjuring up new visions and
new worlds. It is no accident that universities were able better to engage with
the "Third World" when they were more confident about their responsibility to
act as just such a creative critic.

Unless and until that confidence is re-established, British universities will be
less and less able to engage with the real global challenges presented by
Salgado's children. Maybe we no longer care what happens in faraway lands. David
Blunkett will keep us safe - for a while. But our universities will also have
increasingly less to offer their own country: the modernisation of its economy
and society, of course; the maintenance of its academic and scientific culture,
surely; but what about something far more important, something about knowing
ourselves?

Peter Scott is vice-chancellor of Kingston University.


LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              643 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

            May 29, 2003 Thursday St. Charles Five Star Lift Edition
                              Correction Appended

PERSECUTED BANTUS FROM SOMALIA WILL SETTLE IN ST. LOUIS;
THE REFUGEES HAVE BEEN AN UNDERCLASS IN THEIR AFRICAN HOMELAND

BYLINE: Phillip O'Connor Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1106 words


The first of nearly 12,000 Somali Bantus are leaving Africa on the latest leg of
a harsh, historic journey that will eventually lead to the resettlement of
possibly more than 200 of the refugees in St. Louis.

For many of these Bantus, their arrival in the United States ends more than a
decade in barren refugee camps in Kenya. Before that, the Bantu people in
Somalia endured two centuries of slavery and oppression.

"These folks are survivors," said Joel Frushone, Africa policy analyst for the
U.S. Committee for Refugees, an advocacy group. "They're industrious and
hard-working folks, and given the opportunity in America, they'll do well."

The term bantu describes a large group of black Africans in the southern half of
the continent sharing related languages, including Swahili and Zulu.

Not since the resettlement here of rural Laotians and Cambodians in the early
1980s has a large refugee group less exposed to Western ways arrived in St.
Louis, say officials of the International Institute in St. Louis, the local
organization sponsoring the newcomers.

"They'll know about the light switch, but they may not know about the light
bill," said Suzanne LeLaurin of the Institute.

The group said it expects to resettle 51 Bantus here by Sept. 30 and possibly
200 more in the following two years. The first seven families, consisting of 14
adults and 31 children, are likely to arrive in June or July.

The story of the Bantu people in Somalia is particularly harsh and sad,
according to published histories and interviews with refugee workers.

In the 19th century, Arab slave traders seized Bantus from their ancestral
homelands in Mozambique and Tanzania and sold many to plantation owners in
Middle Eastern and Persian Gulf countries, including Somalia.

Even though emancipated by the Italian colonial government in the early 1900s,
some Bantus remained in virtual slavery in Somalia until the 1930s. Others were
treated as second-class citizens, discouraged from sending their children to
school, owning land or political representation.

Even after emancipation, the Italians forced most Bantus to abandon their own
farms and work as laborers on more than 100 plantations owned by the colonial
government.

The Bantu people fared better under British occupation during and after World
War II but saw a return of discrimination once the country became independent in
1960. Some Bantus established farms or moved to larger cities to find work.

From the late 1970s until the early 1980s, the Somali government forcibly
conscripted Bantus to serve in its war with Ethiopia.

When Somalia disintegrated into a war among rival clans in the early 1990s, the
Bantu people became a target for attacks, rapes and killings. They joined the
exodus of tens of thousands to neighboring Kenya.

But even in the refugee camps, Bantus from Somalia reported being treated "as
serfs by their neighbors," according to a report by the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees.

They refused to return to Somalia.

For the last dozen years, they have languished in mud homes and under
tarp-covered branches in Kenya's arid high desert while nations argued over
their fate, said Frushone, who visited the camps in May 2001.

In 1999, the United States agreed to accept the Bantu refugees, but delays and
then security concerns following the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001,
delayed their departure again and again.

Almost all refugees are overwhelmed by their initial experiences in the United
States. Most cannot read, write or speak English, yet still must quickly adapt
in an alien culture.

That cultural chasm is far wider for many of the Bantu people who will be
settled in about 50 American cities.

Most are rural farmers, farm laborers or construction workers with no formal
education, according to a profile of the Bantu people developed by the Cultural
Orientation Resource Center, a U.S. State Department-funded program that
provides information to refugee professionals.

Prior to fleeing from Somalia, many knew little of modern conveniences such as
electricity or plumbing, had never seen a city, climbed stairs, ridden in a car
or flown in an aircraft.

They practice traditional beliefs in medicine including the use of ritual
ceremonies to cast off illness and evil spells.

Like all refugees, the Bantus undergo cultural orientation classes to prepare
them for their new home before departing Kenya. They receive extensive training
in housing, health, education and work. They practice in model kitchens and
bathrooms, learn about hot and cold water and household safety.

They're also told they must give up the practices of multiple wives and female
circumcision practiced by many Bantus and other Somali groups.

Not every community in the United States is welcoming the Bantus. In Holyoke,
Mass., the City Council last year voted to oppose the resettlement of Bantus in
their economically depressed community. The council said it could not afford to
house, educate and provide services to the several hundred Bantus expected
there.

In St. Louis, Institute officials plan to offer more help than usual to the
Bantus. They are increasing the amount of time social workers will spend with
the Bantu families during their first hours in St. Louis and planning daily
visits by volunteers for at least the first week following their arrival.

Much of that time will be spent reinforcing lessons about life in America and
expounding on what they've already learned about modern conveniences.

As much as practical survival skills, Institute officials also will be
concentrating on providing the Bantus with a sense of connectedness.

In Somalia, the Bantu people maintain a strong sense of family and community.
Families tend to be large with four to eight children. Extended families lived
in closely knit villages where members rely on each other for support.

"Their way of taking care of themselves is to take care of one another in a way
that Americans don't," LeLaurin said.

With no established families or relatives in the United States, officials worry
about quickly developing support networks for the Bantu people. The State
Department is hoping to keep extended families together as much as possible.

"Even if everybody in an extended family comes to St. Louis, they're not going
to be in the same three-block radius," LeLaurin said. "The ease with which they
can connect to one another is not going to be as easy. They're going to have to
re-create how they stay physically and emotionally connected to one another on a
day-to-day basis. That's going to be a real challenge for us."

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Phillip O'Connor:; E-mail: poconnor@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-340-8321



CORRECTION:
CORRECTION PUBLISHED Friday, May 30, 2003: Somalia is located along the Indian
Ocean. This story incorrectly identified the body of water.

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              644 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               May 29, 2003 Thursday Five Star Late Lift Edition
                              Correction Appended

REFUGEES FROM SOMALIAN UNDERCLASS WILL SETTLE HERE

BYLINE: Phillip O'Connor Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1324 words


* The Bantu people of Somalia are descendants of slaves and have suffered
persecution as well as impoverishment in their African homeland.

The first of nearly 12,000 Somali Bantus are leaving Africa on the latest leg of
a harsh, historic journey that will eventually lead to the resettlement of
possibly more than 200 of the refugees in St. Louis.

For many of these Bantus, their arrival in the United States ends more than a
decade in barren refugee camps in Kenya. Before that, the Bantu people in
Somalia endured two centuries of slavery and oppression.

"These folks are survivors," said Joel Frushone, Africa policy analyst for the
U.S. Committee for Refugees, an advocacy group. "They're industrious and
hard-working folks, and given the opportunity in America, they'll do well."

The term bantu describes a large group of black Africans in the southern half of
the continent sharing related languages, including Swahili and Zulu.

Not since the resettlement here of rural Laotians and Cambodians in the early
1980s has a large refugee group less exposed to Western ways arrived in St.
Louis, say officials of the International Institute in St. Louis, say officials
of the International Institute in St. Louis, the local organization sponsoring
the newcomers.

"They'll know about the light switch, but they may not know about the light
bill," said Suzanne LeLaurin of the Institute.

The group said it expects to resettle 51 Bantus here by Sept. 30 and possibly
200 more in the following two years. The first seven families, consisting of 14
adults and 31 children, and are likely to arrive in June or July.

The story of the Bantu people in Somalia is particularly harsh and sad,
according to published histories and interviews with refugee workers.

In the 19th century, Arab slave traders seized Bantus from their ancestral
homelands in Mozambique and Tanzania and sold many to plantation owners in
Middle Eastern and Persian Gulf countries, including Somalia.

Even though emancipated by the Italian colonial government in the early 1900s,
some Bantus remained in virtual slavery in Somalia until the 1930s. Others were
treated as second-class citizens, discouraged from sending their children to
school, owning land or political representation.

Even after emancipation, the Italians forced most Bantu to abandon their own
farms and work as laborers on more than 100 plantations owned by the colonial
government.

The Bantu people fared better under British occupation during and after World
War II but saw a return of discrimination once the country became independent in
1960. Some Bantus established farms or moved to larger cities to find work.

From the late 1970s until the early 1980s, the Somali government forcibly
conscripted Bantus to serve in its war with Ethiopia.

When Somalia disintegrated into a war among rival clans in the early 1990s, the
Bantu people became a target for attacks, rapes and killings. They joined the
exodus of tens of thousands to neighboring Kenya.

But even in the refugee camps, Bantus from Somalia reported being treated "as
serfs by their neighbors," according to a report by the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees.

They refused to return to Somalia.

For the last dozen years, they have languished in mud homes and under
tarp-covered branches in Kenya's arid high desert while nations argued over
their fate, said Frushone, who visited the camps in May 2001.

In 1999, the United States agreed to accept the Bantu refugees, but delays and
then security concerns following the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001,
delayed their departure again and again.

Almost all refugees are overwhelmed by their initial experiences in the United
States. Most cannot read, write or speak English, yet still must quickly adapt
in an alien culture.

Most of the Somali Bantu refugees are rural farmers, farm laborers or
construction workers with no formal education, according to a profile of the
Bantu people developed by the Cultural Orientation Resource Center, a U.S. State
Department-funded program that provides information to refugee professionals.

Prior to fleeing from Somalia, many knew little of modern conveniences such as
electricity or plumbing, had never seen a city, climbed stairs, ridden in a car
or flown in an aircraft.

They practice traditional beliefs in medicine including the use of ritual
ceremonies to cast off illness and evil spells.

Like all refugees, the Bantus undergo cultural orientation classes to prepare
them for their new homes. They receive extensive training in housing, health,
education and work. They practice in model kitchens and bathrooms, learn about
hot and cold water and household safety.

They're also are told they must give up the practices of multiple wives and
female circumcision.

Not every community in the United States is welcoming the Bantus. In Holyoke,
Mass., the City Council last year voted to oppose the resettlement of Bantus in
their economically depressed community. The council said it could not afford to
house, educate and provide services to the several hundred Bantus expected
there.

In St. Louis, Institute officials plan to offer more help than usual to the
Bantus. They are increasing the amount of time social workers will spend with
the Bantu families during their first hours in St. Louis and planning daily
visits by volunteers for at least the first week following their arrival.

Much of that time will be spent reinforcing lessons about life in America and
expounding on what they've already learned about modern conveniences.

As much as practical survival skills, Institute officials also will be
concentrating on providing the Bantus with a sense of connectedness.

In Somalia, the Bantu people maintain a strong sense of family and community.
Families tend to be large with four to eight children. Extended families lived
in closely knit villages where members rely on each other for support.

"Their way of taking care of themselves is to take care of one another in a way
that Americans don't," LeLaurin said.

With no established families or relatives in the United States, officials worry
about quickly developing support networks for the Bantu people. The State
Department is hoping to keep extended families together as much as possible.

"Even if everybody in an extended family comes to St. Louis, they're not going
to be in the same three-block radius," LeLaurin said. "The ease with which they
can connect to one another is not going to be as easy. They're going to have to
re-create how they stay physically and emotionally connected to one another on a
day-to-day basis. That's going to be a real challenge for us."

Civil war in Somalia

Civil war broke out in Somalia in the wake of the 1991 collapse of President
Mohamed Siad Barre's government.

Because the Bantu people in Somalia were excluded from the traditional Somali
clan protection network, bandits and militias attacked Bantu Somalis with
impunity. The militias stole food, robbed, raped and murdered.

In October 1992, the Somali Bantus began to flee from southern Somalia in large
numbers for refugee camps in Kenya.

Source: Cultural Orientation Resource Center

How to help

The International Institute in St. Louis is seeking housing with multiple
bedrooms and a reasonable rent, preferably in south St. Louis along bus lines.
Contact P. Ariel Burgess at 314-773-9090, Ext. 115.

The Institute also is seeking volunteers willing to serve as visitors to newly
arriving Bantu families. Training is provided. Contact Stefanie Stricker,
314-773-9090, Ext. 189.

Contributions also are being accepted for the agency's Warm Welcome program.
Items sought as donations include kitchen supplies, linens, cleaning products,
personal care items, school supplies, home furnishings, prepaid phone cards and
grocery and discount-store gift certificates.

For more information, contact Beth Radtke at 314-773-9090, Ext. 117.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Phillip O'Connor:; E-mail: poconnor@post-dispatch.com; Phone:
314-340-8321



CORRECTION:
CORRECTION PUBLISHED Friday, May 30, 2003: Somalia is located along the Indian
Ocean. This story incorrectly identified the body of water.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, MAPPost-Dispatch Color Graphic / MAP - SOMALIA

                  Copyright 2003 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              645 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 21, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

LETTER FROM AFRICA;
Liberia Seen as Icon of World's Neglect of Africa

BYLINE:  By Somini Sengupta

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 886 words

DATELINE: FREETOWN, Sierra Leone, May 16


At a popular restaurant here on the water's edge, the dinner menu offers a rare
item: a vegetarian version of the traditional West African groundnut stew.
Vegetarianism is anathema in this part of the world. But adjustments have had to
be made in Sierra Leone because the world is here.

Tens of thousands of foreigners have come to help restore peace in this tiny
West African country. Pakistani peacekeepers patrol the streets. Norwegians are
putting up houses for amputees (the most compelling casualties of Sierra Leone's
decade-long war). The Bangladeshis have built a "friendship school."

War criminals are to be tried in a new courthouse, under construction now,
courtesy of foreign donors. Already, 17,000 United Nations peacekeepers, the
largest such force in the world, have disarmed the warlords and drug-addled
child soldiers who carried on this country's decade-long war. Some people call
this the United Nations of Sierra Leone.

Today, Sierra Leone makes a strong case for international intervention. What
makes it all the more remarkable -- and fragile -- is what stands next door: a
portrait of neglect, an American invention called Liberia.

The contrast is striking. The World Food Program can no longer deliver food aid
to much of Liberia because its workers keep coming under attack by armed thugs.
Liberian refugees have rushed by the hundreds of thousands into neighboring
countries. Liberian mercenaries have ranged across West Africa, in search of new
conflicts and attendant looting opportunities.

Liberian enemy factions -- the government of President Charles Taylor in one
corner and rebels in another -- have made deadly alliances with rebel leaders
and heads of state in next-door Guinea and Ivory Coast.

These are foul wars of revenge and greed. The misery they produce cannot be
healed without ending the carnage in Liberia, analysts of the region agree.

But Liberia gets scant international attention. That negligence is a product of
Liberia's peculiar history. The British took the lead in corralling
international intervention for Sierra Leone, its former colony on this patch.
The French have had 4,000 soldiers planted in Ivory Coast, its former colony.
Liberia does not have a conventional colonial history. It was founded by freed
American slaves in 1847; "the love of liberty brought us here," the Liberian
coat of arms reads.

For nearly 150 years, Liberia remained a virtual American colony, and during the
cold war it ranked among Washington's most useful allies. The memory of that
strategic alliance sits on the outskirts of the capital. It is called the V.O.A.
refugee camp, named after the Voice of America radio transmitter that once stood
there.

The United States has never recognized itself as an imperial power, let alone a
colonial one. Even the title of "occupying power" is worn uncomfortably today in
Iraq, where the now frayed term "liberator" has been the label of choice.

So America's former virtual colony seems to be nowhere near the top of
Washington's priority list; in fact, not even on the Africa list.

"The end of the cold war produced a strategic disengagement, and Liberia is
Exhibit A in terms of the consequences," said Chester A. Crocker, the Reagan
administration's point man on African affairs. "There isn't a sense of strategic
interest or a sense of historic responsibility that makes us take a more
forceful stand."

The International Crisis Group, a research and advocacy organization, calls
Liberia "the eye of the regional storm." The United Nations high commissioner
for refugees, Ruud Lubbers, on a swing through the region last week, called it
the "epicenter" of the human crisis in West Africa. Mr. Lubbers described
Liberia's predicament as an emblem of the world's inattention to the continent.
"It is an icon of the problem," Mr. Lubbers said of Liberia, "the violence, the
gross negligence of the international community."

The United States has been reluctant to endorse peacekeeping missions in Africa.
But it has quietly supported the Sierra Leone war crimes court, which is
investigating the role of the Liberian president in the conflict and suggests
that it may indict him.

The United States also gives military aid to Guinea, an ally of the rebel group
now gunning for control of the Liberian capital. Rebels are said to control some
60 percent of Liberian territory. Fighting continues unabated.

The Liberian war's backdrop is international neglect. The relationship between
Africa and the outside world has almost always been an unhappy one. A little
more than 100 years ago, in the scramble for Africa, as it was called, the
European powers sat down together to bargain and parcel out the continent's
riches.

Today, a mixture of self-interest and historic ties compels the British and
French to re-engage in their former colonies. Perhaps they and the other
traditional power in West Africa, the United States, should follow the lead of
the 19th-century imperialists and sit down to bargain again. Only this time the
object should not be to divide the spoils but to bring a measure of peace to
this ravaged place.

The Security Council was scheduled to send a mission to the region last week,
but other matters, namely the debate over sanctions on Iraq, detained them. The
mission has been postponed for next month, or the month after.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Liberians by the hundreds of thousands fled to neighboring
countries from a land racked by foul wars of revenge and greed. A camp near
Kenema, Sierra Leone, serves these refugees from the epicenter of West African
misery and neglect. (Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              646 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 22, 2003 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

'LOST' REFUGEES FIND NEW, BUT COMPLICATED, LIVES

BYLINE: ANDREW GILBERT, Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT; Pg. 1F

LENGTH: 677 words


The long-running civil war in Sudan can feel very far away from the United
States. The most recent phase of the seemingly interminable conflict, pitting a
fundamentalist Islamic Arab government in the north against the Christian and
animist black peoples of the south, has flared and sputtered for more than two
decades, taking some 2 million lives and displacing more than 4 million people.

The Dinka people were particularly devastated when village after village was
raided and destroyed in the late 1980s. Thousands of adult men were killed,
while women and girls were taken into slavery. But many Dinka boys, who
traditionally care for cattle away from their villages, survived the massacres.
A group of 20,000, many as young as 7 or 8, became known as the "Lost Boys" as
they trekked through the desert, finding safety in refugee camps in Ethiopia and
Kenya.

A remarkable documentary by Bay Area filmmakers Jon Shenk and Megan Mylan brings
that war home to America in a most personal way. "The Lost Boys of Sudan," which
debuts tonight at the AMC Kabuki 8 Theaters as part of the San Francisco
International Film Festival, follows two Dinka young men, Peter Dut and Santino
Sakor, from a refugee camp in Kenya to Houston, where they are plunked down with
several other Lost Boys in a rough neighborhood.

Dut and Sakor are part of a group of 4,000 Lost Boys -- including 200 young
women -- given high-priority refugee status and resettled in the United States
in 2001. They ended up scattered throughout the country, from Kansas City, Mo.,
to San Jose, from Fargo, N.D., to Little Rock, Ark.

As the Lost Boys struggle to learn English, adapt to a new culture, support
themselves and seek an education, the film's title takes on a double meaning. As
they make their way in a starkly unfamiliar culture, the Lost Boys' American
journey reveals far more about our society than life in northeast Africa. "I see
things here different," Dut says. "Everybody is busy, time is money. How am I
going to get friends?"

Eschewing narration, the film captures both the mundane details of the young
men's lives, like housemate disputes over cleanliness, and the extraordinary
struggle they face in figuring out how and where they fit into the U.S. ethnic
landscape. Prejudices are evident before the Lost Boys even depart for their new
lives. At a celebration held for them at the refugee camp just before they
leave, a preacher exhorts them not to "act like those people who wear the baggy
jeans, who do all the bad things in America. If you failthere, we'll regret ever
having this party."

The film captures the enormous pressures on these orphaned young men who depend
upon each other for support, though they receive assistance from various groups.

"I come from an international development background. That's why I got into
documentaries," Mylan says. "This story shows the best of who we are as
Americans, and it also explores a dire human rights situation in the war in
Sudan."

Mylan, a graduate of the University of California-Berkeley journalism school,
and Shenk, a graduate of Stanford University's film program, hooked up with two
Lost Boys in the San Jose area, Mario Bol and Abraham Thon Deng, who ended up
playing a crucial role translating most of the footage.

"Meeting the guys was the clincher," Mylan says. "They were very motivated to
get their story out."

Though San Jose was a major resettlement destination, with about 60 Lost Boys,
Shenk and Mylan decided to focus on Houston, figuring the culture clash would be
more pronounced. But according to Bol, the issues they face are much the same in
Texas or California.

"The language was our problem when we got here," says Bol, who is studying
political science and business law at De Anza College in Cupertino. "And
transportation: We're not making enough money to buy a car. But we take care of
each other. If someone's sick or loses their job, you've got to take care of
him. Guys are losing jobs now because of the economy, so whoever has jobs takes
care of the others."

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Lost Boys of Sudan
Where: AMC Kabuki 8 Theaters, 1818 Post St., San Francisco
When: 6:30 tonight
Tickets: $10; (925) 275-9490 or www.sffs.org
Also: 1 p.m. Friday, AMC Kabuki 8 Theaters, $6; and 2 p.m. Saturday, Pacific
Film Archive, 2575 Bancroft Way, Berkeley, $10, (510) 642-1124

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: S.F. INTERNATIONAL FILM FESTIVAL
The documentary captures the mundane details of the men's new lives, as well as
their attempt to fit in.

                     Copyright 2003 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              647 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                     APRIL 17, 2003 Thursday CITY-D EDITION

Aid for refugees is drying up;
As resettlements dwindle, so has funding. Too much, some fear.

BYLINE: Maria Panaritis INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 997 words


Besnik Orana and his family were driven from their homes by NATO bombs and
rumors of midnight massacres.

For two months, the Kosovar Albanians lingered in a Macedonian border town
before President Bill Clinton authorized an airlift of 20,000 to the United
States. For the Orana family, that meant new lives, new jobs, and a house behind
a Northeast Philadelphia shopping mall.

"We are one of the lucky families," said Valbona Orana, 49, Besnik Orana's wife.
"We had help."

Such help, however, may be in dangerously short supply.

With U.S. refugee admissions at all-time lows, a sudden mass movement from Iraq
or elsewhere would be too great for the nation's resettlement agencies to
absorb, warn the nonprofit groups that have placed war-weary evacuees into U.S.
communities for 25 years.

Many of these community agencies, facing a precipitous decline in refugee
admissions after Sept. 11, 2001, have become so financially strapped that they
are short on translators, social workers and English teachers.

Washington allots $800 per refugee - half to individual refugees, half to the
agencies that help them adjust to new lives. That money has dried up as
admissions have declined.

With the flow down to a trickle, the agencies that have settled more than 1.8
million refugees nationwide since the early 1980s have instituted near-terminal
budget cuts.

One national agency estimates that only 20,000 refugees will be resettled in the
United States this year, compared with 131,291 in 1992 - the all-time high. Last
year's total: Only 27,113.

"When no refugees are coming in . . . we end up laying off case managers and
English-language instructors and employment counselors," said Jeanne McGuire,
executive director of the Nationalities Service Center in Philadelphia, the
agency that resettled the Oranas and others during the Kosovo crisis.

When that happens, she said, "we are not able to respond to any crisis in
refugee arrival that could occur."

If admissions do not increase soon, agencies may be in such dire straits that
they may not be able to accommodate even an emergency airlift, said Lavinia
Limon, who led the federal government's Office of Refugee Resettlement during
the Clinton administration.

Unlike with immigrants, who often retain positive links to their country of
origin, refugees are unwilling or unable to return to their home country because
of persecution or a well-founded fear of persecution on account of race,
religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political
opinion.

A refugee crisis has not emerged in Iraq, as many had feared. But last week in
Washington, the formation of a Congressional Refugee Caucus was announced to
address growing concerns.

"I'm worried about the trend line of closing America's border to . . . refugees,
" said U.S. Rep. Chris Smith (R., N.J.), a longtime refugee advocate who is
caucus cochair with Reps. John Conyers (D., Mich.), Zoe Lofgren (D., Calif.) and
Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R., Fla.).

Refugee resettlement became a federally administered program with the passage of
legislation in 1980. Through the end of the Cold War, the vast majority of those
accepted into the United States reflected U.S. foreign-policy interests. They
were from Southeast Asia and the former Soviet Union - areas that represented
nearly 70 percent of Pennsylvania's refugees and more than half of New Jersey's.

But when the communist bloc collapsed in the early 1990s, refugee policy was
thrown into disarray. Policymakers struggled with the question:

"If you're not making your enemies look bad - and there's no group that you have
a political clamor to take - then who do you take?" Limon said.

According to Limon, it remained unanswered.

Worldwide, the number of refugees is an estimated 14 million, with the greatest
numbers in the Middle East, Africa and South Asia. But U.S. admissions have
declined by the thousands almost every year since 1992, according to the State
Department.

There have been practical reasons as well as political reasons for the decline.

In the 1990s, the United States found it difficult to send its refugee agents to
war-torn African and South Asian nations, where security was dodgier than in
Eastern Europe and where multiple languages were spoken.

The swiftest blow, however, was delivered by the 2001 attacks on the United
States.

Refugee admissions came to a halt for months. New security-screening procedures
of foreigners by multiple government agencies further bogged down admissions.

In fiscal 2001, the FBI conducted 2.7 million security clearances on such people
as immigrants, federal job applicants, and foreign travelers, said a
congressional staffer who monitors refugee policy, who spoke on condition of
anonymity. This year, the FBI expects to complete 10 million.

Another problem contributing to the backlog: War in Iraq and anti-American
hostilities have led U.S. diplomats to halt travel in many nations.

No one is processing refugees out of Jordan, there is only one immigration
officer permanently stationed in Pakistan, and some African states have been
deemed too dangerous for U.S. officials to work in, said a State Department
official who spoke on condition of anonymity.

At the International Institute of Erie, where more than 400 refugees were
settled annually before Sept. 11, 2001 - 44 in one day during the Kosovo airlift
- a dozen workers have been laid off in the last 18 months.

"If at this point we lose anybody else, we might very well lose our capability
to settle a new group of people," executive director Mike Murnock said.

The agency settled only 93 refugees last year.

President Bush has authorized the acceptance of 70,000 refugees this year.
Though the State Department expects to admit 50,000 this year, Limon's group
says current numbers suggest that no more than 20,000 will arrive.

Contact staff writer Maria Panaritis at 215-702-7805 or
mpanaritis@phillynews.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO AND CHART;
AKIRA SUWA, Inquirer Staff Photographer
The Orana family - Valbona (left), Ylli, Besa and Besnik - began a new life in
Philadelphia with the help of nonprofit groups that settle refugees.
CHART
Down to a Trickle - Refugees admitted to the United States from foreign lands as
part of the government's refugee resettlement program. (SOURCES: Bureau of
Population, Refugees and Migration, U.S. Dept. of State; Immigration and Refugee
Services of America)
More than 1.8 million refugees came to the United States from June 1983 to June
2002. States with the largest number of refugee arrivals during that period.
(SOURCE: U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services, Office of Refugee
Resettlement; The Philadelphia Inquirer)

                  Copyright 2003 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                              648 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      April 12, 2003 Saturday CITY EDITION
                              Correction Appended

FOR THIS FAMILY, AMERICA AT LAST
AMARA KAMARA'S NINE SIBLINGS ENDURED YEARS OF WAITING IN AFRICAN REFUGEE CAMPS
FOR THE DAY THEY COULD JOIN THEIR BROTHER IN THE TWIN CITIES AND START A NEW
LIFE.

BYLINE: TODD NELSON and BILL GARDNERPioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 644 words


With hugs and laughter, Amara Kamara welcomed his nine brothers and sisters
Friday night to the United States and to a new life far from the refugee camps
of war-torn Africa where they had lived for years in hopes of reuniting with
their brother.

"This is great," a beaming Kamara said as he greeted each family member with a
bear hug as they walked off a plane and into a lobby at Minneapolis-St. Paul
International Airport.

The other family members had left Guinea the previous day, stopping in France
and New Jersey before arriving in the Twin Cities.

Kamara, a 35-year-old St. Paul resident, had worked for years to bring his
family to this country, but red tape and delays thwarted him. The terrorist
attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, came less than a week before the family was to depart
for the United States and caused another delay of 18 months.

But at the airport, the joy of a family reunited could be seen in their faces.

"We are very, very happy to be together," said Yaya, one of Kamara's brothers.
"May God bless the United States of America."

"I'm overwhelmed," Kamara said.

The Hennepin Avenue United Methodist Church and the Cathedral Church of St. Mark
are sponsoring Kamara's family, who will live in a guest house until they can
find jobs and become adjusted to their new country.

"Mostly they want to be independent," Kamara said. "This is the only place that
can give them a life."

Kamara married an American Peace Corps volunteer he met in Guinea and came to
the United States in 1996. He left behind his siblings in Guinea's capital city
of Conakry and hadn't seen them since.

The family had fled to Guinea when civil war broke out in their homeland of
Liberia in 1989.

Kamara, a personal trainer, had been sending money back to his family to help
them live until they could reach the United States. His wife, Connie, is an
international health adviser for the American Refugee Committee

After years of delays and red tape, Kamara's brothers and sisters finally had
been cleared for resettlement in the United States. They were going to arrive on
Sept. 17, 2001.

Then, as the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks unfolded on his TV, he knew the flight
was off. Although no refugee resettled in the United States has been linked to
terrorism, the government temporarily froze refugee arrivals, leaving in limbo
Kamara's siblings and tens of thousands of other refugees from around the world.

Nationwide, resettlement has resumed, but with greater security and at a much
slower pace. Arrivals this year may reach 17,000. Last year's total of 27,000
was a steep decline from the 69,000 of the year before.

Desperate for help, Kamara and his wife went to the St. Paul office of the newly
sworn-in Sen. Norm Coleman, whose staff members helped hasten the reunion.

"When they say they want to do something, they really do it," Kamara said.

On Monday, however, Kamara's brothers and sisters called him, crying because
they had just been told the flight had been canceled. Assuming they were leaving
this time, the brothers and sisters had let go of their apartment and given away
any possessions they could not carry on the plane.

His hopes dashed again, Kamara was in tears, too. "My heart was really broken,"
Kamara said. "We didn't know what was going to happen."

But the Coleman staff refused to take no for an answer and managed to get the
family out of Africa within days.

It will be a strange new life for the family, Kamara knows.

"They will have to learn how to open a bank account and take care of their
money," he said. "They don't know what it's like to get money."

"What's going to be overwhelming for them is the amount of things we have,"
Connie Kamara said. "I think going to the grocery store is going to freak them
out -- deciding between different kinds of rice or different kinds of
toothpaste.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 13, 2003



CORRECTION: Local: The daughter of Amara Kamara was misidentified in a photo
caption on Page 1B on Saturday. She is Manya, 19 months.
Sunday, April 13, 2003

GRAPHIC: Photo: JIM GEHRZ, PIONEER PRESS

Amara Kamara welcomes his sister Fanta, one of nine Liberian siblings who
arrived Friday night at Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport. His
daughter, Maya, 18 months, is at left.

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              649 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

                      March 31, 2003 Monday Final Edition

Waiting for war's end: Expatriate workers from Somalia, Egypt and other African
countries have fled Iraq and are sitting out the conflict at a Jordanian refugee
camp with an Internet link

SOURCE: CanWest News Service

BYLINE: MARINA JIMENEZ

SECTION: News; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 879 words

DATELINE: RUWEISHED, Jordan

Tents billow in the wind and sandstorms scratch at the faces of refugees at this
camp for war evacuees in the desert 50 kilometres from the Iraqi border. It is a
scene played out in refugee camps around the world. Except here there is one
unexpected difference: the relief-zone equivalent of an Internet cafe.

Somali students and Egyptian workers who have fled the war in Iraq follow events
from a Jordan Telecom bus parked at the entrance of the Red Crescent camp. The
high-speed link is faster than that provided by the best hotels in Amman, and
free of charge, courtesy of the Jordanian government.

The booming voices of analysts from BBC and CNN fill the bus, and Al-Jazeera
images flash by showing strewn body parts and wounded toddlers moaning on
hospital beds - casualties of an explosion in Baghdad market that Iraq has
blamed on an errant U.S. missile strike.

Guled Sugule, a Somali library science student, logs on to Voice of America,
while some of his friends who also fled Baghdad check out dating sites, e-mail
relatives and listen to rap music.

"Every morning, I see the world on the Internet and then we play football," said
Sugule, 20. "I would like to go back to Baghdad once the war ends. In Somalia,
there is also a war, so I do not want to go there."

Hiba Ali Abdi, a 21-year-old Somali student who escaped Baghdad by taxi last
week after U.S. bombs rained down, also spends about two hours a day here. "The
Internet helps me communicate with my family, who are worried about me. I have
also been looking for other educational opportunities in other countries. I will
go anywhere, even Eskimo land."

She is e-mailing universities in search of scholarships, and asks about
opportunities in Canada.

Around the camp swarm television crews from all over the world, sent to
Ruweished, 300 kilometres east of Amman, to cover the arrival of Iraqis escaping
from the war.

But the only people who have fled the war in the past 10 days are non-Iraqis,
expatriate workers from Sudan, Somalia, Egypt and other African countries.

More than half of the 500 have already been repatriated, and journalists with
little else to write about have interviewed and re-interviewed the remaining 200
at this camp.

"The journalists all ask the same questions. Where are you from, what are you
doing here. I'm getting tired of them," complained Abdi, who will wait out the
war here.

In the town of Ruweished, locals are just as happy the journalists are stuck
here waiting for the border to open. They have moved out of their homes and are
renting them to foreign correspondents for $1,000 U.S. a month - and demanding a
three-month deposit. An ABC crew has rented out the Arab Beach Hotel, a truck
stop for drivers transporting oil from Baghdad to Amman that has undergone a
hasty facelift to bring hot water, plumbing and new furniture to the scores of
Western guests. A catering company from Amman has been hired to prepare
hamburgers, hot dogs and lamb barbecues, and also offers a laundry service.

The only traffic on the road to the border aside from a few aid convoys
continues to be the reverse migration of more than 5,000 Iraqis going home to
fight.

In Amman, a bus with 50 Iraqis left yesterday for the perilous 900-kilometre
journey to Baghdad, where they hope to fight U.S. troops. "Our religion says if
you lose your life in defence of your country, you will die a martyr," said one
man, leading his fellow jihadis in a chorus of "Saddam Hussein, your name is
pride and glory."

Saddam was not always a popular figure among Iraqis in Jordan, many of them
dissidents and Shiites who were persecuted under his regime. But the war has
turned Saddam into an overnight hero, a kind of modern-day Saladin, the defiant
defender of the Arabs against Western Crusaders.

"In Iraq, you and your brother fight your cousin as your enemy. But you and your
cousin fight the foreigner as the big enemy," explained the bus driver,
describing the tribal fury that motivates many of his passengers.

This pan-Arab patriotism and anger at the U.S. killing of civilians has prompted
even non-Iraqis to sign up to fight coalition troops and die as martyrs
defending their faith in what they now see as a clash of civilizations and a war
of Christians and Jews against Islam.

Among the passengers on the bus leaving the capital is a 40-year-old Jordanian
farmer-turned-soldier repelled by images of dead children killed in the market
in the Shula neighbourhood in Baghdad.

"I thought, that's it, I'm going," said Ibrahim Abu Zedwan. "Though I don't like
Saddam Hussein, I think the war is unjust. The U.S. is not interested in
overthrowing Saddam but in controlling the country's oil. It is in the service
of the Zionist cause."

Zedwan, who wears running shoes and a worn army jacket, has never fought in a
war but is prepared to die for the cause. He left behind his two wives and 12
children, telling them only that he was "going away for awhile."

Iraqi officials said more than 4,000 Arabs from other countries have arrived in
Iraq ready to "martyr" themselves and defeat the U.S.-led invasion. "The
mujahedeen who have come to Iraq have come from all Arab countries without
exception," Hazim al-Rawi, a military spokesperson, said yesterday in Baghdad.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graphic;Diagram: (See hard copy for graphic); Photo: GLEB GARANICH,
REUTERS; A young girl plays yesterday with a ball at a refugee camp near the
eastern Jordanian town of Ruweished, where foreign correspondents are renting
homes for $1,000 U.S. a month.; Photo: GLEB GARANICH, REUTERS; Refugees from
Iraq pray yesterday at a camp near the eastern Jordanian town of Ruweished, 50
kilometres from the Iraqi border.

               Copyright 2003 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              650 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                             National Post (Canada)

                     March 31, 2003 Monday National Edition

Call it Camp Backfire: No Iraqis in Jordanian refugee haven: They would rather
go battle the U.S.

SOURCE: National Post

BYLINE: Marina Jimenez

SECTION: News; War in Iraq: In Ruweished, Jordan; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 897 words

DATELINE: RUWEISHED, Jordan

RUWEISHED, Jordan - Tents billow in the wind and sandstorms scratch at the faces
of refugees at this camp for war evacuees in the desert 50 kilometres from the
Iraqi border.

It is a scene played out in refugee camps around the world. Except here there is
one unexpected difference: the relief-zone equivalent of an Internet cafe.

Somali students and Egyptian workers who have fled the war in Iraq follow events
from a Jordan Telecom bus parked at the entrance of the Red Crescent camp. The
high-speed link is faster than that provided by the best hotels in Amman, and
free of charge, courtesy of the Jordanian government.

The booming voices of analysts from the BBC and CNN fill the bus, and al-Jazeera
television images flash by, showing strewn body parts and wounded toddlers
moaning on hospital beds -- casualties of an explosion in a Baghdad market that
Iraq has blamed on an errant U.S. missile.

Guled Sugule, a Somali library science student, logs on to Voice of America,
while some of his friends who also fled Baghdad check out dating sites, e-mail
their families and listen to rap music.

"Every morning, I see the world on the Internet and then we play football," said
Mr. Sugule, 20. "I would like to go back to Baghdad once the war ends. In
Somalia there is also a war so I do not want to go there."

Hiba Ali Abdi, a 21-year-old Somali student who escaped Baghdad by taxi last
week after U.S. bombs rained down, also spends about two hours a day here. "The
Internet helps me communicate with my family, who are worried about me. I have
also been looking for other educational opportunities in other countries. I will
go anywhere, even Eskimo land."

She is e-mailing universities in search of scholarships, and asks about
opportunities in Canada.

Around the camp swarm television crews from all over the world, sent to
Ruweished, 300 kilometres from Amman, to cover the arrival of Iraqis escaping
from the war.

To date, not a single Iraqi refugee has made it to the camp. The only people who
have fled the war in the past 10 days are non-Iraqis, expatriate workers from
Sudan, Somalia, Egypt and other African countries. More than half of the 500
have already been repatriated, and journalists with little else to write about
have interviewed and re-interviewed the remaining 200 at this camp. "The
journalists all ask the same questions -- 'Where are you from, what are you
doing here?' I'm getting tired of them," complained Ms. Abdi, who will wait out
the war here.

In the town of Ruweished, locals are just as happy the journalists are stuck
here waiting for the border to open. They have moved out of their homes and are
renting them to foreign correspondents for US $1,000 a month -- and demanding a
three-month deposit. An ABC crew has rented out the Arab Beach Hotel, a truck
stop for weary drivers transporting oil from Baghdad to Amman that has undergone
a hasty facelift to bring hot water, plumbing and new furniture to the scores of
Western guests. A catering company from Amman has been hired to prepare
hamburgers, hot dogs and lamb barbecues, and also offers a laundry service.

The only traffic on the road to the border aside from a few aid convoys
continues to be the reverse migration of more than 5,000 Iraqis going home to
fight.

In Amman, a bus with 50 Iraqis left yesterday for the perilous 900-kilometre
journey to Baghdad, where they hope to fight U.S. troops. "Our religion says if
you lose your life in defence of your country, you will die a martyr," said one
man, leading his fellow jihadis in a chorus of "Saddam Hussein, your name is
pride and glory."

Saddam was not always a popular figure among Iraqis in Jordan, many of them
dissidents and Shiites who were persecuted under his regime. But the war has
turned Saddam into an overnight hero, a kind of modern-day Saladin, the defiant
defender of the Arabs against Western Crusaders.

"In Iraq, you and your brother fight your cousin as your enemy. But you and your
cousin fight the foreigner as the big enemy," explained the bus driver,
describing the tribal fury that motivates many of his passengers.

This pan-Arab patriotism and anger at the U.S. killing of civilians has prompted
even non-Iraqis to sign up to fight coalition troops and die as martyrs
defending their faith in what they now see as a clash of civilizations and a war
of Christians and Jews against Islam.

Among the passengers on the bus leaving the capital is a 40-year-old Jordanian
farmer-turned-soldier repelled by images of dead children killed in the market
in the Shula neighborhood in Baghdad. "I thought, that's it, I'm going," said
Ibrahim Abu Zedwan. "Though I don't like Saddam Hussein, I think the war is
unjust. The U.S. is not interested in overthrowing Saddam, but in controlling
the country's oil. It is in the service of the Zionist cause."

Mr. Zedwan, who wears running shoes and a worn army jacket, has never fought in
a war, but is prepared to die for the cause. He left behind his two wives and 12
children, telling them only that he was "going away for awhile."

Iraqi officials said more than 4,000 Arabs from other countries have arrived in
Iraq ready to "martyr" themselves and defeat the U.S.-led invasion. "The
mujahadeen who have come to Iraq have come from all Arab countries without
exception," Hazim al-Rawi, a military spokesman, said yesterday in Baghdad.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News

               Copyright 2003 National Post, All Rights Reserved


                              651 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                 Ottawa Citizen

                      March 31, 2003 Monday Final Edition

Refugee camp filled, but not with Iraqis: The only people to have fled the war
are workers and students from elsewhere, Marina Jimenez reports.

SOURCE: CanWest News Service

BYLINE: Marina Jimenez

SECTION: News; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 896 words

DATELINE: RUWEISHED, Jordan

RUWEISHED, Jordan - Tents billow in the wind and sandstorms scratch at the faces
of refugees at this camp for war evacuees in the desert 50 kilometres from the
Iraqi border.

It is a scene played out in refugee camps around the world. Except here there is
one unexpected difference: the relief-zone equivalent of an Internet cafe.

Somali students and Egyptian workers who have fled the war in Iraq follow events
from a Jordan Telecom bus parked at the entrance of the Red Crescent camp. The
high-speed link is faster than that provided by the best hotels in Amman, and
free of charge, courtesy of the Jordanian government.

The booming voices of analysts from BBC and CNN fill the bus, and al-Jazeera
images flash by showing strewn body parts and wounded toddlers moaning on
hospital beds -- casualties of an explosion in Baghdad market that Iraq has
blamed on an errant U.S. missile strike.

Guled Sugule, a Somali library science student, logs on to Voice of America,
while some of his friends who also fled Baghdad check out dating sites, e-mail
their family and listen to rap music.

"Every morning, I see the world on the Internet and then we play football," said
Mr. Sugule, 20. "I would like to go back to Baghdad once the war ends. In
Somalia there is also a war so I do not want to go there."

Hiba Ali Abdi, a 21-year-old Somali student who escaped Baghdad by taxi last
week after U.S. bombs rained down, also spends about two hours a day here. "The
Internet helps me communicate with my family who are worried about me. I have
also been looking for other educational opportunities in other countries. I will
go anywhere, even Eskimo land."

She is e-mailing universities in search of scholarships, and asks about
opportunities in Canada.

Around the camp swarm television crews from all over the world, sent to
Ruweished, 300 kilometres from Amman, to cover the arrival of Iraqis escaping
from the war.

To date, not a single Iraqi refugee has made it to the camp. The only people who
have fled the war in the past 10 days are non-Iraqis, expatriate workers from
Sudan, Somalia, Egypt and other African countries.

More than half of the 500 have already been repatriated, and journalists with
little else to write about have interviewed and re-interviewed the remaining 200
at this camp.

"The journalists all ask the same questions. Where are you from, what are you
doing here. I'm getting tired of them," complained Ms. Abdi, who will wait out
the war here.

In the town of Ruweished, locals are just as happy the journalists are stuck
here waiting for the border to open. They have moved out of their homes and are
renting them to foreign correspondents for $1,000 U.S. a month -- and demanding
a three-month deposit. An ABC crew has rented out the Arab Beach Hotel, a truck
stop for weary drivers transporting oil from Baghdad to Amman which has
undergone a hasty facelift to bring hot water, plumbing and new furniture to the
scores of western guests. A catering company from Amman has been hired to
prepare hamburgers, hot dogs and lamb barbecues, and also offers a laundry
service.

The only traffic on the road to the border aside from a few aid convoys
continues to be the reverse migration of more than 5,000 Iraqis going home to
fight.

In Amman, a bus with 50 Iraqis left yesterday for the perilous 900-kilometre
journey to Baghdad, where they hope to fight U.S. troops. "Our religion says if
you lose your life in defence of your country, you will die a martyr," said one
man, leading his fellow jihadis in a chorus of "Saddam Hussein, your name is
pride and glory."

Mr. Saddam was not always a popular figure among Iraqis in Jordan, many of them
dissidents and Shiites who were persecuted under his regime. But the war has
turned Mr. Saddam into an overnight hero, a kind of modern-day Saladin, the
defiant defender of the Arabs against Western Crusaders.

"In Iraq, you and your brother fight your cousin as your enemy. But you and your
cousin fight the foreigner as the big enemy," explained the bus driver,
describing the tribal fury that motivates many of his passengers.

This pan-Arab patriotism and anger at the U.S. killing of civilians has prompted
even non-Iraqis to sign up to fight coalition troops and die as martyrs
defending their faith in what they now see as a clash of civilizations and a war
of Christians and Jews against Islam.

Among the passengers on

the bus leaving the capital is a 40-year-old Jordanian farmer-turned-soldier
repelled by images of dead children killed in the market in the Shula
neighbourhood in Baghdad.

"I thought, that's it, I'm going," said Ibrahim Abu Zedwan. "Though I don't like
Saddam Hussein, I think the war is unjust. The U.S. is not interested in
overthrowing Saddam, but in controlling the country's oil. It is in the service
of the Zionist cause."

Mr. Zedwan, who wears running shoes and a worn army jacket, has never fought in
a war, but is prepared to die for the cause. He left behind his two wives and 12
children, telling them only that he was "going away for awhile."

Iraqi officials said more than 4,000 Arabs from other countries have arrived in
Iraq ready to "martyr" themselves and defeat the U.S.-led invasion. "The
mujahadeen who have come to Iraq have come from all Arab countries without
exception," Hazim al-Rawi, a military spokesman, said yesterday in Baghdad.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Colour Photo: Gleb Garanich, Reuters; A refugee from Iraq sits near his
tent at a camp near the Jordanian town of Ruweished, about 50 kilometres from
the Iraq border. There are only about 200 refugees, all of them African
expatriates working in Iraq.

TYPE: News

               Copyright 2003 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              652 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 14, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Homes for Refugees

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 162 words


To the Editor:

Re "Africa's Lost Tribe Discovers American Way" (front page, March 7):

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees provides food, shelter and
basic services to 20 million people.

We have helped the Somali Bantu in camps in Kenya since the early 1990's. But a
refugee camp is never a long-term solution.

When Washington responded positively to our request in 1991 to consider
resettling the refugees, it was cause for celebration. More than a year ago,
12,000 learned that they would be interviewed for resettlement. But fewer than
10 percent have been, and just a handful have departed.

A two-year slowdown in America's resettlement program has left many thousands of
refugees in desperate situations. Resolving the Bantu issue would be an
important step forward. We hope that these people will finally be able to leave
their misery behind.

GUENET GUEBRE-CHRISTOS
Regional Representative
U.N.H.C.R. Office for U.S., Caribbean
Washington, March 12, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              653 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 10, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Africa's Lost Tribe Discovers American Way

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1570 words

DATELINE: KAKUMA, Kenya


The engines rumbled and the red sand swirled as the cargo plane roared onto the
dirt airstrip. One by one, the dazed and impoverished refugees climbed from the
belly of the plane into this desolate wind-swept camp.

They are members of Africa's lost tribe, the Somali Bantu, who were stolen from
the shores of Mozambique, Malawi and Tanzania and carried on Arab slave ships to
Somalia two centuries ago. They were enslaved and persecuted until Somalia's
civil war scattered them to refugee camps in the 1990's.

Yet on this recent day, the Bantu people were rejoicing as they stepped from the
plane into the blinding sun. They were the last members of the tribe to be
transferred from a violent camp near the Somali border to this dusty place just
south of Sudan. They knew their first trip in a flying machine was a harbinger
of miracles to come.

Over the next two years, nearly all of the Somali Bantu refugees in Kenya --
about 12,000 people -- are to be flown to the United States. This is one of the
largest refugee groups to receive blanket permission for resettlement since the
mid-1990's, State Department officials say.

The refugees will be interviewed by American immigration officials in this camp,
which is less violent than the camp near Somalia. The interview process has been
slowed by security concerns in the aftermath of Sept. 11. Despite the repeated
delays, the preparations for the extraordinary journey are already under way.

Every morning, dozens of peasant farmers take their seats in classrooms in a
simple one-story building with a metal roof. They study English, hold their
first notebooks and pens, and struggle to learn about the place called America.
It is an enormous task.

The Bantu, who were often denied access to education and jobs in Somalia, are
mostly illiterate and almost completely untouched by modern life. They measure
time by watching the sun rise and fall over their green fields and mud huts.

As refugees, they have worked the soil, cooked, cleaned and labored in
backbreaking construction jobs, filling about 90 percent of the unskilled jobs
in the camp in Dadaab, Kenya, where most Bantu people lived until they were
transferred here last year. But most have never turned on a light switch,
flushed a toilet or held a lease.

So the students here study in a classroom equipped with all the trappings of
modern American life, including a gleaming refrigerator, a sink, a toilet and a
bathtub. They are learning about paper towels and toilet cleanser and peanut
butter and ice trays, along with English and American culture.

Refugee officials here fear that the Bantu's battle to adjust to a high-tech
world will only be complicated by American ambivalence about immigrants since
the terrorist attacks in the United States.

The Bantu are practicing Muslims. Women cover their hair with brightly colored
scarves. Families pray five times a day. In Somalia, they were in a
predominantly Muslim country often described as a breeding ground for
terrorists.

The American government requires refugees from such hot spots to undergo a new
series of security clearances before they can be resettled in the United States.
The new system has delayed the arrival of thousands of refugees, leaving them to
languish in camps where children often die of malnutrition.

But most people here are willing to do what it takes to live in a country that
outlaws discrimination. While they wait, they learn about leases and the
separation between church and state, and they practice their limited English.

About 700 Bantu have gone through this cultural orientation. By the end of
September, State Department officials say, 1,500 are expected to be resettled in
about 50 American cities and towns, including Boston; Charlotte, N.C.; San
Diego; and Erie, Pa.

In America, the refugees tell each other, the Bantu will be considered human
beings, not slaves, for the first time.

"It's scary," said Haw Abass Aden, a peasant farmer still trembling as she
stepped off her first flight through the clouds. She clung tightly to a kerosene
lamp with one hand and her little girl with the other. But she regained her
composure as she considered her future.

"We are coming here to be resettled in the United States," said Ms. Aden, 20,
speaking through a translator. "There, we will find peace and freedom."

After centuries of suffering, they are praying that America will be the place
where they will finally belong. The United Nations has been trying to find a
home for the Bantu for more than a decade because it is painfully clear they
cannot return to Somalia.

In Somalia, the lighter-skinned majority rejected the Bantu, for their slave
origins and dark skin and wide features. Even after they were freed from
bondage, the Bantu were denied meaningful political representation and rights to
land ownership. During the Somali civil war, they were disproportionately
victims of rapes and killings.

The discrimination and violence continues in the barren camps today -- even here
-- where the Bantu are often attacked and dismissed as Mushungulis, which means
slave people.

But finding a new home for the Bantu refugees here has not been easy. First
Tanzania and then Mozambique, the Bantu's ancestral homelands, agreed to take
the tribe. Both impoverished countries ultimately reneged, saying they could not
afford to resettle the group.

In 1999, the United States determined that the Somali Bantu tribe was a
persecuted group eligible for resettlement. The number of African refugees
approved for admission in the United States surged from 3,318 in 1990 to 20,084
a decade later as the cold war ended and American officials focused on assisting
refugees beyond those fleeing Communist countries.

"I don't think Somalia is my country because we Somali Bantus have seen our
people treated like donkeys there," said Fatuma Abdekadir, 20, who was waiting
for her class to start. "I think my country is where I am going.

"There, there is peace. Nobody can treat you badly. Nobody can come into your
house and beat you."

The refugees watch snippets of American life on videos in class, and they marvel
at the images of supermarkets filled with peppers and tomatoes and of tall
buildings that reach for the clouds. But they know little about racism, poverty,
the bone-chilling cold or the cities that will be chosen for them by refugee
resettlement agencies.

What they know is this flat, parched corner of Africa, a place of thorn trees
and numbing hunger where water comes from wells when it comes at all -- a place
of fierce heat and wind that whips the sand into biting and blinding storms.

In the classes, the teachers try to prepare the Bantu for a modern world. Issack
Adan carefully guides his students through the lessons, taking questions from
older men with graying beards, teenage girls with ballpoint pens tucked into
their head scarves and young mothers with babies tied to their backs.

The lesson of the day: a white flush toilet. "Come close, come close," Mr. Adan
said as the women approached the strange object doubtfully. "Mothers, you sit on
it, you don't stand on it."

The women nodded, although they seemed uncertain. Mr. Adan showed them how to
flush the toilet and how to clean it. "You wash with this thing and you will
have a good smell," he said.

"A very nice smell," the students agreed.

Then Abubakar Saidali, a 30-year-old student, looked closely at the odd
contraption and asked, "But where does that water go?" For an answer, Mr. Adan
took the refugees outside to show them the pipes that carry the sewage.

Back in the classroom, the students spent the next few hours learning about the
refrigerator, ice cubes and strawberry jam. They watched eagerly as Mr. Adan
washed dishes in a sink and admired the bathtub and shower. One woman demurred,
however, when he invited her to step into the tub.

"It is so clean," she said shyly. "Can I really step in it?"

Some students grumbled that the American appliances seemed more complicated than
their ordinary ways of living. Why worry about cleaning a toilet, some refugees
said aloud, when the bushes never need to be cleaned?

But Mr. Saidali said he was thrilled to learn about modern toilets after years
of relying on smelly pit latrines.

"This latrine is inside the house," marveled Mr. Saidali, a lean man in tattered
sneakers. "It's better than what we are now using. It has a seat for sitting and
the water goes down.

"Even this sink -- it's my first time," he said. "This sink is for washing. It
cleans things very nicely."

Even with the lessons, some Bantu are worried about how they will cope in
America. They know that blacks and Muslims are minorities there. Will Americans
be welcoming? Will they learn English quickly enough? Will they find jobs and
housing and friends? Some officials here worry, too.

"These people are from rural areas," Mr. Adan said. "They don't know much about
modern life."

But the refugees who arrived on the plane here said they were eager for the
challenge.

Uncertain of what might be needed in the United States, they carried most of
their precious possessions -- broken brooms, chipped mugs, metal plates -- as
they boarded a rattling bus that roared deep into the camp as the sun sank
beyond the horizon.

The refugees knew they would be sleeping on the ground again and going hungry as
they have often done. But they also knew that this was only the first phase of
an incredible journey.

First stop, Kakuma. Next stop, America.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Somali Bantu refugees at a camp in Kakuma, Kenya, take classes
to prepare for new lives in the United States. (Joao Silva for The New York
Times)(pg. A1); Somali Bantu men, left, were taught how to read signs on public
toilets during an orientation class at the Kakuma refugee camp in Kenya. In
another class, right, Somali Bantu women learned how to use and clean a sink.; A
Somali Bantu child was weighed upon arrival at the Kakuma camp. (Photographs by
Joao Silva for The New York Times)(pg. A7) Map of Kenya highlighting Kakuma:
Somali Bantu refugees in Kakuma are learning about American life. (pg. A7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              654 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            February 24, 2003 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Waiting for a Ticket to Safety;
Troubled U.S. Refugee Program Keeps Families Divided

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1336 words


After seven years of fear, loneliness and grief, it had come to this: Ruqia
Guleid in her tiny Fairfax living room, on one end of a phone line. Her husband,
torn from her by Somalia's civil war, on the other. Found, alive, at last.

"He was crying. I was crying. Children was crying," recounted the Somali
refugee, 62, hugging a gold brocade shawl around her as she described the
jubilant call to Africa. Finally, she had assured her husband, their separation
was over. "I say, 'Don't worry! You are coming to us.' "

But three years later, Guleid waits. And waits.

Guleid's husband is among thousands of people stranded in precarious conditions
overseas during a dramatic slowdown in the U.S. refugee program. While U.S.
officials predicted that the program would bounce back after a suspension
following the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, it instead has run into new
snags.

Only about 5,000 refugees have come to the United States in the first four
months of this fiscal year, raising doubts about whether the 50,000 goal for the
year will be met. Last year, the refugee program admitted less than half of a
70,000 limit, the lowest number in 25 years.

"The program has effectively collapsed," said Kathleen Newland, executive
director of the Migration Policy Institute, a Washington think tank, reflecting
a view common among refugee advocates.

U.S. officials deny that the refugee program is falling apart. They say it has
been slowed by extra security checks, especially for men from mostly Muslim or
Arab countries. But, they say, they are working to overcome those delays. And
terrorism, they note, isn't the only problem. For example, widespread fraud has
been uncovered in the refugee-selection process in Africa, prompting added
review of those cases.

"We're fully aware of the human costs of the delays. But we also have to deal
with a number of realities that make it tough sledding at times," said a Bush
administration official who spoke on the condition of not being identified. "You
can't brush aside things like fraud."

For years, the United States has been a global leader in resettling refugees,
accepting hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese anti-communists, Soviet Jews,
Iranian Christians, Africans fleeing ethnic strife and others.

Refugees must prove to a U.S. immigration official abroad that they face
persecution at home because of race, religion, political activity or other
factors. Even in the best of times, they face bureaucratic hurdles. But now, the
process can drag on for years.

The slowdown is visible not just in distant refugee camps but here in
Washington. The International Rescue Committee used to resettle more than 500
refugees a year locally. Just 23 have come in the fiscal year that began Oct. 1.
At Catholic Charities in Arlington, which usually receives 200 refugees a year,
only 13 have arrived so far.

"It's been a very traumatic experience," said Neal Donahue of Lutheran Social
Services in Falls Church. It has received so few refugees -- just two in January
-- that it has laid off workers.

More critically, the slowdown is visible in modest homes like Seble Lemma's in
Silver Spring. The Ethiopian native is waiting for a sick mother and five
brothers who are half a world away, living in a single room in a house in Kenya.
Lemma hasn't seen them for a decade.

"Every Christmas comes, [I think] maybe this Christmas we'll get together," said
the waitress and mother of two, tears welling. She rented an apartment for her
relatives nine months ago after hearing that they would soon leave for the
United States. But it sits empty.

The drop in refugees is due in part to security measures adopted after the 2001
attacks. In particular, male refugees from many predominantly Muslim or Arab
countries must pass a review conducted by the FBI and CIA known as a Security
Advisory Opinion. That review process is already overwhelmed by applicants for
tourist, student and immigrant visas.

Lavinia Limon, executive director of the nonprofit U.S. Committee for Refugees,
said she had been told by the State Department, which oversees the refugee
program, that no applicants had failed their security review. But the system has
operated at a crawl.

The Bush administration official acknowledged that the security review has had a
"significant impact" on refugees. "We are devoting considerable resources to
ensuring it doesn't hold up refugee admissions," he said, adding that a
breakthrough could come in weeks.

Security hurdles have been set particularly high for Iraqis. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service has begun rechecking every case, even after the refugee
has passed State Department, FBI and CIA background checks.

Anti-terrorism clearances aren't the only reason for the slowdown.

The U.S. refugee program is in the midst of changing its focus, from large
groups in a few locations -- such as Vietnam and the Soviet Union -- to groups
from more than 60 countries. Security threats and civil strife have disrupted
plans for U.S. officials to interview refugees at some sites, particularly in
Africa.

And the program suffered a further setback as U.S. officials discovered
widespread fraud and misrepresentation in a program allowing close relatives of
U.S. residents to apply for refugee status, most of them Africans. The INS is
reviewing all "family relationship" cases.

U.S. officials say they remain committed to the refugee program, although the
number of annual admissions has been dropping from a high of 132,000 in 1992.
The State Department is trying to identify new groups in Russia, Africa and
South America that could be considered eligible and is providing the United
Nations with millions of dollars to expand its programs of refugee resettlement.

But that brings little cheer to families who applied two, three or more years
ago for relatives.

Guleid and her husband have been apart since 1988, when he took her and their
three daughters to Cairo to escape growing violence. He then returned to his job
in Somalia -- occasionally flying back to visit until his homeland exploded in
civil war in 1992. He fled to the countryside, and the couple lost contact.

Guleid and her daughters arrived in Virginia as refugees in 1998. A year later,
the miracle happened: Her husband, Yusuf Ali Hassan, was found in Djibouti.

On a black-checked couch in her tiny Fairfax apartment, Guleid spreads out her
husband's refugee papers, like talismans she hopes will lead him to Virginia.
She is regal in a floor-length red dress, plaid head-scarf and shiny gold shawl,
and her eyes snap with energy.

But she is growing increasingly desperate.

"The main thing is missing. The children [are] without father. The woman is
sick," she said, referring to her own rheumatism and high blood pressure.
"What's the life?"

It has been nearly a year since she signed the papers confirming that she was
ready to receive her husband. That, she thought, signaled the end of the refugee
process. But she recently learned that her husband was awaiting his security
clearance, apparently required since Somalia has been linked to terrorism.

"Wait clearance?" she shrieked. "A 65-year-old man? I'm 62! Is there time to
wait?"

The frustration has compounded the difficulties of adjusting to this new life in
the United States. To Guleid, the streets seem sinister. She generally stays
inside, paralyzed by the uncertainty over her husband and her family's future.

"He's worrying alone, 'What can we do?' I'm worrying alone, 'What can we do?' "
she said, twirling a finger at her temple.

The frustration also weighs on Guleid's daughters, who range in age from 19 to
27. Two commute to college, and one works at a bank. In accordance with her
Muslim traditions, Guleid prohibits them from going on dates. But there is no
father to take the young women to the movies or social events. So they stay
home.

When they cry, Guleid puts on a brave face. "It doesn't matter. It doesn't
matter," she consoles them.

Then she goes into the small kitchen and weeps alone.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Washington Post


                              655 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                     February 23, 2003 Sunday Home Edition

New world awaits Bantus seeking refuge in Atlanta

BYLINE: MARK BIXLER

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: News; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1428 words


Sometime this spring, in cities around the United States, the first of nearly
12,000 African refugees will step off airplanes and into a modern world as alien
and strange as the bottom of the ocean. They will come with hopes of work,
education and safety, at last, from a legacy of persecution.

They are Somali Bantus, a people devastated by massacre and rape after Somalia
crumbled into civil war in 1991. Thousands left rural homes for refugee camps in
Kenya. They have languished there for the last dozen years. Now the United
States is opening its doors to the Bantus in one of the most ambitious and
complex refugee resettlement initiatives in recent years.

The U.S. State Department says it has approved plans to resettle the Bantus in
31 states, including Georgia, Florida, Kentucky, North Carolina, South Carolina,
Tennessee and Virginia. Refugee resettlement agencies expect to shepherd up to
635 Bantus in the next two years into apartments in Clarkston, Decatur and Stone
Mountain.

That will make metro Atlanta one of the top destinations for Somali Bantus,
along with Dallas, Houston, Phoenix and Salt Lake City, the State Department
said.

A cultural challenge

They will come in need of more help than most refugees. Few speak English. Many
cannot read or write even in their native language. Only in the last few months
have most seen telephones, flush toilets and clocks, in classes on American
culture at the Kakuma Refugee Camp, on the sweltering plain of northwest Kenya.
Some saw a bathtub for the first time and asked whether it was some sort of
boat, said Sasha Chanoff, who coordinates the classes for the International
Organization for Migration.

"They really don't have any exposure to modern development," he said.

The Bantus are descended from natives of Malawi, Mozambique and Tanzania who
were enslaved and taken to Somalia in the 1800s. They eventually won freedom but
remained frequent victims of discrimination. They performed menial jobs and
lacked political power and access to education. The Bantus also lacked clan
affiliation, which made them easy prey for all sides in Somalia's civil war.

The Mushunguli

The U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees sought to resettle the Bantus in one of
their ancestral homes, Mozambique, but that plan fell through in 1997. Two years
later, the State Department recognized the Bantus as a group eligible for
resettlement on humanitarian grounds.

The Somali Bantus will follow 807,000 refugees admitted to the United States in
the last 10 years, but they come at a time of increased scrutiny. The United
States suspended its refugee program for two months after Sept. 11, 2001.
Resettlements resumed with security measures that slowed the flow. Only 27,000
of 70,000 refugees approved to enter in the United States actually came last
year, the lowest number since 1980.

There are various groups of Bantus, but the ones coming to the United States are
those who volunteered to go to Mozambique in 1997. Nearly all belong to a Bantu
branch called the Mushunguli. They were subsistence farmers who shunned society.
Other Somalis sometimes refer to them with derogatory terms such as jareer,
which refers to the characteristic kinky hair of Bantus, gosha, a Somali term
for "forest dweller" and adoon, which means "slave."

That puts resettlement agencies in a tricky spot. They need Somali-speaking
caseworkers but must find staffers able to give even-handed treatment. Agencies
also know that most Bantus have led such an isolated existence that "when asked
where they entered Kenya," the International Organization for Migration says,
"many Somali Bantus responded, 'At the tall metal,' indicating metal telephone
towers" at a border town.

"Do not assume they can open a door just because it has a doorknob," Chanoff
said.

No concept of time

Like people of several other cultures, the Bantus do not share the American
preoccupation with time. They often date important events such as a birth by
referring to some natural phenomenon that occurred at that time.

"Where does one begin with people who have never held a pen or read a sign, who
have no support network . . . and have no previous information about life in the
United States?" Chanoff wrote in a November issue of Refugee Reports, a
newsletter published by Immigration and Refugee Services of America.

"How does one begin to teach the relevance of time and dates and schedules? What
about sensitizing people to the nuances of shopping and cooking and eating, when
they won't recognize food in the supermarkets? How does one prevent children
from sticking a finger into an electric socket or garbage disposal, falling down
stairs, scalding themselves with a faucet or straying into the road?"

Resettlement agencies say the Bantus are unlikely to absorb all the lessons they
receive in 10-day sessions at Kakuma that also cover U.S. laws, employment,
housing and budgets. They envision months of orientation once the refugees
arrive in America.

"It's going to take a lot of repetition, a lot of times of saying, 'Don't touch
the hot stove. Don't touch the hot stove,' " said Mondie Blalock Tharp of
Refugee Resettlement and Immigration Services of Atlanta.

Many resettlement agencies are looking for additional funding to extend the four
months' assistance refugees typically receive, said Christine Petrie, national
resettlement director for the International Rescue Committee.

In Atlanta, four resettlement agencies are talking about applying for grants
that would pay for intensive English classes, day care and instruction in riding
MARTA and using kitchen appliances.

About 4,000 Somalis have been resettled in Georgia since 1992, mostly in
Clarkston. About 1,000 left for Lewiston, Maine, in search of better schools,
less crime and more generous housing subsidies and welfare benefits.

Among the Somalis still in Atlanta are about 120 Bantus. They form one of the
largest Bantu communities in the country, said Abdullahi Abdullahi, a Somali
Bantu and executive director of the Somali Bantu Community Organization in
Clarkston.

43 cities make room

The State Department said it plans to resettle Bantus in 43 cities, including
Atlanta.

At least one city opposed plans to accept Bantus. The City Council in Holyoke,
Mass., voted in October to reject nearly $1 million in federal money for a
"newcomer center." The city said it lacked money --- even with the grant --- to
house and educate the refugees. The vote was largely symbolic because cities
don't control federal money and can't legally prevent people from moving in.

Since 1980, 48,000 refugees have been resettled in Georgia from countries as
varied as Afghanistan, Bosnia, Iraq and Vietnam. Few faced challenges similar to
those facing the Bantus, but experts draw parallels with two groups.

Several thousand Hmong refugees from Laos resettled in this country in the '70s
and '80s with as little understanding of the modern world as the Bantus. Like
the Bantus, the Hmong spoke little English, lacked formal education and knew
little of Western culture. Both have views of health care at odds with Western
medicine.

Some of the resettled Hmong retained their native language and religion and have
limited contact with native-born Americans. Others converted to Christianity and
blended into the mainstream, said Deborah Duchon, an anthropologist at Georgia
State University.

'Massive hurdles'

The 12,000 Bantus also invite comparison to 3,800 Sudanese refugees who were
resettled around the United States in 2000 and 2001.

Like the Bantus, these men in their late teens and early 20s, known as the Lost
Boys of Sudan, grew up without exposure to modern life. Yet even the Lost Boys
had a leg up on the Bantus: Most knew of a developed world beyond the horizon,
having caught glimpses of it on TV during eight years in a refugee camp.

"We knew a lot of things in theory, but not in practice" is how one Lost Boy in
Atlanta, Peter Anyang, put it.

Most Bantus first learned of gas ovens and electric stoves in classes after
11,800 of them were moved to Kakuma from the Dadaab Refugee Camp, near Somalia's
border.

"All of us realize that it's going to take a Herculean effort to go far beyond
what we normally do," said Barbara Cocchi, Atlanta director for World Relief, a
refugee resettlement agency. "We realize the massive hurdles that they're going
to have to overcome."

ON THE WEB:

* For more information about the Somali Bantus: www.refugees.
org/world/articles/RR_november_2002_lead.cfm

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Somali Bantus line up at a Kenyan refugee camp's processing
center before boarding buses for a camp near the Sudan border. From there, the
11,800 Bantus will be coming to live in 43 U.S. cities, including Atlanta. /
MICHAEL ROBINSON-CHAVEZ / Washington Post; Photo: In the first stages of their
trip to Atlanta, Somali Bantus line up at the Dadaab Refugee Camp in eastern
Kenya to travel to the Kakuma Refugee Camp near Sudan. / MICHAEL ROBINSON-CHAVEZ
/ Washington Post; Photo: The Bantus make do with just the barest of necessities
at both refugee camps where they have lived. Most have no idea of the modern
world that awaits them in America. / MONDIE BLALOCK THARPE / Special; Graphic:
ABOUT SOMALIA

* Size: 246,200 square miles (about four times the size of Georgia)

* Capital: Mogadishu

* Population: 7,753,310 (July 2002 estimate)

* Racial/ethnic groups: Somali 85 percent, Bantu and other non-Somali 15 percent
(including 30,000 Arabs)

* Religion: Mostly Sunni Muslim

* Government: Transitional government formed in August 2000, with a mandate to
hold elections within three years.

* Head of government: Salad Hassan Abdikassim

* Economy: One of the world's poorest, least developed countries. Since 1991,
much of the economy has been devastated by civil war.
Sources: CIA World Factbook, World Book Encyclopedia; Photo: Somali Bantu
children will soon be leaving the Kakuma Refugee Camp in Kenya. / MONDIE BLALOCK
THARPE / Special; Map: SOMALIA REFUGEES
This spring, the United States will resettle the first of 11,800 Somalia Bantu
refugees. They have never been to the modern world.
Map shows Somalia and Kenya and the sites numbered 1-3 below:
1. Dugiuma, Somalia
The Somali Bantus coming to the United States lived in remote farms along the
Juba River of southern Somalia. Militias massacred many Bantus after a civil war
began in 1991. Thousands of Bantus escaped by walking for five to 15 days to
Kenya.
2. Dadaab, Kenya
Several thousand Bantus joined 135,000 refugees in three sprawling camps in
Dadaab, Kenya. They lived there for the next 12 years. The United Nations says
many Bantu women were raped. Others were shot or robbed.
3. Kakuma, Kenya
Last fall, 23 bus convoys transported 11,800 Somali Bantus on a three-day
journey to the Kakuma Refugee Camp. From there, they will fly to the United
States.
Source: International Organization for Migration
Inset map highlights area of detail in Africa. / ROB SMOAK / Staff; Graphic:
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
The nonprofit agencies that will resettle Somali Bantus need volunteers. Those
interested can contact these agencies:

* International Rescue Committee: 404-292-7731

* Lutheran Ministries of Georgia: 404-875-0201

* Refugee Resettlement and Immigration Services of Atlanta: 404-622-2235

* World Relief: 404-294-4352

                Copyright 2003 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              656 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 29, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Security Concerns Trap Thousands in Kenyan Camp

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1462 words

DATELINE: KAKUMA, Kenya, Jan. 24


Behind the barbed wire, in this vast, ramshackle refugee camp, thousands of
people fleeing war-torn countries are desperately waiting for their tickets to
America.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has already approved about 17,000
refugees here for resettlement in the United States. Yet most of them have
languished for months, battling hunger and crime in camps as the United States
has struggled to streamline security measures introduced in the aftermath of
Sept. 11.

Backlogs in the new security and fraud checks -- which require the F.B.I. and
the C.I.A. to review the names of refugees fleeing terrorist hot spots -- have
delayed the arrival of tens of thousands of refugees worldwide, particularly
those from predominantly Muslim countries in Africa and the Middle East.

The State Department, which oversees the refugee program, says no terrorists
have been found among the refugees screened and approved by the I.N.S., and
officials say they are trying to speed up the process.

But the cumbersome procedures are already taking their toll. Only about 27,000
of the 70,000 refugees expected to arrive in the United States last year
actually made it -- the lowest number in 25 years.

"Sometimes, I think America has forgotten us," said Jacob Aciek Ayol, a
23-year-old refugee from Sudan, who said he had been approved by the I.N.S.
before Sept. 11. "They approved us so long ago. We have been dreaming of
America, but we are still here, and we don't know what to do."

Meanwhile, they wait. In this dismal camp, where bullets fly at nightfall,
hundreds of refugees have been waiting for security clearances for a year and a
half. This month, a Sudanese woman who had been approved by the I.N.S was raped
and shot to death as she awaited her family's security clearance, officials here
say.

Seventy percent of children here are already at risk of malnutrition, and the
food situation is growing worse. The World Food Program recently announced that
it would have to cut rations, unless more donations come in, even though most
people already eat only once a day.

The story of the stranded refugees highlights the Bush administration's struggle
to balance security concerns in the post-Sept. 11 era with America's
longstanding commitment to refugees fleeing persecution and immigrants seeking
better lives.

American officials acknowledge that the new security procedures have created
some hardships for innocent people, but they say the terrorist attacks on the
United States made it clear that a tougher approach to screening refugees was
needed to ensure public safety.

The new measures, in addition to the security checks, limit to 35 the number of
refugees allowed to travel on any given flight to the United States, to allow
time for fingerprinting at American airports.

They also call for scrutiny of people applying for refugee status as close
relatives of refugees already living in America. Investigators say they have
found people misrepresenting themselves as relatives in 40 percent of approved
family reunification cases worldwide.

But here in East Africa, it is clearly the surging demand for security checks
that has created most of the backlog.

The mounting requests for background checks quickly flooded the F.B.I. and
C.I.A, where workers must compare thousands of refugees with reputed terrorists
of similar ages and names, officials say.

The officials also blame poor interagency communication for many of the delays.
Computer systems in the law enforcement agencies, they say, do not readily
communicate with the systems at the State Department, which is ultimately
responsible for refugee cases.

The government says it has made changes, including hiring more staff members,
improving computer links and purchasing more fingerprinting machines.

"We truly are as concerned as anyone about delays that impact on the processing
and admission of refugees eligible to come into this country," said a senior
State Department official, who spoke on condition of anonymity.

"Over the past year, there has been a significant increase in the amount of work
that has had to be done in terms of background checks," the official said in a
telephone interview from Washington. "There's a tremendous demand in terms of
human resources.

"As with any new set of measures, implementation wasn't always as smooth as we
would have wished," he said.

Refugee workers here and abroad agree that the pace of resettlement is slowly
picking up, although only a small fraction of the 50,000 refugee slots allotted
for the current fiscal year have arrived so far.

They remain concerned. Delays breed delays. Medical clearances expire while
refugees await background checks, and then they have to be renewed. Security
clearances hold up even those relatives who are not suspected of being
terrorists.

Entire families, including young children and elderly women, must wait when a
security check is required for a man in a given family, even though the children
and elderly women are not considered security risks.

The processing of a refugee destined for the United States, which once took
about six months here, can now take more than a year. In recent months, the
United Nations has begun referring particularly urgent cases to Canada and
Scandinavian countries because the processing time is shorter.

"We're very much concerned that people are at risk, but also that the United
States tradition is at risk," said Robert Carey, vice president of the
International Rescue Committee, one of the largest resettlement agencies in the
United States. "The United States has traditionally set the lead on the human
response to refugees.

"But now there's a lot of concern that immigration functions are being subsumed
into enforcement and that humanitarian responses will be ratcheted down in terms
of priorities," Mr. Carey said in a telephone interview from New York.
"Certainly what we're seeing now would reflect that."

The challenges involved in screening refugees are plainly visible here in this
camp, which sits just south of Kenya's border with Sudan. The relentless sun
sears the parched red soil, turning rivers into dry sand and leaving thorn
trees, withered cactuses and weary refugees struggling to survive.

About 82,000 refugees live here, and almost all of them would require background
checks to be considered for admission to the United States. Most people here
have fled Sudan and Somalia, countries long considered breeding grounds for
terrorism.

Kenya is no stranger to organized violence either. Terrorists working in Kenya
blew up the American Embassy in 1998 and an Israeli-owned hotel in November. In
December, some refugees here -- who were not destined for the United States --
complained that Al Qaeda was operating in the camp.

The accusations were dismissed after an investigation by the United Nations that
received assistance from the United States. But I.N.S. officials had to stop
processing cases for more than a month, until the allegations about terrorists
in the camp were fully investigated.

Most delays, though, occur during processing of security checks in Washington
where officials pore through databases of suspected terrorists and often come up
with several names similar to the names of refugees.

Sometimes it is clear that the refugee in question is not the terrorist in the
F.B.I. database: if the suspected terrorist is 25 years old and the refugee is
50, for instance.

But often it is not easy to make that calculation. Officials in Washington put
holds on refugees who have similar names and dates of birth that fall close to
those of terrorist suspects on file.

The refugees who fall into that category wait in limbo, including several
hundred Sudanese young men known as the Lost Boys. The boys fled their country's
fractious civil war more than a decade ago, and the United States agreed to
admit more than 3,000.

But more than 300 who were approved by I.N.S. for admission to America before
Sept. 11 are still waiting for security clearances, according to the United
Nations, which runs this camp.

Peter Akoijak, 26, said he was approved by I.N.S. in August 2001. Jacob Chol
Dau, 19, said he was approved that same month. Chol Mamiir Paulino was approved
a month later, just before the Sept. 11 attacks. No one knows what has happened
to their cases and whether they will ever be allowed to leave here.

When word spread that an American visitor had arrived in the camp, the Sudanese
young men flew on their shabby bicycles, hoping for some good news. They waited
for hours in the blistering sun, only to discover that the visitor was a
journalist, not an official.

The young men conferred with one another and decided that even this visitor was
better than nothing. "Sing our song in America," they begged. "Tell them we are
still here."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A woman sweeping the entrance of her house in the Sudanese
section of the Kakuma camp. About 82,000 refugees live at the camp.; Sudanese
refugees in a classroom in the Kakuma refugee camp in northern Kenya. Many are
waiting for the outcome of American security checks.; A Sudanese man outside his
house. Many at Kakuma were among the Lost Boys, orphans who banded together to
survive war in Sudan. (Photographs by Joao Silva for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              657 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

                     January 20, 2003 Monday Final Edition

Head of group that helps refugees

SOURCE: AP

SECTION: News; Pg. E13

LENGTH: 199 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK

Charles Sternberg, who fled Nazi persecution and went on to head the largest
private American refugee-assistance organization, has died. He was 91.

Sternberg was executive director of the International Rescue Committee from 1965
to 1985. Under his stewardship, the organization's budget rose from $1.2 million
U.S. to $22.1 million.

The group has helped feed, shelter and resettle millions of refugees around the
world, from Cuba and Latin America to Southeast Asia, the former Soviet bloc and
Africa.

Sternberg, who died Thursday, was born in 1911 in Moravia, which was then part
of the Austrian empire. He studied law in Prague before working for 20th Century
Fox there.

In 1938, Sternberg fled to France. After the Nazis stormed Paris, he bicycled to
Marseille, France, where he helped others escape the country. He fled to the
United States in 1942.

Sternberg joined the United States army and spent the rest of the war years
working for the Czech-language division of its Office of European Economic
Research. He then joined the International Rescue Committee, working first in
Germany and then in New York.

His wife, Irma Kadmon, also worked for the organization.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary

               Copyright 2003 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              658 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           December 22, 2002, Sunday

SECRET ARMY TO TOPPLE SADDAM;
 REFUGEES IN SCOTLAND ARE RECRUITED

BYLINE: Steve Mckenzie Exclusive

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 426 words


IRAQI refugees sheltering in Scotland are being recruited to a secret army to
help fight the war against Saddam Hussein.

America is pumping pounds 60million into training the militia - a force of war
veterans and young Iraqis opposed to the tyrant's regime.

Scotland is home to almost 1000 refugees who fled persecution in Iraq.

Many are prepared to fight the man who forced them from their country.

A spokesman for the Iraqi National Congress said: "We are recruiting Iraqis from
all over the UK.

"There is national service in Iraq, so most Iraqi men have had military
training.

"Saddam has kept his country at war, so many of them have had combat
experience."

Iraqis, Afghans and Somalis are the biggest exiled nationalities among the 5000
refugees in Scotland.

Earlier this month, US President George Bush gave the green light for massive
funding for the training of an opposition army.

But details of the training and the identities of those who have signed up are
being kept ultra-secret. It is understood most will act as interpreters
alongside US troops but will also get light-weapons training.

The INC official said: "We had a meeting with the Americans and they told us
they don't want any media coverage at all with this.

"They've pretty much demanded that we keep quiet about it. In fact, they are
making people sign nondisclosure forms."

He added: "We have recruited a number from the UK and I wouldn't be surprised
that there will be somebody from Scotland.

"We compile lists, giving people's details and hand it over to the Americans.
They then sift through the lists.

"Fit and healthy men with no military experience are also being recruited. No
age limit has been set and officers have also been asked to join.

"They have told us that training would be outside the US."

The Hungarian government have confirmed that they received a formal request from
the US government to set up a training camp at Taszar, near the Serbian border.

As many as 5000 Iraqis could be trained at the base, which was used by the
Americans during bombing of the Serbs in 1999.

It has been used as a staging post for NATO peacekeepers in Bosnia since 1995.

The thinking behind the militia is that officers in Saddam's army would be
prepared to defect to a unit of Iraqis rather than surrender to the Americans or
British.

A 65-member committee made up of Iraqi leaders opposed to Saddam will meet on
January 15 in Kurdistan.

It follows a conference in London on a future government of Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.


                              659 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                     December 13, 2002 Friday Final Edition

Arrest sheds new light on Algerian connection

SOURCE: Ottawa Citizen

BYLINE: Andrew Duffy

SECTION: News; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 336 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA

The arrest in Vanier of an Algerian refugee with suspected terrorist links has
once again turned a spotlight on Canada's Algerian connection. It's one that has
already produced a handful of high-profile arrests in the international war on
terrorism.

Terrorism experts say Algerian extremists -- and those from other
French-speaking North African countries -- have always regarded Canada as an
ideal staging area.

"Here you have everything they could want: a cosmopolitan French-speaking
centre, Montreal, on the very doorway of the United States and major U.S. target
cities," said David Harris, former director of strategic planning at the
Canadian Security Intelligence Service.

In addition, Harris said, Canada's overburdened refugee system has ensured
newcomers go through only a rudimentary security screening process.

"Canada has been notorious for being relaxed in terms of its refugee acceptance
and generous in terms of its settlement assistance," he said.

Convicted terrorist Ahmed Ressam remains the most notorious member of Canada's
Algerian connection.

Ressam, a failed Algerian refugee claimant based in Montreal, was convicted last
April in the United States on a series of terrorism-related charges for his
involvement in a plot to blow up the Los Angeles International Airport.

He has proven to be a valuable source of intelligence about his own
Montreal-based terrorist cell and the al-Qaeda network to which it was linked.

The members of Ressam's terrorist cell were drawn largely from that city's
Algerian community. They were men such as Fateh Kamel, Mustapha Labsi, Adel
Boumezbeur, Mokhtar Haouari and Abdelmajid Dahoumane, all of whom are now in
custody or wanted in relation to terrorist activity.

Ressam, who trained in an al-Qaeda camp in Afghanistan, has been co-operative
with U.S. officials after prosecutors offered to reduce his sentence to 24 years
from 130. He has supplied extensive information about the operations of the
Kamel cell and the Afghanistan camps.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Crime

               Copyright 2002 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              660 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                 Ottawa Citizen

                     November 8, 2002 Friday Final Edition

Let them eat ... nothing

SOURCE: The Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: News; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 212 words

The government of Zambia is willing to see three million of its people suffer
malnutrition or starvation because it won't let them eat genetically modified
(GM) corn donated by the United States. This despite the fact there is no
evidence that GM food poses a health risk.

Just this week, Zambian officials lambasted international aid workers for
distributing GM corn to 125,000 refugees sheltering in five camps in the
country's northwest. The aid workers defended their action, saying they had no
other food to distribute.

The aid workers are right. They are on the front line of southern Africa's food
crisis and know better than a bureaucrat sitting in Zambia's capital how
desperate the situation has become. It would be immoral for them not to
distribute the donated corn to refugees -- or anyone else -- who have nothing to
eat. This is not a case of sending substandard food to Africa. North Americans
have been eating genetically modified foods for years with no evidence that it
is detrimental to their health.

Drought, famine and mismanagement have created a severe food shortage across
much of southern Africa. Zambian officials may convince themselves it's right to
prevent people eating GM corn. In fact, it's sentencing some of them to death.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

               Copyright 2002 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              661 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                 Ottawa Citizen

                    September 13, 2002 Friday Final Edition

Lax refugee rules still a security risk

SOURCE: The Ottawa Citizen

BYLINE: Ross Reid

SECTION: News; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 396 words

Editor's note: The Citizen invited several people who wrote letters after the
Sept. 11 terrorist attacks to comment on life one year later. This is one of a
series of their follow-up letters.

In the wake of unprecedented breaches of security, many fingers had been pointed
to Canada as a revolving door for terrorists, who see our country as a training
ground and easy access point to the world's longest undefended border into the
United States.

The Americans have recognized many of their own security shortcomings and have
taken significant steps toward preventing further attacks against U.S. targets.
But some of their security threats originate on this side of the border, and not
much has changed since Sept. 11.

While Denis Coderre, the minister of citizenship and immigration, unveiled the
new Immigration and Refugee Protection Act on June 28, which introduced
permanent resident cards for new immigrants, many individuals can still filter
into Canada via the easier refugee route.

The Canadian definition of a "refugee" is so broad it could encompass more than
half the population of the world.

Any people landing at a Canadian port of entry would likely be accepted as a
refugee if return to their country of origin meant they might suffer "hardship,
persecution, or risk of cruel and unusual treatment."

How could we refuse any citizens from countries run by cruel dictators, or those
of the war-torn starving nations of the African continent? Are women who are
treated as second-class citizens by strict religious regimes facing cruel and
unusual treatment?

At the same time, we have seen that terrorist groups, such as Hamas, will use
the lives of any man, woman or child to further their cause; no individual
making a refugee claim should be above suspicion of such links.

Some refugee claimants are allowed to live in Canada while their status is being
determined, only to fade into a network of illegal aliens living within our
borders. Though some effort has been made to improve our national security, do
these new initiatives go far enough?

Stories of provincial police tracking terrorist cells only until they've left
the province don't fill me with confidence, though the Canadian governments
believe they've got the problem solved. I hope they're right.

The cost of being wrong could be disastrous -- again.

Ross Reid,

Kemptville

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Major, The Ottawa Citizen; Ross Reid says Canada will be an
easy source of entry for terrorists as long as its refugee rules remain broad
and poorly enforced.

TYPE: Letter

               Copyright 2002 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              662 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           September 5, 2002 Thursday

Paris embassy official bribed for visas

BYLINE: COLIN FREEZE

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 648 words


An official at a Canadian embassy took bribes and wrongly issued travel
documents to people who went on to claim refugee status in North America,
government documents show.

The official in question "issued many visas inappropriately to members of two
communities, accepted gifts, and displayed a colossal lack of judgment,"
according to internal Citizenship and Immigration Canada reports.

The documents, which indicate the incident took place in Paris, add that
"several of the visa recipients claimed refugee status in Canada or the USA."
The visa incident occurred in 2000. It is one of several examples of corruption
and breaches of security outlined in "monthly malfeasance reports" from
November, 2000, to November, 2001, obtained through the Access to Information
Act. Details on this and other cases are sketchy as the file has been heavily
edited, with most portions blanked out by Ottawa officials.

For example, the "communities" that benefited are not named. Nor are the numbers
of people who received visas or how many went on to seek refugee status.

French citizens do not require visas to travel to Canada. Residents of several
French-speaking African countries nearby require visas, however.

In recent years, Canada has seen Tunisians and Algerians among the more frequent
French-language refugee claimants.

Richard Kurland, a Vancouver-based immigration lawyer and researcher, obtained
the report. "This is unacceptable after Sept. 11," he said, adding that similar
reports previously released show corruption to be a persistent problem.

"Immigration is incapable of cleaning its own house and it must bring outsiders
in to conduct an investigation," he said. "The passage of time proves
Immigration can't do it or won't do it."

   The documents outline other incidents of what the government calls
malfeasance.

In Belgrade, a Canadian embassy worker accused of stealing at least $43,000 in
1993 did not get to court until 2001. He filed an unsuccessful grievance against
the government after he was fired for breach of trust.

The criminal issue remained unresolved as of last year.

Documents indicate that problems are not limited to missions abroad.

Two Ontario-based bureaucrats did immigration-consulting jobs on the side -
while on the government's payroll.

In one case last year, a citizenship officer complained that a co-worker was
"facilitating citizenship applications."

This prompted a fact-finding mission, which uncovered "irregularities" in
fast-tracked applications.

No further information is available.

The previous year, a telephone operator who worked at an immigration call centre
in the Toronto area was "alleged to be receiving calls on . . . [a] secondary
office line from persons possibly seeking immigration assistance privately."

Investigators suspected a "possible conflict of interest" but had trouble
tracking down the employee for questions.

"Employee is evading contact with investigators," reads the report.

"Although little can be proven, it should be noted the calls have stopped," the
documents say.

There have been other allegations of corruption within Canada's immigration
system.

Two years ago, an internal government report shows that Canadian missions
overseas were unwittingly hiring criminals who were demanding bribes for visas -
and that allegations of theft, bribery and other offences steadily increased.

In that report, 197 cases of malfeasance were investigated from 1996 to 1999,
and 45 staff members were found to have engaged in misconduct.

Every overseas offence involved foreign staff members who were hired because of
their familiarity with a country's language and culture.

The report says that the Immigration Department's professional-conduct branch
found that the caseload of allegations has been growing steadily since 1996,
though the number of individuals caught has stayed about the same.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2002 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              663 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                    September 4, 2002 Wednesday Home Edition

REMEMBER 9/11: THE QUEST FOR ASYLUM: Fears over security strand refugees

BYLINE: DON MELVIN

SOURCE: Cox Washington Bureau

SECTION: Atlanta & the World; Pg. 2F

LENGTH: 1076 words


London --- Every war has untended consequences. Advocates say the "collateral
damage" in the war against terrorism has included some of the world's most
vulnerable people: refugees fleeing persecution in their homelands.

"Sept. 11 came at a time when there was already increasing negativity toward
refugees and asylum seekers," said Eve Lester, refugee coordinator for Amnesty
International, the London-based human rights group. "Sept. 11 has added a
complicating factor to an already difficult situation."

In the months since the terrorist attacks, the United States has dramatically
slowed its refugee resettlement program. Other countries have followed suit.

The result is that people in fear of persecution often languish in refugee camps
where they cannot live safe or productive lives. The risks in refugee camps are
well documented. Recently, rapes have been reported in camps in Kenya, and in
April two Rwandan refugee children were murdered in Nairobi. In Guinea, security
is so poor that food aid sometimes does not reach those who need it most.

Those who work with refugees realize that countries need to keep their people
safe. But they note that none of the people involved in the Sept. 11 attacks
entered the United States as a refugee.

"As a colleague of mine said: Sitting in a refugee camp would not be the most
intelligent way to come here as a terrorist, because you could sit there for
years," said Bob Carey, a vice president of the International Rescue Committee,
which helps resettle refugees in the United States.

After the attacks, the U.S. refugee program was halted for two months. In late
November, President Bush said the country would accept 70,000 refugees during
the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30.

But as of July 31, only 20,417 had been let in. Officials of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service acknowledge that they will not come close to the goal of
70,000.

"Who are these 50,000 people who won't get to come?" asked Lavinia Limon, who
directs the U.S. Committee for Refugees, an advocacy group. "Most are children
and vulnerable women living in very precarious situations. Now they are waiting
around for these security clearances. It's very disturbing from a humanitarian
point of view."

Limon also is concerned by anti-immigrant rhetoric that has cropped up in
European countries.

"I'm very worried refugees will become collateral damage in the war on
terrorism," she said. "These are people who by definition are fleeing terror.
Without U.S. leadership, the concern is that countries will become so cautious
that as a whole the community of nations won't live up to its obligations."

INS officials cite several reasons for the slowdown: Two months were lost before
Bush decided on the number. More stringent fingerprinting requirements mean that
no more than 35 refugees can arrive on one plane, and they can land at only five
U.S. airports: Chicago; Miami; Los Angeles; Newark, N.J.; and John F. Kennedy
International Airport in New York.

"We're trying to balance security and safety with offering a safe haven to those
fleeing persecution," said Kimberly Weissman, an INS spokeswoman.

The slowdown has had effects around the world.

Refugees from Latin America and the Caribbean are having much more difficulty
reaching the United States, even though most countries in the region have no
history of terrorism directed at United States.

"There's all kind of fingerprinting and background checks going on," said Randy
McCrory, an attorney for Catholic Legal Services in Miami who works with
refugees and immigrants. "Across the board, it's a much more cumbersome
process."

The new restrictions come as the numbers of would-be immigrants from Latin
America are swelling due to economic turmoil in Argentina, political instability
in Venezuela and the long-running guerrilla war in Colombia.

For Mexico, one casualty of the war on terrorism has been the collapse of
progress toward a migration accord with the United States. President Vicente Fox
is still pursuing an agreement that might offer legal work visas to up to
several million undocumented Mexicans currently working in the United States.
But progress froze after Sept. 11.

It is not only the United States that has tightened control of its borders.
Asylum seekers from Asia and the Middle East who once saw Australia as an
attractive target are looking elsewhere because Australia's stance toward
refugees has hardened in the past year.

Shortly before the Sept. 11 attacks, Prime Minister John Howard's government
refused entry into its waters to a boatload of mostly Afghan refugees who had
been rescued from a sinking ferry. Since then, more boats filled with asylum
seekers have been turned away.

Howard's policies have received support thanks to anti-immigrant sentiment
heightened by fears of terrorism. His stance even helped him win re-election
last November after he had appeared headed for defeat. Australia says potential
asylum seekers now head for other countries, especially in Europe.

But European countries are hardening their attitudes as well. Recently, Britain
said it would begin to deport Afghans who fail to prove their asylum claims.
Italy has said it will use its term as president of the European Union in 2003
to push to tighten the borders of the entire 15-nation confederation.

The restrictions have hit particularly hard in Africa, source of many of the
world's refugees. And Africans are not languishing in refugee camps only. The
number of internally displaced people within African countries seems to be
increasing, said Roberta Cohen, a senior adviser to the U.N. secretary-general's
representative for internally displaced persons.

Many advocates are lobbying the Bush administration to set the goal for next
year at 100,000 new refugees.

"In some ways this is about who we are as a nation," said Limon of the U.S.
Committee for Refugees. "If we stand for freedom, then we have to be willing to
share it with this small number of people deemed as those most in trouble in the
world."

That holds not only for the United States, but for the rest of the world, too,
said Lester of Amnesty International.

"If we sell out now the basic rights that people have to protection," she said,
"then in a sense we sell our souls."

Cox Newspapers correspondents Mike Williams in Miami, Julie Chao in Beijing and
Susan Ferriss in Mexico City contributed to this article.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: REMEMBER 9/11

GRAPHIC: Photo: Afghan girls attend a school in a refugee camp near Peshawar,
Pakistan, last year. Hardening attitudes and fears about security in the wake of
Sept. 11 have left refugees facing new hurdles./ SHABBIR HUSSAIN IMAM /
Associated Press; Graphic: REFUGEE MAXIMUMS
The maximum number of refugees that can be admitted to the U.S. in fiscal 2002,
by region.
Africa..................... 22,000
East Asia................... 4,000
Eastern Europe................9,000
Former Soviet Union..........17,000
Latin America/Caribbean..... 3,000
Near East/South Asia....... 15,000
Reserve*......................4,000 (approximately)
*Admissions are set aside for an emergency situation.
Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service / Staff
ME: Part of the fourth installment of the eleven-part series REMEMBER 9/11
commemorating the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, September
11, 2001.

TYPE: Series

                Copyright 2002 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                              664 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                  Toronto Star

                    August 1, 2002 Thursday Ontario Edition

Refugee agencies suggest dozens of pilgrims may request asylum

BYLINE: Natalie Alcoba and Leslie Scrivener, Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 544 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Less than 10 formal applications have been filed so far

Natalie Alcoba

and Leslie Scrivener

He was walking in his hometown in El Salvador one night last February when four
masked men seized him, beat and robbed him, then threatened to kill him.

"Shut up or we'll shut you up," they hissed.

The 25-year-old man, who would not give his name out of fear for his safety, is
one of dozens of World Youth Day pilgrims who have asked Toronto's refugee aid
organizations for help in seeking asylum in Canada.

Sixteen Latin Americans - nine from Honduras, five from El Salvador and two from
Colombia - visited the Quaker Committee for Refugees this week asking what they
must do to apply for refugee status.

Another 30 participants from Latin America, Africa and Europe went to First
Contact, a refugee program of the Red Cross, seeking information on making a
claim.

There are also 23 Cubans and nine Angolans who failed to join their groups at
the airport for the return trip home.

It's not known how many will follow through with a formal application, but there
are fewer than 10 refugee claims filed so far, according to an official with
Citizenship and Immigration Canada who refused to give the exact number.

Among those who have applied is a 24-year-old Colombian engineering student, who
filed a claim before World Youth Day began.

He said paramilitary groups in his homeland - one of the most violent areas on
Earth, where 35,000 have perished in four decades of civil war - asked for his
expertise but he refused. His family is now on the run, he said, to avoid
kidnapping.

Without the fear he will be killed or the stress of being constantly watched,
the man hopes to find the tranquility in Canada that eluded him in Colombia.

He said he was overwhelmed by the warmth and sense of people caring for one
another he discovered in Canada. Now staying with friends he made during World
Youth Day, he said it's difficult to accept the fact he may never see his family
again. Yet, he has no regrets.

"It is better to be alive and far away, rather than close by and dead."

Meanwhile, the young Salvadoran said he isn't sure who his attackers were, but
suspects they were associated with the military. He believes he was attacked
because he has friends who are active in the human rights movement in El
Salvador, the troubled Central American country that endured more than a decade
of civil war and paramilitary death squads.

Although the war ended 10 years ago, the man said the government ignores
violence in the military. He has no family in the United States or Canada. He
phoned relatives in El Salvador to say he wasn't coming home. They told him,
"Good luck."

He asked the Quakers for help in applying for refugee status and is looking for
a place to live.

"People live better (here), there isn't as much violence and there are better
working opportunities," he said.

Eusebio Garcia, settlement worker for the Quaker committee, said the men and one
woman who came to see him are staying in private homes.

He said he explained how Canada's refugee system worked and where to apply.

"I told them, 'If you don't have a feeling of fear in your country, don't even
bother to apply.' They didn't go into their stories too much - some said they
had some political problems."


LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2002 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              665 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            July 18, 2002, Thursday

Outcasts of Somalia head for new hope in US

BYLINE: Jonathan Clayton in Kakuma, Kenya

SECTION: Overseas news; 18

LENGTH: 1067 words


HAWIYA ABDI ADEN does not speak a word of English. She has never seen a washing
machine, a flush lavatory or a commercial airliner.

But soon she will complete an epic migration out of Africa that will see her
"lost" people swept across distance and culture from some of the poorest parts
of the world to 21st-century America.

Mrs Abdi Aden, 37, a Somali Bantu who has seven children, has known little but
conflict and hardship throughout her life. Now nearly 12,000 Bantus - long a
persecuted minority in their homeland - are to be resettled in towns and cities
across America. They are looking forward to their new lives, but few have the
least idea what to expect.

"American people are interested in peace, so I like Americans. There I will have
peace, a life and education; education I need because at the moment people like
that have to translate for me," she said nodding towards her interpreter - a
young Somali man in dark sunglasses and a T-shirt emblazoned with the words
Black Yankees.

Before Somalia's civil war the Bantu were farmers, despised by Somalia's
primarily nomadic clans, along the Jubba River. With no clan system to protect
them, these former slaves were robbed, raped, bullied and chased into exile in
neighbouring Kenya when the country descended into anarchy after the 1991
overthrow of the dictator Mohamed Siad Barre. Many bore the brunt of the devas-
tating famine that followed.

"We are a lost people, but now we hope our children will learn something and
become very good," Abdi Muhammad Direy said. The Bantus will be scattered across
the United States and will find out exactly where their new homes will be only a
few days before departure. It is certain that families will not be separated.

Last year a group of Sudanese "lost boys" were settled in places from the chilly
Dakotas to sweltering Virginia. Others went to Cincinnati, Chicago and Texas. US
officials say that the Bantus will go broadly to the same destinations.

Officials of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees agree that Mrs
Abdi Aden and others of her generation will not perhaps adapt to the Western
world.

"It will be tough for this generation, but it is still worth doing. The children
will benefit and the end is now finally in sight for a group of people who have
been discriminated against for years," Boniface Kinyanjui, a protection officer
at Kakuma camp, said.

The first stage of the journey to America is a dusty three-day, 930-mile trip
from Dadaab refugee camp, near the border with Somalia, across Kenya's bandit
ridden northeastern provinces to this sprawling refugee camp close to Kenya's
northern border with Sudan, where there are few rival Somali groups. It is a
huge logistics exercise costing up to Pounds 500,000. They will be taken by road
to Nairobi and then flown to the United States.

Officials from the International Organisation for Migration and the UN refugee
agency, which are organising the joint operation, decided on the transfer for
fear of jealousy from other Somali groups. Some - who cannot understand why the
US is favouring this group - could disrupt the process and cause security
problems.

Each convoy carries between 250 and 300 passengers. The organisation for
migration has provided nurses, wayside watering points and places for overnight
stays, and, in collaboration with the Kenyan authorities, taken security
precautions. About 30 police officers in their own vehicles travel with the
convoy as it moves through some of the most dangerous zones.

The Somali Bantus' presence in Somalia, where they have always been treated as
second-class citizens and deprived of basic rights such as education, can be
traced back to the slave trade of Zanzibar's Arab sultans during the 18th and
19th centuries. Many of the Bantus' ancestors were captured by the sultans'
raiding dhows and taken to the Zanzibar slave market for sale and onward
transport to the Arab world. Vessels wrecked in monsoon winds would pitch their
hapless human cargoes on to the Somali coast.

The UN refugee agency initially approached Mozambique and Tanzania, but both
countries lacked the means to take them and eventually the United States agreed
to take them.

As a group, the Bantu have no desire to return to Somalia and they would be
persecuted, if not killed, if they did. Their homes were long ago seized by
Somali clans.

The system of discrimination was even perpetuated in Dadaab refugee camp, a
settlement of some 120,000 mainly Somali refugees, further emphasising their
special status for Washington.

"We could not go and collect firewood, our children could not even sit at a desk
with other Somali children. They had to sit on the floor. Our women would be
raped if they went into the bush and if our men went to protect them, they would
be killed," Mr Direy said, recalling the daily grind of life in the camps.

Since convoys began late last month, more than 1,000 Bantus have arrived in
Kakuma, where they will live in temporary accommodation until all the
bureaucratic details of the US immigration process are completed. That could
take up to a year, although the first groups to leave could do so by December.

"This is a very compelling caseload, so we would hope a high percentage will be
accepted (for resettlement)," Charles Fillinger, of the US Immigration and
Naturalisation Service, said.

The reception and interview centre is ringed by barbed wire. Immigration
officials feared that non-Bantu Somalis would pose as Bantus and even threaten
some Bantu families to say that they were fellow members in order to get the
prized resettlement papers.

"Resettlement is a very sensitive issue. Everyone in the camp would like to go
to America. It is a dream," one worker from the UN refugee agency said.

The Bantus are also given a two-week crash course in cultural orientation and
basic survival skills that will help them to cope in the West.

"These are people who have never seen an aeroplane, so everything needs to be
explained, from a boarding procedure to how the social security system works
over there," Muhammad Abdikadir, the migration organisation's local operations
manager, said.

Asked about the Somalis' reputation for not integrating into new "host"
countries, Mrs Abdi Aden does not hesitate. "Anywhere we get peace, we will
follow the rules," she said.


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited


                              666 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                        Lincoln Journal Star (Nebraska)

                              May 24, 2002 Friday
                                  City Edition

Nebraska to get fewer refugees

BYLINE: BOB REEVES, Lincoln Journal Star

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 680 words


Nationwide slowdown: Began Sept. 11

Far fewer refugees could arrive in Nebraska this year than last because of a
nationwide slowdown that started Sept. 11.

Since the current federal fiscal year began Oct. 1, only about 11,000 refugees
have come into the United States. And just 62 of those have been resettled in
Nebraska.

Refugee agencies predict that by the time the fiscal year ends Sept. 30, the
number of refugees entering the United States this year will fall far short of
the 70,000 authorized by President Bush Nov. 21.

Nebraska could receive as few as 200 new refugees - compared with 657 last year
- unless there's a dramatic increase in the summer months, said Maria Diaz,
state refugee resettlement coordinator with the state Health and Human Services
System.

Over the past decade, between 600 and 700 new refugees have arrived in Nebraska
each year, she said.

"It's anybody's guess what will happen this year," she said.

Nationally, agencies that resettle refugees are predicting 40,000 this year,
only about two-thirds the number authorized by the president.

A major factor in the slowdown is increased security after Sept. 11, which
forced immigration officials out of foreign countries for safety reasons. About
22,000 refugees were approved to come to America before Sept. 11, but had to be
rescreened. However, refugee advocates say delays in implementing new procedures
and lack of personnel in some regions have slowed the process.

The Rev. Don Duy, director of community services for Lutheran Family Services of
Nebraska's Heartland Refugee Resettlement program, called the problem a
"little-known crisis that Americans who care about our reputation as a just and
compassionate society deserve to know about."

Since Oct. 1, only 41 individuals - 27 in Lincoln and 14 in Omaha - have been
resettled through the Heartland program. Another 19 were resettled in Lincoln as
family reunification cases through Catholic Social Services, which cut its staff
this year. In addition, two refugees were resettled in Omaha by the Jewish
Family Center.

The 46 individuals resettled in Lincoln included three families from Bosnia, two
families from Iraq, two families from Russia, one family from Vietnam and one
person from Sudan.

The flow of refugees from Africa has been severely restricted since Sept. 11,
Duy said.

Duy said he is concerned that some of the most vulnerable people, who escaped
their homelands under threat of violence, are being kept in limbo because of
U.S. concerns about terrorism.

"To invoke new measures in vetoing refugees for U.S. admission is
understandable, although refugees are already among the most screened of any
immigrant group coming to the U.S.," Duy said. "However, it is unjust to prolong
the suffering of refugees whose experience with terror is profound. By extending
their stay in the squalid and often unsafe conditions of refugee camps, where
many have already languished for several years, is to compound their anguish."

He noted that families and churches are ready in Nebraska, and across the
country, to sponsor new refugees and help in their resettlement.

Refugee advocacy organizations nationally say that if this year's goal of 70,000
can't be met, the shortfall should be added to the 75,000 the Department of
State had tentatively planned to announce for next year.

Up until the mid-1990s, the United States admitted 100,000 to 150,000 refugees
each year, and could return to that level, according to a report by Immigration
and Refugee Services of America.

Worldwide, there are an estimated 15million refugees, most of whom can't return
to their own countries because of fear of persecution, torture or possible
death, Duy said. He urged the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, the
State Department and Department of Justice to work together to speed the flow of
refugees.

"The protection of our nation from external threats should not become a pretext"
for turning away people who themselves are seeking asylum from terror, he said.

Reach Bob Reeves at 473-7212 or at breeves@journalstar.com.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2002 Lincoln Journal Star,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              667 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                      April 21, 2002 Sunday, Final Edition

A painful WAIT;
The flow of refugees entering Maine has slowed dramatically since Sept. 11,
putting resettlement programs in jeopardy and delaying family reunions.

BYLINE: C. KALIMAH REDD Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 761 words

DATELINE: Portland


Maine's primary refugee resettlement program says it may go out of business if
the number of refugees entering the United States does not pick up.

Matt Ward, director of the resettlement program run by Catholic Charities Maine,
said last week that since Sept. 11, the flow of refugees coming into Maine has
slowed to a trickle. If the slowdown persists for another month, Ward said, the
program will seriously consider closing down.

"I don't want to be an alarmist, but it's a very serious issue," Ward said.

Other nonprofit programs and agencies across the country that resettle refugees
are facing the same challenges because of their dependence on state and federal
money. Because the funds for these groups are based on the number of refugees
they serve, many have been unable to retain staff.

Ward said Catholic Charities, headquartered in Portland, has already laid off
two of its six full-time staffers and continues to juggle resources to retain
those still on the payroll. The staff typically handles a variety of tasks in
the resettlement process, such as meeting new arrivals at the airport, finding
permanent housing, enrolling their children in schools, helping them find
resources to learn English, and searching for jobs.

Ward said Catholic Charities accepts about 250 refugees each year. By this time
last year, it had received 125. But since Sept. 11, only 10 refugees have
arrived in the state.

Nationally, the drop-off began Oct. 1, when the annual federal authorization for
taking in refugees lapsed. All Immigration and Naturalization Service agents
were removed from offices deemed potentially unsafe. All agencies in Africa were
closed. Because authorities were reviewing immigration and security procedures
after Sept. 11, President Bush didn't sign a reauthorization until Nov. 21.

Even after the gates reopened, tightened security - including more elaborate
fingerprinting procedures - has slowed the processing of refugees, according to
resettlement officials.

Many agree that the worst effect of the slowdown is the delay in reuniting
families.

A native of Sudan who now lives in Portland, Florence Otti, 30, said she and her
family have been awaiting the arrival of several family members, including two
brothers, two sisters and several of their children. Those family members have
been living in a refugee camp in Uganda for two years.

"It's really frustrating," said Otti of her parents, who speak little English.
"My parents say if this keeps up they will have to go back to Africa."

Mary Otto, who is also Sudanese, shares much of the same frustration. Otto said
when she fled her homeland, leaving her entire family with the exception of her
five children, refugee officials told her and others that their families would
soon follow.

"It was supposed to be us in the United States handling this situation from
here, but we are unable to do that," she said. "We are living in stress and
depression; they call every day."

Many have doubts that the 70,000 refugees authorized by Bush to enter the
country by Sept. 30 - the end of the fiscal year - will make it here.

Lavinia Limon, executive director of the Immigration and Refugee Service of
America, located in Baltimore, estimates that about 11,000 have arrived so far.
Others who are still waiting face great hardships because of a lack of food and
proper sanitation and the threat of violence.

"They are in unsafe places," she said. "They are fleeing terror."

Susan Baukhages, director of communications for the Lutheran Immigration and
Refugee Service - the second-largest resettlement program after the Catholic
agencies - noted that refugees have always been subject to more scrutiny than
students, business people or tourists entering the country.

None of the terrorists who attacked the United States last fall were refugees,
she notes.

"It's a little puzzling that this program has been targeted for such scrutiny,
when for so many years it has been such an orderly process," she said.

Adding to the problem is that once the number of refugees increases, agencies
that have survived the slowdown will feel the strain of dealing with those who
were previously handled by other agencies.

Ward said he is very concerned about the growing backlog of refugees waiting to
arrive, and the threat that the network of agencies waiting to help them may be
shrinking.

"Everyone is trying to do their best," he said. "All you can do is sit and hope
for the best."

Staff Writer Kalimah Redd can be contacted at 791-6335 or at:

kredd@pressherald.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Sudan natives Paulino Otti, and his wife, Martina Achiro, have been
waiting more a year to bring several of their family members to Portland from a
refugee camp in Uganda. Otti is holding a United Nations letter, with photos of
his family attached, requesting resettlement.
Staff photo by John Ewing

                 Copyright 2002 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.


                              668 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                        Financial Times (London,England)

                              March 1, 2002 Friday
                                 USA Edition 2

Israeli attacks on refugee camps lead to heavy fighting

BYLINE: By HARVEY MORRIS

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMY, AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST ; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 434 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


There was heavy fighting in the West Bank yesterday after Israeli troops invaded
two refugee camps the army said harboured terrorist bases.

Eleven Palestinians died in the clashes at the Balata camp near Nablus, the
largest in the West Bank, and another camp near Jenin. An Israeli army sergeant
was killed at the Nablus camp. A twelfth Palestinian was reported to have been
shot dead last night during exchanges between Israeli troops and Palestinian
gunmen near the southern edge of Jerusalem.

Last night Kofi Annan, secretary-general of the United Nations, said: "I call on
the IDF to withdraw from these camps immediately, and I implore both sides to
refrain from further actions which may endanger yet more civilian lives," he
said.

A senior Palestinian official condemned the assault as "a predetermined
massacre" and a leftwing Israeli parliamentarian drew an analogy with the 1982
killings at the Sabra and Shatila camps in Lebanon over which Ariel Sharon, now
prime minister, was subsequently censured.

The violence cast a shadow over the latest Saudi peace initiative, which
continues to gain international support in the approach to the Arab summit in
Beirut later this month.

The attacks began with a missile strike by a helicopter gunship on Balata.
Israeli troops occupied buildings in the narrow streets of the camps and ordered
civilians to leave Balata camp and head for Nablus. Balata has 20,000 refugees.
It was home to the suicide bomber who blew herself up at an Israeli military
roadblock on Wednesday night.

The army said the two camps were "bases of terror infrastructure that have been
responsible for the murder of dozens of Israelis".

Marwan Barghouti, leader of Fatah in the West Bank, threatened retaliation if
Israeli troops did not withdraw.

Jibril Rajoub, Yassir Arafat's security chief in the West Bank, said the
assaults on the camps were "a predetermined massacre by the occupation forces
aimed at killing any effort at calm".

Yossi Sarid, the leftwing Israeli opposition leader, said of Mr Sharon: "He who
was burned badly in Sabra and Shatila should be wary of entering Balata and
Jenin."

* Ari Fleischer, White House spokesman, said last night he regretted suggesting
that former US president Bill Clinton's push for a Middle East peace deal was to
blame for the last 17 months of violence in the region.

Earlier, Mr Fleischer suggested that Mr Clinton's "shoot the moon" effort to
broker an Israeli-Palestinian peace deal before leaving office was responsible
for the strife in which nearly 1,200 people have died since September 2000.
www.ft.com/mideastcrisis

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The Financial Times Limited


                              669 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 7, 2002 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Foreign Born in U.S. at Record High

BYLINE:   By JANNY SCOTT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 712 words


The number of foreign-born residents and children of immigrants in the United
States has reached the highest level in history, according to a Census Bureau
report released yesterday. It found that the number had leapt to 56 million from
34 million in the last three decades.

Mexico accounted for more than a quarter of all the foreign-born residents, the
bureau's analysis of data from its March 2000 Current Population Survey showed.
That share is the largest any country has held since the 1890 census, when about
30 percent of the country's foreign-born population was from Germany.

The study found that, on average, foreign-born residents were much more likely
than native Americans to live in or around a handful of big cities. They were
almost equally likely to be in the labor force. But foreign-born residents
earned less and were less likely to have health insurance than native Americans.

While the number of foreign-born residents and their children is higher than
ever, their percentage in the population is not. In the 1910 census, that group
made up 35 percent of the population, compared with 20 percent in 2000, a
spokesman for the Census Bureau said.

The report brings together data on the age, sex and birthplaces of the foreign
born, their education levels, jobs and earnings. In doing so, it makes clear the
near impossibility of generalizing about immigrants and the immigrant
experience.

For example, while only 33.8 percent of residents over age 25 and born in Mexico
had completed high school, 95 percent of those born in Africa had. While the
median household income for those born in Latin America was $29,338, it was
$51,363 for those from Asia, well above that of native Americans.

The proportion of married couples with children under 18 ranged from 35 percent
for residents born in Europe to 73.4 percent for those from Latin America. The
proportion of naturalized citizens varied widely, from 52 percent of those born
in Europe to 21.1 percent of those born in Central America.

"The big question is how the second generation is going to do," said Nancy
Foner, a professor of anthropology at the State University of New York at
Purchase and the author of "From Ellis Island to JFK: New York's Two Great Waves
of Immigration" (Yale, 2000). "And how the presence of large proportions of
Asians, Latinos and black immigrants are changing Americans' notions of race."

The Census Bureau study found that the foreign-born population was heavily
concentrated in California, New York, Florida, Texas, New Jersey and Illinois;
those six states accounted for 70.4 percent of the total. Nearly 55 percent
lived in the nine metropolitan areas with populations of five million or more.

California led the nation with the highest percentage of foreign-born residents
with 25.9 percent, followed by New York State with 19.6. The metropolitan areas
with the largest percentage of foreign-born populations were Los Angeles were
29.6 percent and New York with 22.8.

In New York City, said John H. Mollenkopf, a demographer at the City University
of New York, 43 percent of the residents are foreign born and another 9.2
percent are the children of two foreign-born parents. In 1900, Professor
Mollenkopf said, only 23 percent of New Yorkers had native-born parents.

The Census Bureau's report put at 55.9 million the number of people of so-called
foreign stock, which includes 28.4 million foreign born, 14.8 million native
born with two foreign-born parents, and 12.7 million of mixed parentage. That
group is likely to grow, in part because the proportion of births to
foreign-born women rose to 20.2 percent in 1999 from 6 percent of all births in
1970, the report said.

While the median ages of the foreign-born and native populations barely
differed, foreign-born residents fell disproportionately between the ages of 25
and 54. The percentage of foreign-born residents in that age group was 58.7,
compared with 41.7 percent of native Americans.

"In some ways, it has complemented the baby boom," Dianne Schmidley, a Census
Bureau statistician and author of the report, said of the rise of the foreign
born. "Every discussion you hear about the baby boom and the effect of the baby
boom -- all that has been made greater by the addition of those young adults."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 12, 2002



CORRECTION: A headline on Thursday about 2000 census figures that show a record
number of foreign-born residents in the United States misstated the number. It
is 28.4 million; 56 million is the number of people who are foreign-born or who
are native-born to at least one foreign-born parent.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "HEAD COUNT: More Americans Born Abroad"In 2000, 56 million
Americans, or 20 percent of the population, had either been born in a foreign
country or had at least one parent who was, according to Census Bureau
estimates. The question on the birthplace of parents was not asked in 1940,
1950, 1980 or 1990. Graphs compare number born, measured in millions, in this
country to at least one foreign-born parent and born in a foreign country and
number as a percentage of the population from 1890-2000.(Source: Census Bureau,
Current Population Survey 2000 ; previous decennial censuses)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              670 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                    February 6, 2002 Wednesday EARLY EDITION

Keep Canada's standards for refugees, advocate urges: Don't lower 'fair' system
to harmonize with U.S., UN commissioner says

BYLINE: Norma Greenaway

SOURCE: The Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A6

LENGTH: 556 words


The world's leading advocate for refugees has warned Canada against lowering its
"fair" standard for handling asylum seekers to the U.S. level if pushed to
harmonize policies with its southern neighbour.

Ruud Lubbers, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, said yesterday
the Chretien government should be pressing the U.S. government to "duplicate"
elements of its refugee determination policy rather than the reverse. "I would
say civilization should always harmonize upwards, never downwards," Mr. Lubbers
said during a visit to Ottawa.

In any harmonization talks between Canada and the United States, "you have to
try to go for the better standard than the lower standard."

Mr. Lubbers said the Canadian system is better because it offers refugees a last
resort independent review of their claim in the courts. The U.S. system relies
solely on the Immigration and Naturalization Service to decide refugee claims.
There is no independent appeal route.

"I think that really the system is fair," he said of Canada's rules.

Mr. Lubbers said one of his reasons for visiting Ottawa was to encourage the
Chretien government to continue to resist post-Sept. 11 pressures to introduce a
more restrictive refugee determination system.

Though an ailing Prime Minister Jean Chretien cancelled his meeting with Mr.
Lubbers, the high commissioner's schedule included sessions with Deputy Prime
Minister John Manley, Defence Minister Art Eggleton, Immigration Minister Denis
Coderre, Foreign Affairs Minister Bill Graham, and Susan Whelan, minister of
international co-operation.

He used the meeting to stress the need for G8 leaders to use their meeting in
Kananaskis, Alta., in June to focus on ways of curbing the burgeoning refugee
problem, especially in Africa.

Africa is a top agenda item for the G8 rendezvous.

The former prime minister of the Netherlands, Mr. Lubbers said the terrorist
attacks on the United States were horrible but governments must be careful not
to wrongly punish refugees for the carnage.

"Part of my mission is to explain that although not all refugees are saints, one
should not confuse refugees with related to crime. They are victims. And we
should not make them victims twice."

Mr. Lubbers stressed that none of the hijackers blamed for the attacks were
refugees or people claiming to be refugees.

"We know how the people who did it entered the country. They all entered
legally," he said. "It's absolutely unfair and a bit silly to suggest being more
unaccepting of refugees would diminish your risks (of attack)."

Mr. Lubbers urged Canada to use negotiations with the U.S. over an agreement to
prevent asylum shopping by refugee claimants to improve the U.S. policy.

Those talks, which have apparently bogged down, are aimed at sealing an
agreement that would force people to claim asylum in the first country they
reach after fleeing their homeland, whether it is Canada or the U.S.

This means the thousands of people who travel via the U.S. to make their claim
in Canada, about 22,000 in the last two years, would be turned back to make
their claim in the U.S.

Substantially fewer people travel through Canada to make their refugee claim in
the U.S. The U.S. has balked at the prospect of having to handle thousands more
claimants turned back by Canada.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News

               Copyright 2002 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              671 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 27, 2001 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Working To Better Aid African Immigrants

BYLINE: Phuong Ly, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: MONTGOMERY EXTRA; Pg. T03

LENGTH: 641 words


Beatrice Narukundo hoped that she was leaving war-torn Congo and all its
violence behind when she immigrated to the United States two years ago.

But two months after arriving, a group of teenagers rushed into her house in
Hyattsville, teasing and beating her children, she said. The police came, but
she spoke only French and they spoke English.

She said she was charged with assault and spent the night in the Prince George's
County jail.

Narukundo, speaking in French, recounted the incident through a translator at a
program on African refugees. The half-day workshop, held recently at the Charles
W. Gilchrist Center for Cultural Diversity in Wheaton, was designed to help the
nearly 100 participants who work with newcomers to better understand the
struggles that immigrants face.

"You have to take more time to deal with an African immigrant and realize that
they do not use the social skills that an American has," said Wanjiru Kamau,
director of the African Immigrants and Refugees Foundation in Silver Spring, a
nonprofit social services group that organized the workshop. "My emphasis in
training is to try to understand the cultural differences of the person."

The number of African immigrants has been increasing dramatically in the
Washington area as refugees flee the civil wars of their homelands. Before, most
refugees had come from Southeast Asia or Latin America, according to the
Maryland Office for New Americans.

Nearly 16.2 percent, or about 39,000, of the 240,000 immigrants who came to
Washington from 1990 to 1998 hailed from African countries, according to a study
by the Washington-based Brookings Institution.

The immigrants come from a variety of countries, including Ethiopia, Nigeria,
Sierra Leone and Somalia, and are settling primarily in the District and Prince
George's and Montgomery counties.

The Washington region attracts the largest proportion of Africans of any major
metropolitan area, according to the Brookings report.

Many social services providers said at the workshop that they were unprepared to
handle the new arrivals, particularly because of language difficulties.

Patricia Chiancone, who works with English for Speakers of Other Languages
students at Northwestern High School in Prince George's, said teachers do not
have simple statistics on the number of African students.

She said that students from Africa are classified in the computer system as
African American. "They get lumped together," she said.

Francis Govan, a community outreach specialist for Montgomery County, said that
tensions may arise between Africans and African Americans because of
misunderstandings.

African Americans may have misconceptions about the new immigrants because of
stereotypes about Africa.

"These communities have not really communicated with each other," Govan said.

Other problems were identified: Many immigrants, including children, suffer from
post-traumatic stress disorder because of the violence they have witnessed.
Women do not know that they can and should report domestic violence, even if
they do not speak English. Parents are not familiar with the school system.

Participants said many of the concerns could be addressed by pooling together
resources and networking.

Others can be solved by educating people about cultural differences.

Kamau said that, for example, some teachers have misunderstood African students
because the students do not look them in the eye. The teachers think that the
students are being rude, when actually they are being polite, according to their
culture.

Kamau said she hopes to hold more workshops to help both social workers and
immigrants.

"Once you understand this person, you'll be able to to help them," Kamau said of
social workers.

And, she added, "Africans need the training to understand the American culture
so they can survive."

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              672 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                  Toronto Star

                    December 4, 2001 Tuesday Ontario Edition

Heaven can't wait

BYLINE: Ross Lockhart, Special to the Star ; tim krochak for the toronto star

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 04

LENGTH: 1409 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Are Gen-Xers turning to spirituality in the aftermath of Sept. 11?

"America is under aerial attack. New York and Washington have been hit. Please
remain in your seats as we dump our fuel reserves and return to Amsterdam."

The KLM pilot's words woke me with a start, leaving behind my pleasant dreams of
an upcoming Tim Hortons coffee and chocolate sour cream Timbits once we were
back in Canada.

After a transformative visit to church refugee camps in Africa, I thought I had
stepped off the emotional roller coaster and was heading home to safety and
stability. But when we touched down in Amsterdam, I realized that in the course
of that short flight the world, as well as the way I interpreted it, had changed
forever.

As I exited the plane, walking past the visibly shaken flight crew and joining
the crowd around a television set in our waiting area, I realized I was standing
at my own generation's epoch in history. Our grandparents had experienced World
War II, our parents had lived through the Kennedy assassination, and now we,
individuals in our late 20s to mid-30s, had been thrust into a frightening new
world.

Talking to friends since the September attacks, I've discovered Gen-Xers such as
myself are trying to assess those events. As well, we're pondering the new
reality of living in a Western society that's more on edge, less confident with
its own sense of safety and security.

As a generation, we're being forced to rethink our world view and for some, this
also includes our faith. In the media, one sees, hears or reads reports now that
are liberally sprinkled with the language of good versus evil.

Politicians who once cautioned that religion is a private matter now call on
citizens to keep victims and their families in prayer, and churches, synagogues
and mosques are more crowded with younger people in search of hope and meaning.
One Gen-Xer came to see me in the church office and mentioned how after Sept. 11
she just had to go to church to pray even though she had not been in many years.

Is this a time of spiritual renewal or just a momentary blip in the usual
spiritual apathy?

If the pre-Sept.11 pattern re-emerges (and it most likely will), the number of
church-goers in the 18 to 35 age group will keep dwindling across the country.
Mainline Canadian congregations are in a crisis, with many denominations
crippled by residential school lawsuits, budget cuts and declining memberships.
In fact, some churches you stroll into on a Sunday morning feel more like "Club
Dead" than an exciting community of faith.

And you don't have to dig deep to discover Gen-Xers who complain about boring
services, outdated language and concepts, and music that is as exciting as a
trip to the proctologist.

So where have all the Xers gone? Are we really a generation of little faith? Or
is it more that, in the words of Bono and the boys from U2, we "still haven't
found what we're looking for?"

Gen-Xers are a searching generation, trying to balance the idea of established
religion with the cruelty and fanaticism that exist in the world, often
exercised in the name of religion. So many people eagerly speak for God that
it's not difficult to become cynical and jaded.

It takes a lot to shock or even impress my generation. Having been duped in the
past, many Gen-Xers are suspicious of anything, like religion, that can't be
proven. As well, many of our generation have had either a bad childhood
experience in church or an equally meaningless one as a young adult.

As a result, some of us may regard Christianity (or any organized religion) with
skepticism. Is there really a God? Is it all a hoax? Is God really just people's
overactive imagination of a disembodied voice floating around a room? Even if we
feel that there might actually be a God, what happens if we go on a couple of
rides in life and then come back? Is God still there and does God (He, She or
It) look the same?

In light of the recent terror attacks, I've noticed an increased interest among
some of my friends in how religion and politics are interwoven.

I did an informal poll among a few friends in a bar one evening on their own
impressions of church and whether anything had changed in that regard.

Jeff, a 28-year-old architect, told me he'd never been in a church except when
someone in his family had died.

"My parents were hippies, just like Dharma's folks on Dharma And Greg," he says.
"There were some family and friends who went to the church down the street but
they were thought of ... hmm ... let's just say, in the words of the Dixie
Chicks 'Square people in a world that's round.'

"I think it's all a bunch of superstitious nonsense. If I can't see it, I can't
prove it. And just look at where religion goes ... those hijacker pilots thought
they were working for God or something."

I studied Jeff carefully and realized that, like so many raised outside a faith
group, the language of God and symbols of the church are foreign, his exposure
being limited to the odd TV evangelist or street preacher.

Sara is a student in her mid-20s who is working her way through an English
degree. "My folks raised me Roman Catholic," she says, "forcing me to go to
church, catechism and all that stuff. It was really boring and as soon as I was
old enough, I was outta there.

"I've got better things to do with my time than spend it in an old church full
of creepy priests. The worst thing now is watching friends of mine from the old
neighbourhood still go back every now and then only to feel guilty for not
regularly attending.

"That Catholic guilt seems to go on and on."

As I watched Sara, it became clear the church had fundamentally failed her in
issues of identity, meaning, sexuality, relationships and spiritual belief. The
language of God, symbols of worship, and other "churchy" things just bring back
bad memories and create negative feelings.

And finally, there's Craig, a soft-spoken 24-year-old science student who was
raised in the United Church. "My folks still go," he says, "and I show up to
please them on Christmas Eve and Easter if I'm around. I don't know ... I guess
I'll get married there someday.

"As long as people don't get crazy with religion, I guess it brings some people
comfort."

I sat there among my friends, reflecting on how they were supportive of me going
into ministry. Craig had been the most understanding and his comments didn't
surprise me.

Brought up in a liberal Protestant church, Craig has a great deal of respect for
"ordained ministers" who help people and a fondness for the church, but doesn't
see how the institution has anything to do with his life right now. The language
of God and symbols of the church are just friendly reminders of childhood and a
simpler time, perhaps best described as an era of innocence.

"How 'bout you Bible boy?" Sara asked playfully, directing her question to me.
"Why are you still going to hang out with our grandmothers on a Sunday? You've
never been the preachy type and you've even got Buddhist and Jewish friends and
God knows what else?"

Although her question caught me off-guard, I responded that I had found a home
in the church, a real place of sanctuary.

"It's like on those long car rides on the Prairies when we were kids," I said.
"In the middle of nowhere, you told your parents that if your bladder were a
battleship it would be on Red Alert!

"In the split second before soiling yourself, you saw rising out of the distance
a sign of salvation announcing a service station ahead with a big bathroom.

"Jesus is like a signpost for me, pointing me toward God. In the God that raised
Jesus from the dead, I discovered a God who could love more than the world could
hate. I guess I figured this was a God worth checking out."

After chatting for a few more minutes, we grabbed our coats and left. Afterward,
I realized that our group seemed to represent different types of Gen-Xers. They
range from no contact with faith to extremely negative or very positive. Despite
that, we all respect each other's differences.

Seems to me, though, in this post-Sept. 11 world, religion cannot be ignored and
has once again been thrust to the forefront of media, politics and popular
culture.

As I paid the bill and walked out of the crowded Irish pub, I prayed that above
the din of so many people clamouring to speak for God these days, we might hear
and respond to God's still, quiet voice issuing the same divine invitation
offered to every generation.


LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: tim krochak for the toronto star RELIGIOUS REVIVAL?:
Minister-in-training Ross Lockhart, 24, wonders if Sept. 11 sparked a spiritual
renewal among his generation or just a temporary interest.

                  Copyright 2001 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              673 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                  Toronto Star

                    December 4, 2001 Tuesday Ontario Edition

Heaven can't wait

BYLINE: Ross Lockhart, Special to the Star ; tim krochak for the toronto star

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. D01

LENGTH: 1409 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Are Gen-Xers turning to spirituality in the aftermath of Sept. 11?

"America is under aerial attack. New York and Washington have been hit. Please
remain in your seats as we dump our fuel reserves and return to Amsterdam."

The KLM pilot's words woke me with a start, leaving behind my pleasant dreams of
an upcoming Tim Hortons coffee and chocolate sour cream Timbits once we were
back in Canada.

After a transformative visit to church refugee camps in Africa, I thought I had
stepped off the emotional roller coaster and was heading home to safety and
stability. But when we touched down in Amsterdam, I realized that in the course
of that short flight the world, as well as the way I interpreted it, had changed
forever.

As I exited the plane, walking past the visibly shaken flight crew and joining
the crowd around a television set in our waiting area, I realized I was standing
at my own generation's epoch in history. Our grandparents had experienced World
War II, our parents had lived through the Kennedy assassination, and now we,
individuals in our late 20s to mid-30s, had been thrust into a frightening new
world.

Talking to friends since the September attacks, I've discovered Gen-Xers such as
myself are trying to assess those events. As well, we're pondering the new
reality of living in a Western society that's more on edge, less confident with
its own sense of safety and security.

As a generation, we're being forced to rethink our world view and for some, this
also includes our faith. In the media, one sees, hears or reads reports now that
are liberally sprinkled with the language of good versus evil.

Politicians who once cautioned that religion is a private matter now call on
citizens to keep victims and their families in prayer, and churches, synagogues
and mosques are more crowded with younger people in search of hope and meaning.
One Gen-Xer came to see me in the church office and mentioned how after Sept. 11
she just had to go to church to pray even though she had not been in many years.

Is this a time of spiritual renewal or just a momentary blip in the usual
spiritual apathy?

If the pre-Sept.11 pattern re-emerges (and it most likely will), the number of
church-goers in the 18 to 35 age group will keep dwindling across the country.
Mainline Canadian congregations are in a crisis, with many denominations
crippled by residential school lawsuits, budget cuts and declining memberships.
In fact, some churches you stroll into on a Sunday morning feel more like "Club
Dead" than an exciting community of faith.

And you don't have to dig deep to discover Gen-Xers who complain about boring
services, outdated language and concepts, and music that is as exciting as a
trip to the proctologist.

So where have all the Xers gone? Are we really a generation of little faith? Or
is it more that, in the words of Bono and the boys from U2, we "still haven't
found what we're looking for?"

Gen-Xers are a searching generation, trying to balance the idea of established
religion with the cruelty and fanaticism that exist in the world, often
exercised in the name of religion. So many people eagerly speak for God that
it's not difficult to become cynical and jaded.

It takes a lot to shock or even impress my generation. Having been duped in the
past, many Gen-Xers are suspicious of anything, like religion, that can't be
proven. As well, many of our generation have had either a bad childhood
experience in church or an equally meaningless one as a young adult.

As a result, some of us may regard Christianity (or any organized religion) with
skepticism. Is there really a God? Is it all a hoax? Is God really just people's
overactive imagination of a disembodied voice floating around a room? Even if we
feel that there might actually be a God, what happens if we go on a couple of
rides in life and then come back? Is God still there and does God (He, She or
It) look the same?

In light of the recent terror attacks, I've noticed an increased interest among
some of my friends in how religion and politics are interwoven.

I did an informal poll among a few friends in a bar one evening on their own
impressions of church and whether anything had changed in that regard.

Jeff, a 28-year-old architect, told me he'd never been in a church except when
someone in his family had died.

"My parents were hippies, just like Dharma's folks on Dharma And Greg," he says.
"There were some family and friends who went to the church down the street but
they were thought of ... hmm ... let's just say, in the words of the Dixie
Chicks 'Square people in a world that's round.'

"I think it's all a bunch of superstitious nonsense. If I can't see it, I can't
prove it. And just look at where religion goes ... those hijacker pilots thought
they were working for God or something."

I studied Jeff carefully and realized that, like so many raised outside a faith
group, the language of God and symbols of the church are foreign, his exposure
being limited to the odd TV evangelist or street preacher.

Sara is a student in her mid-20s who is working her way through an English
degree. "My folks raised me Roman Catholic," she says, "forcing me to go to
church, catechism and all that stuff. It was really boring and as soon as I was
old enough, I was outta there.

"I've got better things to do with my time than spend it in an old church full
of creepy priests. The worst thing now is watching friends of mine from the old
neighbourhood still go back every now and then only to feel guilty for not
regularly attending.

"That Catholic guilt seems to go on and on."

As I watched Sara, it became clear the church had fundamentally failed her in
issues of identity, meaning, sexuality, relationships and spiritual belief. The
language of God, symbols of worship, and other "churchy" things just bring back
bad memories and create negative feelings.

And finally, there's Craig, a soft-spoken 24-year-old science student who was
raised in the United Church. "My folks still go," he says, "and I show up to
please them on Christmas Eve and Easter if I'm around. I don't know ... I guess
I'll get married there someday.

"As long as people don't get crazy with religion, I guess it brings some people
comfort."

I sat there among my friends, reflecting on how they were supportive of me going
into ministry. Craig had been the most understanding and his comments didn't
surprise me.

Brought up in a liberal Protestant church, Craig has a great deal of respect for
"ordained ministers" who help people and a fondness for the church, but doesn't
see how the institution has anything to do with his life right now. The language
of God and symbols of the church are just friendly reminders of childhood and a
simpler time, perhaps best described as an era of innocence.

"How 'bout you Bible boy?" Sara asked playfully, directing her question to me.
"Why are you still going to hang out with our grandmothers on a Sunday? You've
never been the preachy type and you've even got Buddhist and Jewish friends and
God knows what else?"

Although her question caught me off-guard, I responded that I had found a home
in the church, a real place of sanctuary.

"It's like on those long car rides on the Prairies when we were kids," I said.
"In the middle of nowhere, you told your parents that if your bladder were a
battleship it would be on Red Alert!

"In the split second before soiling yourself, you saw rising out of the distance
a sign of salvation announcing a service station ahead with a big bathroom.

"Jesus is like a signpost for me, pointing me toward God. In the God that raised
Jesus from the dead, I discovered a God who could love more than the world could
hate. I guess I figured this was a God worth checking out."

After chatting for a few more minutes, we grabbed our coats and left. Afterward,
I realized that our group seemed to represent different types of Gen-Xers. They
range from no contact with faith to extremely negative or very positive. Despite
that, we all respect each other's differences.

Seems to me, though, in this post-Sept. 11 world, religion cannot be ignored and
has once again been thrust to the forefront of media, politics and popular
culture.

As I paid the bill and walked out of the crowded Irish pub, I prayed that above
the din of so many people clamouring to speak for God these days, we might hear
and respond to God's still, quiet voice issuing the same divine invitation
offered to every generation.


LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: tim krochak for the toronto star RELIGIOUS REVIVAL?:
Minister-in-training Ross Lockhart, 24, wonders if Sept. 11 sparked a spiritual
renewal among his generation or just a temporary interest.

                  Copyright 2001 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              674 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                        Lincoln Journal Star (Nebraska)

                            December 3, 2001 Monday
                                  City Edition

Sudan refugees adjust to U.S. life

BYLINE: VERONICA DAEHN, Lincoln Journal Star

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 397 words


When Gai Laam came to the United States from Sudan in 1998, he didn't know
anything about the American way of life.

He didn't know about kitchen stoves, speed limits or that it's not OK in America
for men to beat their wives.

Now, Laam's a translator for Lincoln Public Schools. He's one of only two
translators in Lincoln who speak Arabic, and he's the only one who speaks the
language of the Nuer tribe, one of the two main tribes of Sudanese in Lincoln.
Nobody can translate for the Dinka tribe.

Laam sees daily the problems the Sudanese refugees face.

"They don't know how life is in America," he said. "We try to explain (it) to
them, but it's tough."

Laam, 24, was at the Culture Center, 333 N. 14th St., Sunday afternoon for a
welcome-to-Lincoln party for Sudanese refugees. It was a time for the 500 to
1,000 Sudanese natives in Lincoln to come together and find support from the
community in the form of donated clothing, toys, dishes, food and friendship.

"The idea was to acknowledge their difficulties and say we're worried and
concerned and want to help," said Mary Willis, assistant professor of
anthropology at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln.

Many natives of Sudan, the largest country in Africa, have been forced to leave
their homeland because of the 20-year civil war -- the longest running civil war
in the world -- that has ravaged their country and killed their families.

Most didn't have the option of staying, Willis said.

"These people have been living with terrorism for years," she said. "They can't
go back home. Their only choice is to come to the U.S."

And now that they're here, it's a difficult transition.

"They have to relearn life all over," she said. "They have to learn our values
and our legal system. It's very difficult for them."

Laam agreed.

It's frustrating for him to have to tell Sudanese parents that their children
are in trouble at school. Many Sudanese refugees don't yet understand the
American culture or the reasoning behind U.S. laws.

And Laam is just the literal translator, not an interpreter of meaning. He
doesn't yet have the experience to fully understand the meaning himself, he
said.

Sunday's celebration was one step toward helping the refugees start over.

"It's a community that has a lot of need," Willis said. "We hope this will be a
start."

Reach Veronica Daehn at 473-7120 or vdaehn@journalstar.com

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2001 Lincoln Journal Star,
                              All Rights Reserved


                              675 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 18, 2001 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Don't Stop Refugee Resettlement

BYLINE: Tom Gerety

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B07

LENGTH: 611 words


Foreigners come across our borders every day, by boat and plane, in cars and on
foot. They come as students, workers, tourists, family and friends. We know that
many of them will stay, with or without visas.

Every so often one will be here to do harm to the United States. Among the
hundreds of thousands who come each year, relatively few -- fewer than 70,000
last year -- are refugees, people who have been certified by officers of our
government as fleeing "persecution" on the basis of race, religion or ideas.

Late last month it was revealed that on Sept. 11, for the first time since the
Cold War, the United States had stopped all refugee travel to the United States.
Right now, somewhere in the White House, an assistant to President Bush has a
draft letter reauthorizing the admission of refugees. But Bush will not sign the
letter until a security clearance is issued by the Justice Department for all
those waiting to be admitted. That could take days or months, even years,
depending on our "insecurity," our fear, of the small group of desperate people
officially certified to have "a well-founded fear of persecution" under the
United Nations Convention of 1951.

Who are these people? What sort of persecution are they fleeing? Many or most of
them are women -- from Afghanistan and Africa, with small children in tow. They
have spent months and years in refugee camps in Pakistan or Africa, Europe or
Asia. A few are religious refugees from various places around the globe: Jews
from Ukraine, Christians and Baha'is from Iran. Many are dissidents whose ideas
have seemed threatening to dictators.

All of them have been interviewed extensively before receiving approval from the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. Any hint of a terrorist inclination
would have disqualified them long ago. (Lavinia Limon, the head of Immigrant and
Refugee Services of America, notes that terrorists have many more efficient ways
to get to America than by long stays in refugee camps, testifying over and again
to instances of religious or sexual persecution.)

Sept. 11 changed many things; all of us accept that. But it should not change
everything, as the president said and as so many others have said. Among the
things that should not change are America's ideals. And among the ideals that we
count as distinctively, even essentially, American is that represented by the
Statue of Liberty out in New York Harbor, looking back on the site of our great
national catastrophe: the ideal of a haven for the oppressed, the persecuted,
those seeking refuge in America from tyranny at home.

To hold up the refugees for a few days was understandable and even laudable. Our
airports and our towns were not in a position to take in desperately poor people
in the midst of a great crisis. But now, as the crisis evolves toward a new
sense of vigilance that will hold for many years, we need to return to our most
fundamental and symbolic commitments in international law. Shelter for refugees
is something America must stand for, in days of crisis and days of calm, in
peace as in war.

Our churches and charities have already identified places of resettlement for
the refugees whose plans were made and approved before Sept. 11. Such
organizations as the United States Catholic Conference, Lutheran Immigration and
Refugee Services and the International Rescue Committee have social workers,
schools, jobs and housing arranged.

It is time for the president to issue his letter of authorization and allow
these new Americans to come to the land of the free.

The writer is president of Amherst College and a member of the board of the
International Rescue Committee.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: COLUMN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2001 The Washington Post


                              676 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                     November 16, 2001 Friday, Home Edition

Afghan refugees' reintegration hard;
Ex-U.N. official: World must help

BYLINE: MONI BASU

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: News; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 372 words


Rebuilding Afghanistan will be a long, arduous process that will require the
input of many nations, Sadako Ogata, the former United Nations High Commissioner
for Refugees, said Thursday in Atlanta.

"Afghanistan has been abandoned for quite some time. This frustrated me
enormously," said Ogata, who was participating in a session on conflict
resolution at the Carter Center. "The international community did not care about
Afghanistan for a long time."

Ogata headed the U.N. refugee agency from 1991 until the end of last year. A
scholar in residence with the Ford Foundation since then, she is writing a book
on her experiences in refugee crises in the Balkans, Iraq and central Africa.
The Japanese native has also been tapped as her country's special representative
to Afghanistan.

Ogata said the refugee reintegration process will be that much more difficult in
Afghanistan because of the destruction of agriculture and infrastructure and the
immense loss of life caused by more than two decades of war.

Afghanistan's 3.5 million refugees living in Pakistan and Iran --- the world's
largest refugee population --- will be eager to return to their country once
fighting ceases and the Taliban is stifled, Ogata said. As many as 1,300
returned from Iran on Thursday.

"The UNHCR's goal is always repatriation [of refugees]," Ogata said. "I hope
that as soon as the internal situation is under control that the UNHCR's main
work will focus on refugees going home."

Even though the U.S.-backed Northern Alliance troops made big military gains in
the last week, Ogata said it was still too early to assess the impact on the
humanitarian crisis.

On Thursday, the UNHCR reported that Kabul was returning to normal and that many
local employees had returned to work in the agency's reopened office there.

Ogata said she thinks millions of Afghans are displaced within their homeland
because the neighboring nations of Iran and Pakistan both sealed their borders
following the Sept. 11 attacks. That's why only 135,000 Afghans have been able
to cross into Pakistan, a number that Ogata thinks is very low given the poor
conditions in Afghanistan.

ON THE WEB: UNHCR: www.unhcr.ch/cgi-bin/texis/vtx/home

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo:
Former U.N. official Sadako Ogata sees a tall task in rebuilding Afghanistan.

                    Copyright 2001 The Atlanta Constitution


                              677 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                    November 8, 2001 Thursday, Home Edition

Embrace refugees in our land

BYLINE: CLARE RICHIE

SOURCE: For the Journal-Constitution

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. 22A; INTERNATIONAL ATLANTA

LENGTH: 659 words


Prior to Sept. 11, refugees living in Atlanta were the teachers, nurses,
cashiers, janitors and housekeepers who gave meaning to the phrase "American
melting pot."

Now, suddenly, refugees are shunned and labeled "other." Yet, at no other time
in recent memory have American citizens had more in common with refugees than
now. Both know terror.

Take Ali Abdulilah Hamzah, an electrician and shopowner who fled Iraq in 1999
after spending nearly 10 years in prison. Arrested and sentenced to 25 years for
being anti-government, Hamzah spent his youth in a tiny, one-room cell with 56
other inmates.

Or Abdul Rahman Mohamad Molla, an engineer who five years ago fled his home in
Kabul, Afghanistan, when he learned that the Taliban was questioning his
neighbors and seeking his arrest. Having attended university in Russia, Molla
was accused of being a Communist by the anti-Communist Taliban regime. Together
with his wife and three children, Molla walked for four days to Mazar-e-Sharif
near the Russian border. He eventually made his way to Moscow where he was
forced to bribe Moscow police for his family's survival.

Often the primary targets of persecution in their native countries, refugees
find themselves in danger of the same sort of physical, mental and
discriminatory abuse in their new American homes. While only a few Americans ---
motivated by fear, prejudice and misinformation --- have perpetrated violence
upon refugees or immigrants, such acts, whether national or personal, awaken
buried memories of sadness and despair. As war rages in Afghanistan, refugees
from the Middle East and Sub-Saharan Africa are particularly fearful.

A refugee is someone who has fled his or her homeland because of a "well-founded
fear" of persecution for reasons of race, religion, nationality, social group or
political opinion. In light of recent events, many people in the United States
fear that foreigners, many of whom are refugees or asylum seekers, are potential
threats to American society and that their entrance into the United States and
other Western nations should be curbed. However, most are not aware that
refugees go through a very lengthy screening process and background check that
can take five years.

Although there are more than 14.5 million refugees and asylum seekers and nearly
25 million internally displaced persons worldwide, the U.S. accepts 70,000
annually. These refugees come from, among other countries, Somalia, Sudan, Iran,
Iraq, Vietnam, Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union.

Refugees are farmers, shopkeepers, students, scientists, journalists,
professionals, politicians, doctors, teachers, mothers, children and the
elderly. They are taxpayers, neighbors and fellow countrymen. Albert Einstein,
Henry Kissinger, Sigmund Freud and Madeleine Albright were refugees, to name but
a few.

Never has there been a more important time for us as American citizens to show
our solidarity with these victims of organized and random forms of terrorism. If
you are an employer, consider hiring a refugee by contacting a local refugee
support office. If you are a teacher, consider implementing culturally sensitive
lessons into your curriculum.

Make a donation that will assist refugees who are financially vulnerable in
these unstable economic times. A coalition of nonprofits has organized to help
refugees and immigrants and includes the following groups: African Community and
Refugee Center, Amnesty International USA, the Christian Council of Metropolitan
Atlanta, Clarkston Community Center, DeKalb Board of Health, International
Rescue Committee, Jewish Family and Career Services, Newcomers Network, Lutheran
Ministries of Georgia and Unitarian Universalist Congregation of Atlanta.

At the very least, practice the religious and cultural tolerance that has always
been the hallmark of our American democracy. Clare Richie is regional director
of International Rescue Committee in Atlanta.

LOAD-DATE: April 02, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Column

                    Copyright 2001 The Atlanta Constitution


                              678 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                     November 6, 2001 Tuesday, Home Edition

Sudanese refugees fear losing their jobs

BYLINE: TASGOLA KARLA BRUNER

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: Metro News; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 681 words


Gabriel Garang's blood was too anemic to donate to the Sept. 11 victims. Food at
refugee camps in Africa wasn't what a growing boy needed, and he's having to
take medication to get stronger. So the 21-year-old gave what he could, $5, and
it was added to the Red Cross donations from other Sudanese refugees living in
metro Atlanta.

"What happened in New York is a bad thing. I would donate my blood to anyone who
suffered," he said. "We were running from a war and many people died, same as
here, and we don't like it."

Now the terrorist attacks have come to affect Garang in a more personal way.

He fears he will lose his cleaning job at Hartsfield International Airport
because he won't be able to pass a background check to get a security badge.

Those who help other Sudanese refugees find jobs say they think prejudiced
employers will feel justified by the terrorist attacks to give the decreased
number of jobs to native-born Americans.

About half of the 145 Sudanese refugees in metro Atlanta --- a group of refugees
known as the Lost Boys of Sudan --- are estimated to be jobless, according to an
official with Bridging the Gap, an immigrant aid organization.

They are among the 3,800 Sudanese refugees in the United States who escaped a
bloody war between Sudan's predominantly Christian and animist south and its
mostly Muslim north. They were children in the late 1980s when Arab Muslim
soldiers from northern Sudan killed their parents and burned their villages in
the south. The boys escaped because they were tending cattle. Garang was 5 when
he was forced to leave and walk for a month to reach a refugee camp in Kenya.
His letters home go unanswered.

"They told us that now, because of Sept. 11, those who are going to be here are
only those who we know 10-year story. Our 10-year story we cannot tell. We were
in refugee camps and there are no phone numbers so you cannot contact them," he
said. "They said those who don't have badge can't enter airport."

Garang's boss, Amos White, said the company is simply trying to prepare their
employees so they can keep their jobs. This includes about four Sudanese
refugees who work as cleaners for the company, Initial Contract Services, White
said.

"We push to get 100 percent of people badged because we know at some point
people who aren't badged won't be able to work at the airport. We are preparing
in case that becomes a fact," White said. "These are fine guys and I've tried to
keep them working."

Ben DeCosta, Hartsfield's general manager, said secure areas at the airport
include the airfield where the aircraft are located and certain parts of the
terminal. Garang doesn't work in a secure area and is therefore not required to
have a security badge, according to federal regulations. DeCosta can't say
whether everyone who works at the airport eventually will be required to wear
security badges. Security standards are being debated by Congress and could
change, he said.

"We are a country at war, and our priority is to keep people safe," he said.

How this heightened concern over security will play out for Sudanese refugees
worries Cindy Williams. She runs a nonprofit organization, Women Are Dreamers
Too, which is in a partnership with the Lost Boys Foundation in Atlanta to help
the Sudanese refugees go to school.

She said before Sept. 11 two security companies told her they had openings and
could place a large number of the Sudanese, but after the attacks the jobs
disappeared. She suspects that some people aren't as receptive to the refugees
now and worries that jobs, particularly security jobs, won't be available to
them.

Officials at one security company said that they'd never received an inquiry
about the employment of a large number of Sudanese nationals. The other company
said that it just didn't receive the contracts from the clients it had been
counting on.

Williams said the uncertainty of job prospects is taking its toll. "These boys
are scared. They see the homeless on the street and they think they're going to
end up like them. It's sad."

LOAD-DATE: November 06, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo:
Gabriel Garang, one of the Lost Boys of Sudan, fears he will lose his job at
Hartsfield International Airport. / TASGOLA KARLA BRUNER / Staff

                    Copyright 2001 The Atlanta Constitution


                              679 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 29, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION CHALLENGED: IMMIGRATION;
Refugees at America's Door Find It Closed After Attacks

BYLINE:  By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1199 words


As many as 20,000 refugees from across the world, cleared to come to the United
States to escape persecution in their homelands, have had their arrival here
delayed indefinitely in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 terror attacks.

What is in effect a temporary moratorium on refugee admissions has resulted from
both concerns about security and the fact that a White House consumed by its
fight against terrorism -- here and in Afghanistan -- has not issued its annual
refugee quota, administration officials said.

For now, the nation's door remains closed to refugees, including women fleeing
the Taliban, Iraqis fleeing the regime of Saddam Hussein, children escaping
civil war in Sierra Leone.  Refugee resettlement groups say many of these people
have been longtime residents of disease-prone, star-crossed refugee camps.

And so, if the Sept. 11 hijackings exposed the alarmingly large gaps in the
government's ability to track who comes into the country, they also made
indirect casualties out of otherwise deserving refugees.

State Department officials say that they regret the situation, but that the
policy is justified given the heightened alert in the country. They say that the
policy will stay in place until the department completes a thorough review of
security clearances for all refugees seeking to come into the country.

In addition, the White House, preoccupied by other concerns, has not yet issued
its annual order setting the number of refugees the nation will ultimately
accept during the current fiscal year, which began on Oct. 1.

A State Department official who spoke on the condition of anonymity said in an
interview last week that it was impossible to predict when the White House would
act. "The security climate that we are in requires us to take every precaution
that every person coming in is properly vetted," the official said.

As a consequence, refugee organizations say, about 40 Afghans who were scheduled
to arrive at Kennedy International Airport from Pakistan on Sept. 29 never left.
Razia Ahmed Gul had qualified for a visa under a refugee program for Afghan
widows and expected to leave Quetta, Pakistan, with her five children last
month. The family even sold its furniture to raise money for the trip. But they
are now stuck and facing eviction from their apartment.

Elsewhere, in a refugee camp in Gambia, a batch of 17 refugees fleeing civil war
in Sierra Leone, mostly women with grandchildren in tow, were supposed to leave
for New York in mid-September. They remain in the camp.

There is, too, a family of Armenian Christians from Iran, including a woman who
is terminally ill, whose flight out of Vienna was canceled. A Jewish family from
Ukraine, scheduled to fly out of Moscow last week, has been stuck there, waiting
for word from Washington.

All those who have been approved have undergone a medical review, a security
check and a one-on-one interview with an American official overseas.

There are up to 20,000 refugees in similar situations worldwide; all had been
approved for entry into the United States as refugees fleeing persecution in
their homelands, according to Immigrant and Refugee Services of America-U.S.
Committee for Refugees, an advocacy and resettlement organization in Washington.

In another measure of the pullback on refugees, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, which interviews potential refugees in camps, has called
back most of its field workers for security reasons. No potential refugees are
being screened for entry except for those who can make it to a handful of United
States embassies that are still conducting interviews.

Advocates for refugees say that they understand the need for careful scrutiny,
but that they worry about a prolonged delay. "You have refugees who are
condemned to a life in a refugee camp, which means not only an uncertain future
but perhaps no future at all," said Robert J. Carey, vice president of the
International Rescue Committee, an agency based in New York City that helps
refugees come into the country. "It would be a great irony and a double tragedy
for the United States, in part because of a very legitimate security reason, to
withdraw its future commitment to refugees."

The annual quota for refugees coming into the United States has declined
steadily for most of the last decade. In the 2001 fiscal year the refugee cap
was set at 80,000; about 68,000 of them made it in. For the 2002 fiscal year,
the State Department had proposed a ceiling of 70,000, most of them to come from
Africa, countries in what was the Soviet Union, and Central and South Asia.

The State Department's proposed numbers are customarily submitted to Congress,
where they are occasionally tinkered with but usually approved with little or no
controversy. Sometime around Oct. 1, the annual refugee quota -- a presidential
directive, as it is called -- is issued by the White House.

The House of Representatives has approved the State Department's proposed
numbers this year, but the Senate has yet to do so. While a one- or two-week
delay is not unusual, refugee resettlement officials say they cannot recall the
last time the directive was nearly a month overdue.

Then again, as the State Department official said last week, government business
has hardly been business as usual in recent weeks. Once Senate approval is
received and the presidential directive is issued saying how many refugees will
be allowed in, the official said, "We will have a clear idea -- a clearer idea
-- of what the new security requirements are going to be, so we can pretty much
start moving ahead on refugee resettlement."

Neither State Department nor immigration officials would say what new security
measures would be put into place.

For the time being, security concerns, war and distractions on Capitol Hill have
indefinitely delayed a new life for a family of 14 from Ethiopia, members of the
Oromo ethnic minority group who have lived in a refugee camp in Kenya since May
1996. They were scheduled to leave on Sept. 25 and join a relative in San Diego.
Their flight was canceled and never rebooked, according to officials with the
International Rescue Committee, which was assigned their case.

A chartered flight of Afghan refugees, mostly widows and their children, was
scheduled to leave Islamabad for New York on Sept. 13. And a commercial jet
bound for New York City, carrying 40 refugees with one-way tickets in hand, was
supposed to leave in late September. Neither jet got off the ground.

Lavinia Limon, a former State Department official in the Clinton administration
who is now executive director of Immigrant and Refugee Services of America, said
she was sympathetic to the need for vigilance in admitting people to the
country.

But, she said, someone who wanted to come into the United States to inflict harm
would be unlikely to take the refugee route, which usually involves spending
some time living in a refugee camp, "often on the margins of existence."

Refugees already undergo the most stringent background checks of any people
seeking admission to the United States.

"If you wanted to come to this country as a terrorist, coming as a refugee has
to be the stupidest way to come," Ms. Limon said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Razia Ahmed Gul, left, had qualified for a visa under a refugee
program for Afghan widows, but her family's entry into America must now wait.
(Robert Nickelsberg for The New York Times)(pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              680 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                     October 28, 2001 Sunday, Final Edition

ATTACKS ON U.S. IMPERIL REFUGEES' ALREADY THIN HOPES;
For many, the fragile and tantalizing dreams of American freedom are suddenly
uncertain.

BYLINE: MEREDITH GOAD Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 3438 words

DATELINE: Portland


Ben Omal and his brother, Charles Okongo, had lived their whole lives running
away from war and terrorism in rural Africa. On Sept. 12, terror once again
tried to keep them from their families and freedom.

They had gathered their few belongings and were excitedly awaiting their first
plane ride - one that would take them from their mud huts in Uganda to a Munjoy
Hill apartment in Portland - when immigration authorities announced that they
and other African refugees would not be able to leave that day after all.

"They said, 'OK, there is problem in New York. Everybody cannot go,' "recalled
Ben Omal, 26.

The two brothers had never heard of the World Trade Center, but they feared a
terrorist attack in New York might prevent them from reuniting with their
parents, brothers and sisters in Maine.

"We thought that things cannot even happen this way," Ben Omal said.

Last-minute disappointments are a way of life for many refugees as they flee
their homelands, languish in camps, and struggle to find their way to America.

The events of Sept. 11 have added to that disappointment, temporarily slowing
the usual flow of refugees into this nation because of wartime priorities and
restrictions on travel for immigration authorities.

The story of refugees' journeys to their new home in the United States is filled
with frustration, sorrow and separation from loved ones.

Among Ben and Charles' first visitors on their arrival in Portland was a cousin,
Ben Kanga, who in 1990 became one of the first Sudanese refugees to resettle
here after fleeing that country's civil war.

Kanga was the first link in the chain of people who immigrated to Maine. Over
the years, the immigrants have included not only his cousins, but also other
family members and friends - all of whom originally came from the same village
in Sudan and ended up in Portland, half a world away.

The soldiers came in the darkness, pounding on doors and demanding confessions.

"At about 4 a.m. a big area like Munjoy Hill would be surrounded," said Ben
Kanga, recalling life in Sudan just before he fled to Kenya. "Then they search
house to house. They arrest all the students and put them in jails. They beat
them."

Kanga was born in a large village in the south called Pajok, near the border of
Uganda, a place where people still live without electricity and cultivate their
own food. When he was old enough, Kanga left the village and started attending
school in Juba, a nearby city.

By 1988, the civil war began to escalate in southern Sudan. When soldiers
started rounding up male students over the age of 16, Kanga worried he would be
next. As the rebel army pushed closer to the city, mortar shells crashed around
him.

Kanga, his daily existence now shadowed by fear, decided he had to leave Sudan.
He became a refugee.

Refugees are people who have a well-founded fear of persecution if they return
to their native countries, and there are now millions of them worldwide. Many
would prefer to go home if they could, but the threat of torture and death is
too great.

"Refugees did not decide they wanted to leave their village," said Matthew Ward,
director of Catholic Charities Maine refugee and immigration services. "They
left because somebody was trying to kill them. If there was a flood in your
country and everything was destroyed and you left, you're not a refugee. If
there was a famine, you're not.

"Every single one of them is a trauma survivor," he said. "The greatest traumas
that you can live through in life are loss of a loved one, loss of your home and
loss of your homeland, and refugees have done all of those."

Today, one in 269 people on the planet are refugees or asylum seekers, according
to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. The UNHCR is charged with
protecting the rights and well-being of refugees, helping them seek asylum,
resettle in another country, or return to their own country.

Kenya became Kanga's "country of first asylum," the place where the United
Nations granted him legal refugee status after fleeing Sudan.

After entering the country of first asylum, refugees can apply to be resettled
elsewhere. The United States is one of 10 countries that offers resettlement
through community-based, charitable organizations such as Catholic Charities
Maine.

The U.S. president decides at the beginning of each fiscal year, in consultation
with Congress, which countries refugees will come from during the next 12
months. During the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, for example, the ceiling for
the number of refugees who could enter the country was set at 80,000.

After arriving in Portland in 1990, Ben Kanga settled into an apartment on
Merrill Street on Munjoy Hill.

Once in Maine, there was little communication with friends and relatives back in
Africa. Once in a while, he'd get a letter from immigration authorities saying
that someone in one of the refugee camps had listed him as a reference on an
immigration application.

"Immediately I would sign it and give it back to them, and say 'Yeah, I need
these people to come here,' " Kanga said.

At that time, Kanga could vouch for just about anyone who wanted to follow him
to the United States, even distant cousins.

Today, the rules have changed.

The U.S. resettlement program now categorizes refugees in terms of need. Anyone
who is in danger in their country of first asylum - say, an Afghan refugee in
Pakistan who is outspoken against the Taliban - is considered first priority.

Next are groups of special humanitarian concern, such as the "lost boys of
Sudan."

Many Sudanese refugees who come to Portland fall into a third category - people
who have close relatives in the United States. A close relative is a spouse,
parent or unmarried son or daughter.


Helen Abwoch had no relatives living in the United States when she first came
here in 1995. It wasn't until she was being interviewed by immigration
authorities in Africa that she discovered an unexpected connection to Portland.

Her story begins in 1993, when she and her four children found themselves at
home alone in Juba because her husband had gone into hiding. The government
suspected he had been listening to forbidden radio broadcasts, and now she found
herself fending off soldiers at her door.

The soldiers said " 'Tell us where he is,' " she recalled. " 'If we don't find
him, you will have to answer for that.' "

Her husband was eventually arrested and beaten, his name added to a "death
list." After two to three days, a friend helped him escape; then they returned
for the family.

The family left Juba at midnight, walking toward a border city controlled by the
Sudan People's Liberation Army. Helen Abwoch was nine months pregnant. The
family's friend scouted ahead for trouble.

"It was a quiet night, calm," she said. "He would leave us a distance. Go ahead
and listen, listen. Watch. There was nothing. It was a bright moonlight."

The family found transportation to Magwi, a border town. There she delivered her
baby - a girl, Linda - and the family left for Kenya "when the baby was good to
walk with."

They landed in Ifo, the same refugee camp in Kenya where Ben Kanga had lived;
they stayed there for the next two years.

Life in this camp was a scary mixture of hunger, disease and danger. The United
Nations handed out a large cup of beans per person every two weeks, along with
some oil and corn flour. Refugees scavenged for firewood for cooking in the
unpredictable bush. Some people pooled their rations to try to stretch them, but
no one ate more than once a day. They ate not to be full but to keep themselves
alive.

Abwoch's 7-year-old daughter Lucy, weakened by hunger, contracted yellow fever
in the camp and died.

Some families formed groups for protection from bandits who raided the camp at
night. They'd fence an area with trees, then take turns standing guard in the
darkness.

Eventually, Helen Abwoch and her family were able to begin the long process of
coming to America, a process that begins by applying for resettlement with the
United Nations.

Once the United Nations decides that a refugee meets its resettlement criteria,
a local voluntary agency takes over the job of processing paperwork and, if the
refugee is being resettled in the United States, setting up interviews with
Immigration and Naturalization Service officials. In Africa, an organization
called the Joint Voluntary Agency performs this service.

When word gets out that immigration officials will be coming to an area, a
nervous excitement builds in refugee settlements in Africa and immigrant
communities in Portland. Everyone prays that their name - or a relative's name -
will be on an interview list posted on a board in the camp. For some, it is the
first real sign of hope for a new life.

Rumors about life in the United States - some good, some bad - are rampant in
refugee camps.

Above all, people want to know that their new home will be safe.

"Most refugees, because of their history, are obsessed with law and order and
safety," said Ward of Catholic Charities. "A safe place to live - and you hear
this all the time - is more important than a job, it's more important than
schools."

Ben Kanga has been asked about everything from the walking distance to school in
Portland to the frequency of drive-by shootings in the United States. One rumor
is that white and black people in America live in separate communities, he said,
"and when one crosses over to where the other one lives, you'll be killed or
you'll be beaten."

After a medical exam and security check, the International Organization for
Migration takes over the immigration process and makes the refugee's travel
arrangements to America.

Although refugees have no choice where they will end up, many say they would
like to go to California or New York because those are the places they've heard
most about in the camps. In cases of family reunification, the refugee goes to
where the family is living. Others could go anywhere.

In 1995, Helen Abwoch found herself sitting in front of immigration officers who
were asking where the family might like to live in the United States, reciting a
litany of possibilities from Colorado to Maine.

Abwoch heard the word "Portland," and it sparked a glimmer of recognition. She
knew someone in Portland. She had gone to school with a boy named Ben Kanga, and
she knew his parents in Pajok, the village where she was born. They were more
like acquaintances than friends, but still it was someone.

Send us to Portland, she said.

When Abwoch and her family landed at the Portland International Jetport, there
were two people waiting to welcome them - a Catholic Charities caseworker and
Ben Kanga.

Refugees who want their relatives to join them in Maine must fill out a form
called an affidavit of relationship, or AOR, listing all refugee relatives
overseas, "anywhere in the world, living, deceased or missing."

"The AOR form is a form that lets the government know that someone's willing to
take you in," said Beth Stickney, executive director of the Immigrant Legal
Advocacy Project.

Once she reached the United States, Helen Abwoch filled out an affidavit of
relationship for her remaining relatives. The form matter-of-factly documents
her family's sad history.

Her father, Joseph Ochan Apollo: Deceased. Her brother, Selestino Oling Apollo:
Deceased. Her sisters, Sabina Agut Apollo, Albira Akumu Apollo and Christine
Aloyo Apollo: All missing.

Still alive and awaiting a chance to come to the United States are her mother, a
brother, a niece and a nephew.

At night, Abwoch dreams about her mother, Seconda Ayero Apollo, whom she has not
seen in 15 years.

"How can a person in the world live for over 10 years without seeing the
mother?" she said. "It's very hard. It's like I live on one planet and she's on
another planet. Sometimes I wake up in the middle of the night because I've been
thinking, thinking about how to see her."

Abwoch lost track of her mother after the death of her brother, who was killed
by government soldiers for speaking English instead of Arabic. In 1995, just as
she was about to leave for America, she heard her mother was in the Kiryandongo
refugee settlement in Uganda. There was no time to make contact with her, so
before she boarded the plane in Nairobi she mailed a letter.

She has been in touch with her mother by letter and phone ever since. Over the
years she has prayed daily that her mother would be able to join her in
Portland, and she viewed it as an answered prayer when Seconda Apollo's name
appeared on the volunteer agency list in May.

But she was in for yet another disappointment.

Seconda Apollo had no money to get to Kampala for her interview. Her daughter
had sent her $50, but it did not arrive in time. Apollo borrowed money from her
cousin, but by the time she arrived in Kampala it was too late. Officials had
opened a file for her, but they were closing up shop the next day and moving on;
there was no time to process her paperwork.

Apollo had to return to Kiryandongo.

Helen Abwoch still hopes that her mother will come to the United States soon.
Immigration authorities initially said the earliest she could arrive is December
or January, but with the complications of the conflict in Afghanistan, it's
anyone's guess.

President Bush's planned signing of the refugee authorization act was delayed
because of the terrorist attacks, and the INS curtailed all nonessential travel
by its employees. The INS circuit riders who travel to refugee camps and other
out-of-the-way places to conduct refugee interviews are temporarily out of
commission.

"If the president signs (the authorization), we expect to see some people moving
on in, but not a whole lot," said Lavinia Limon, executive director of the U.S.
Committtee for Refugees in Washington, D.C. "And the longer INS is not
interviewing in any areas, then the less the numbers are later on down the
road."

When Seconda Apollo does arrive, she'll be meeting her grandchildren for the
first time. Linda, the daughter born to Helen Abwoch just before she fled Sudan,
is 9 years old and a fourth-grader at Riverton School.

"If my mom lets us, we can give her a welcome party," Linda said, shyly
clutching a stuffed animal. "We can show her around the house and show her all
the different things we've been learning in school.

"I would ask her if the war in Sudan is still going," she said.

Lina Alonyo had not seen her cousin Ben Kanga since he was a student and came
home to their village on school vacation. When Pajok was attacked in 1989, it
seemed as if she might never see him again.

Leaving everything behind, she and her family walked 50 miles to the Ugandan
border and settled in a small village.

Ugandan rebels kidnapped her husband, Ochilo Adong, and forced him into labor -
cooking, and carrying their gear to the front lines.

Lina Alonyo was left to take care of seven young children.

"Life was so unbearable because I was only a woman who was not used to doing
things that men are supposed to do," she said. "My kids were still young. They
could not even do anything, so we go and cultivate land, even with the young
ones."

Ochilo Adong was held captive for a year, until one day he crossed a river and
made a daring escape.

The family landed in Kiryandongo, where they were given small plots of land to
grow maize, cassava, sorghum and sweet potatoes. But infertile soils and drought
made farming there difficult.

Meanwhile, the couple's older daughter, Betty, had found her way to the United
States. And when Betty learned that her parents were living in Kiryandongo, she
immediately wrote them a letter to try to find out if they were OK.

"When we got that letter we were so happy because we know at least one person
has managed to go to a better place," said Alonyo. Until that moment, she had
had no idea what had happened to Betty or that she was living in Arlington, Va.

In the days after reconnecting with her parents, Betty and her husband, Charles,
had many phone conversations with Ben Kanga, who told them about the safety of
Portland. They decided to move to Portland in August 2000.

Betty's parents soon followed and arrived from Africa just a month later. They
could not bring their two oldest sons, Ben and Charles, because they were both
over 21. As adults, they were not eligible for sponsorship by their sister.

The brothers went with their family to the Entebbe airport the day they left for
Maine.

"They told them to leave, and everybody was crying," Ben Omal said. "They
thought that maybe we were remaining forever."

When Lina Alonyo and Ochilo Adong arrived in Portland in September 2000,
Catholic Charities helped them find an apartment on Merrill Street, just down
the street from where Ben Kanga lived when he first came to the United States.
They got jobs at Goodwill Industries of Northern New England, and regularly sent
part of their paychecks to their sons in Uganda. When they could, they talked to
their sons on the phone.

"They tell me they miss me very much," Alonyo said last spring. "I feel so bad
that I left them behind. Sometimes when I think about it a lot, it comes as a
pain to me."

Early in the summer, the brothers passed their medical exams. They sat through
cultural orientation classes that taught them what life is like in America.

"Do not bribe police," Ben Omal recalled being told in his class. "When you are
driving a car, you have to tie your belt."

On Sept. 12, Ben and his brother showed up with meager belongings, ready to fly,
unaware that terrorists had attacked the World Trade Center.

"We were innocent about it," he said.

Told to keep checking back, Ben and Charles worried that the terrorist attacks
meant they might never be able to rejoin their family. Finally, on the 24th,
they took their first plane ride and left Africa and their old life behind.

The brothers weren't the only ones whose lives were disrupted by the events of
Sept. 11. Some refugees never got off the ground; others found themselves
diverted to Canada. All the refugees who were destined for Portland during
September - the busiest month for refugee arrivals - did eventually make it
here, but many arrived without their luggage.

"I would say almost everybody who arrived in September arrived without the few
belongings that are emotionally very important to them," said Matt Ward of
Catholic Charities.

Ben and Charles landed at the Portland Jetport around 11 p.m. on the 26th.

Normally, refugee arrivals are warm, welcoming affairs, with both family members
and a Catholic Charities caseworker showing up at the airport. But in the
confusion following the terrorist attacks, no one showed up to greet Ben and
Charles. The brothers did not even have enough money to call their parents from
Africa to let them know they were coming.

They went to the police at the Jetport, and an officer phoned Charles Otim,
their brother-in-law, to come pick them up.

Until they can get their Social Security cards and find their own apartment and
jobs, they are staying in their parents' four-bedroom apartment, bringing the
number of people living there to nine.

It's a difficult adjustment going from working as hard as you can just to stay
alive to living in an American apartment with nothing to do.

"When we remain alone like this, we can feel bad," Ben Omal said. "We remain
sleeping sometimes."

While their parents are at work, the two brothers hang out at home, watching
cartoons and news coverage of the war in Afghanistan on a television equipped
with closed captioning. Sometimes they walk down to East End Beach, but they
can't stay long because they aren't used to the cold.

Ben said he is surprised by the lack of gardens in Portland - "Here, people
cannot even dig" - and he is looking forward to seeing the cold winters his
family has told him about.

"I have never seen what they call snow," he said.

Ben still remembers the exact date his family fled Sudan: March 3, 1989.

He recalls searching through piles of dead bodies for his father after hearing a
rumor that he had been killed. He says he will never go back to Sudan.

"I cannot go," he said. "I will not go back."

His parents do want to return someday, but not now.

"Even if the peace comes, I know that peace will not be real peace, not
immediately at least," Lina Alonyo said. "We have seen a lot of suffering with
our children, and we don't want to go through it again. We just want to stay
here and make it our home."

Staff Writer Meredith Goad can be contacted at 791-6332 or at:

mgoad@pressherald.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: American Journey: In Terror's Wake



GRAPHIC: Helen Abwoch, left, recalls her risky escape from Sudan with her family
in 1993, and the years spent in a Kenyan refugee camp awaiting the opportunity
to resettle in America. In 1995 she asked immigration officials to send her to
Portland.
Staff photo by John Patriquin

Staff photos by Gregory Rec

Ben Omal, a 26-year-old Sudanese immigrant whose journey to America was thrown
into doubt by the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, participates in a fund- raising
car wash earlier this month in Falmouth for the American Red Cross. Ben Omal is
a member of ASERELA, a Portland-based Sudanese refugee group.

At left, Charles Okongo, with backwards cap, and a friend wash their hands at a
benefit car wash in Falmouth earlier this month. Okongo and his brother Ben
Omal, Sudanese refugees, had planned to board a plane for the United States on
Sept. 12, but their journey to America was delayed because of the terrorist
attacks on the Pentagon and the World Trade Center.

Ben Kanga, right, arrived in the Portland 11 years ago, becoming one of the
first Sudanese refugees to resettle here after fleeing his homeland's civil war.
Today, Kanga has become an important U.S. link to many Sudanese people who have
come to call Greater Portland their home.

Staff art Sudan (map)

                 Copyright 2001 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.


                              681 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   October 17, 2001, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Afghans can't eat dollars

BYLINE: Jack Leslie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 646 words

President Bush has asked each of America's children to donate a dollar to help
Afghan refugee families, a commendable action. But money by itself is not
enough.

If hundreds of thousands of lives are to be saved in and around Afghanistan, the
United States needs to build a coalition of governments, foundations and
corporations to provide Afghanistan with humanitarian aid and supplies -- and to
exert pressure to ensure that international relief workers are able to help
those in need.

Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf joined the alliance against terrorism after
the United States made it clear that it was time for him to choose sides in this
new war. He did so at considerable political risk, as did others in the Muslim
world who knew that would prompt violent anti-American protests and governments
would have to respond quickly and forcefully to maintain stability.


We have meticulously sought cooperation on the use of airspace and territory for
waging war. But we are falling short -- woefully short -- on seeking
international cooperation in waging a campaign to assist millions of refugees in
and around Afghanistan.

Right now, we do not even fully understand the magnitude of the refugee crisis,
because the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), which
oversees relief efforts, cannot get its personnel into the most affected areas.
Both Pakistan and Iran have sealed their borders to refugees. In Pakistan, U.N.
personnel are confined to their offices because of security concerns. Most U.N.
workers left Afghanistan several weeks ago, following the Taliban's decree that
they do so, and angry mobs burned a UNICEF office on the border of Pakistan.
Only a few have been able to return, and those who have face new dangers from
the Taliban.

Lives slip away

Earlier this month, the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees, Ruud Lubbers,
publicly expressed his frustration, saying this battle to save lives is being
lost. Relief agencies can now get very little food, water and medical care to
where it is most desperately needed. While the well-publicized U.S. airdrops are
laudable, they are woefully inadequate, especially as the harsh Afghan winter
approaches.

In the past, Pakistan and Iran have been generous in cooperating with
international relief agencies. Since the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979,
both countries opened their borders and hosted millions of refugees. Before
Sept. 11, more than 2 million Afghan refugees were already living in camps in
Pakistan. But Pakistan now is balking at allowing UNHCR to set up refugee camps
in areas where they can be adequately supplied.

Uneasy truce dissolves

I have visited the refugee camps in Pakistan, and I traveled through the Khyber
Pass to Kabul to meet with the Taliban just before the 1998 bombings of U.S.
embassies in Africa. At the time, there at least was an uneasy peace between the
Taliban, the Pakistan government and international relief organizations.
Although we could hear the shelling on the front line with the Northern Alliance
outside Kabul, supplies were getting through. But that no longer happens.

We have heard many times in the past month that this war is different from all
others we have fought. One element of it remains the same, however: It will
result in millions of refugees caught in the crossfire. Most of these victims of
war are barely subsisting, and many are dying in lands far from here.

The international community must make the same effort to join together for
humanitarian relief as it has for waging war on terrorism. Financial support is
not enough if political support does not exist.

Jack Leslie is chairman of the board of the United States Association for the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, a private, Washington-based
charity that supports the UNHCR.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, B/W, AFP; Destitute: Afghan refugees face brutal winter.

                      Copyright 2001 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              682 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 29, 2001, Saturday

HAIDER: KEEP OVERSEAS REFUGEES OUT OF EUROPE AUSTRIA'S HAIDER SLAMMED FOR ANTI-
REFUGEE TALK

BYLINE: Stephen Castle In Brussels Haider: Stop refugee flow

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 515 words


AUSTRIA'S NOTORIOUS far-right populist, Jorg Haider, reasserted his well
-documented hostility to foreigners yesterday, with demands that non-Europeans
should be banned from seeking asylum in his country.

In comments that brought swift condemnation from human rights organisations, Mr
Haider argued that refugees from other continents should no longer be granted
residence in Europe while their requests were being processed. They should wait
in "safe third states" in Asia or Africa, he said.

Mr Haider, former leader of the far-right Freedom Party, has a long track record
of similar views and it will surprise few that he has sought to take advantage
of the aftermath of the attacks on America. He remains governor of the southern
Carinthia province, but handed the leadership of the Freedom Party to Susanne
Riess -Passer in May last year. Peter Westenthaler, who leads the Freedom Party
faction in parliament, said Mr Haider's demands reflected those of the party
leadership.

Human rights organisations reacted quickly. Heinz Patzelt, a spokesman for the
Austrian chapter of Amnesty International, described the proposal as "totally
contrary to human rights, existing (national) law and international law".

He accused Mr Haider of abusing current fears caused by the terrorist attacks in
the United States "to derive political advantage under the title of a 'fight
against terrorism'."

Beat Schuller, a spokesman for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
in Austria, also rejected Mr Haider's plan, saying: "Clearly, we are shocked."
Mr Haider had put into question "the whole catalogue of human rights", he added.

European MPs also reacted with outrage. Simon Murphy, Labour leader in the
European Parliament, said: "This flies in the face of the fundamental values
underlying the EU. We are a community based on shared values of tolerance,
democracy and respect for human rights."

Mr Haider's past praise of aspects of the Nazi regime and his xenophobic and
anti-EU statements prompted temporary diplomatic sanctions against Austria last
year, when the Freedom Party was added to the coalition government.

The government's biggest party distanced itself from Mr Haider's views
yesterday. The interior Minister, Ernst Strasser, a member of Chancellor
Wolfgang Schossel's Austrian People's Party, argued: "Here in Austria, we adhere
to the constitution."

Andrea Kuntzl of the opposition Social Democratic Party, said Mr Haider and Mr
Westenthaler were abusing the "terrible terrorist attacks in the United States
for xenophobic sentiments and an anti-foreigner campaign at the lowest level."
Theresia Stojsits, a champion of foreigners' rights in the opposition Green
Party, said Mr Haider's comments were sickening.

Austria, now regarded as a country tough on asylum-seekers, has a postwar
history of accommodating refugees. It fed and sheltered about 90,000 from
Bosnia, who fled the war in the Balkans in the 1990s, and accepted thousands
from Latin America, Africa, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq and other developing
countries.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd


                              683 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                    September 16, 2001 Sunday Final EDITION

U.S. justifiably worried about Canada's immigration policy

BYLINE: Diane Francis

SOURCE: The Financial Post

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. E5

LENGTH: 1226 words

DATELINE: TORONTO


America's pledge to punish as accessories countries where terrorists reside
should start with its naive neighbour, Canada.

Canada must get its act together when it comes to immigration and refugee
policies. Now it's apparent our policies and malpractices constitute a national
security threat to the United States.

For instance, on Sept. 23, 1997, I published a column in the Financial Post,
citing Interpol sources, that dozens of Algerian terrorists were living in
Montreal, posing as refugees.

Nothing happened.

Then 27 months later, in December 1999, one of these terrorists -- Ahmed Ressam
-- was caught on his way to Los Angeles to blow up its international airport on
New Year's Eve.

This week's catastrophe in the United States, and an investigation into whether
terrorists entered the U.S. from Canada, prove that Ottawa must completely
recant its immigration and refugee policies. Immigration Minister Elinor Caplan
-- who describes any critic as a "racist" or "bigot" -- should be
unceremoniously dumped.

If Ottawa does not change dramatically, the Americans will take action. Likely,
they will "Mexico," or seal, their border permanently with us, making travel and
trade onerous and expensive. And if facing inaction by Ottawa, they will be
totally justified to do so.

The U.S. ambassador this week talked about matching immigration policies, but
said the border would not be shut down because of the importance of the
$1-billion-a-day bilateral trade relationship.

But I don't believe that for a New York minute.

Our government has allowed in terrorists from Asia, the Middle East and North
Africa by the hundreds, if not thousands, as bogus refugees or immigrants.
Montreal has turned into a hotbed of francophone Arab terrorism, thanks to
Ottawa granting Quebec a great deal of control over immigration. The
secessionists, who control that province, have made francophone immigration a
priority. But they have not done their homework.

Canada is also currently accepting, without any demographic or economic
justification, four times as many immigrants and refugees per capita as the
Americans without the manpower, or political will, to properly police the
system. The presence of an excessive number of uneducated immigrants, with
unemployable family members, has imposed the biggest single strain on our
health-care, welfare, housing and education systems as well as on our judicial
and police systems.

Sadly, the result is Montreal has now become a staging ground for Arab
terrorism. Vancouver and Toronto have also become centres of Sikh and Tamil
terrorism as well as meccas for Mafiosi from Russia, China, Vietnam and Korea.

Until this country has a decent followup capability we should severely curb the
numbers of immigrants and refugees we have been accepting. Until this country
has a proper procedure to detain, then immediately deport, bogus refugees, it
should not accept any unless liberated from bona fide refugee camps.

Nowhere is the problem more noticeable than in the fact we let anyone declare
they are a refugee and then support them for years. Recent cases include the
acceptance of a ring of Peruvian pickpockets who were allowed to claim refugee
status even though their country is a democracy. Likewise, we accepted hundreds
of Honduran drug dealers as refugees. On top of all that, Quebec continues to
rubber stamp anyone with two legs just because they speak French.

As for immigrants, we accept tens of thousands of "entrepreneurial investors" as
immigrants without followup to make sure they keep their promises to create
jobs. A report in 1999 showed that 80,000 allowed in did not keep that promise.
We let people into Canada as sponsored immigrants then don't force their
sponsors to support them or pay their medical costs if they decide to renege.

Ottawa's immigration and refugee track record has been a joke. But now it's not
funny. It's downright dangerous to our neighbours and ourselves. Canadians, too
cowed to bring up the subject for fear of being labelled a racist or bigot, must
finally rise up and protest. Failing that, the Americans will take action and it
won't be pretty. But they will be right to do so.

Diane Francis is with The Financial Post.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ahmed Ressam, a convicted terrorist, lived in, Montreal.

TYPE: Business; Opinion

               Copyright 2001 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              684 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

THE LOST BOYS

BYLINE: TAMARA LUSH

SECTION: PASCO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 380 words

DATELINE: NEW PORT RICHEY



A few days after 21 Sudanese refugees arrived in Pasco County, a question spread
through the group.

Where, they wanted to know, was David Gray?

He was the man who brought them to the United States, a fatherlike figure from
the international aid group World Relief. Gray's name and address had appeared
in the corner of a brown envelope sent months earlier to their mud-and-grass
huts at the Kakuma refugee camp in Kenya.

The Sudanese had been curious about David Gray ever since they received the
letters that detailed their journey to America.

During an orientation meeting in a church hall with the Sudanese, another World
Relief worker acknowledged that he had heard the many questions about Gray. The
worker pointed to a man sitting in the back of the room.

It was David Gray.

The Sudanese clapped and grinned as he welcomed them to Pasco County.

During a 1987 civil war in Sudan, many children fled their villages and
eventually settled in refugee camps. Workers dubbed these children the Lost
Boys, after characters in the novel Peter Pan.

Gray acknowledged the transition from an African refugee camp to suburban
Florida would be rocky.

"You have an advantage that most Americans don't have," he told the group. "You
have your feet in two different cultures. Your heart is in Africa and the rest
of your body is here."

Gray is well aware of the culture shock felt by refugees when the first arrive
in West Pasco. During the past 10 years, Gray and his wife, Nancy, have helped
resettle 2,500 people from other countries, about 1,000 of them in west Pasco.

As the directors of the local chapter of World Relief, they have resettled
people from Bosnia, Cuba, Korea, Vietnam and now Sudan. By the end of this year,
they will have resettled 50 Sudanese men.

They have helped bring diversity to west Pasco: with the arrival 50 Sudanese,
World Relief has increased the black population in the greater Port Richey-New
Port Richey area by 15 percent.

Nancy Gray acknowledged that over the years, some people haven't been happy with
the county's newest residents.

"It bothers me when I hear people say, why are you bringing these people over
here?" she said. "Look at what our country was built on before you ask that
question. We're built on diversity."


LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: PASCO TIMES

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, BRENDAN FITTERER, (4); David and Nancy Gray are directors of the
local chapter of World Relief, an international group that helps refugees.;
World Relief volunteer Jerry Richer, case worker Andrew McCray and Mike Salas of
the Florida Center for Survivors of Torture lead the Sudanese men in prayer,;
Magai About and Abraham Deng pick out cabbage at Kash n' Karry in Holiday during
their first trip to an American supermarket.; Abraham Malok enjoys an impromptu
reunion with John Deng, Magai About and Abraham Deng.

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


                              685 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                     July 11, 2001 Wednesday, Home Edition

WORLD IN BRIEF

SOURCE: From staff and wire reports

SECTION: News; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 522 words


Fighting erupts amid Gaza demolition

Israeli army bulldozers rumbled into a Palestinian refugee camp in the Gaza
Strip early Tuesday and leveled houses and shops, leaving scores of people
homeless and igniting a fierce gunbattle.

The army said the structures razed at the camp in Rafah, on the Gaza Strip's
border with Egypt, had been used by Palestinian gunmen as cover for attacks on
Israeli troops.

On Monday, the Israelis tore down 14 Palestinian homes in a refugee camp in East
Jerusalem, saying they had been built without permits.

The United States called such demolitions provocative, and the European Union
said the demolitions would "complicate further the efforts of the international
community and the parties themselves to seek a solution to end the crisis."

AFRICA: African leaders meet on Libya's union plan

African leaders met in Lusaka, Zambia, to fine-tune a plan to transform the
Organization of African Unity, formed in 1963, into a European-style union. The
leaders selected Amara Essy of Ivory Coast to lead the 53-member group in its
transition to become the African Union, the brainchild of the Libyan leader
Moammar Gadhafi, who attended the summit meeting.

THE AMERICAS: Argentina indicts former junta leader

Former Argentinian junta leader Jorge Videla was indicted on charges he
conspired with other South American military dictatorships in the 1970s to
eliminate political opponents.

EUROPE: Motorists to face fee for driving in London

Drivers will have to pay $7 a day to take their cars into congested central
London as part of a plan aimed at reducing weekday traffic by 15 percent. The
fees go into effect in January 2003.

Sinn Fein head decries focus on IRA guns

Gerry Adams, president of Sinn Fein, the political arm of the Irish Republican
Army, said talks aimed at achieving IRA disarmament would fail if they continued
"making all other issues secondary to the issue of IRA arms." Adams spoke as the
negotiations by British Prime Minister Tony Blair and his Irish counterpart,
Bertie Ahern, entered their second night. The Northern Ireland peace accord has
been in crisis since Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble resigned as first
minister last week.

Mrs. Schindler wants Israel to give up lists

Speaking at a modern history museum in Bonn, Oskar Schindler's widow, Emilie
Schindler, said that Israel should return to Germany his documents, including a
list of 1,200 Jewish prisoners he is credited with saving from the Nazis. Oskar
Schindler saved Jews by drawing up lists with fictitious jobs in his factory in
occupied Poland to convince the Nazi SS the workers were vital to the war
effort. His efforts were chronicled in the movie "Schindler's List."

ASIA: Heavy rains in India force 500,000 to flee

Monsoon rains have forced 500,000 people to flee their homes in the Indian state
of Orissa. --- From news services

COMING UP The glittering lights that have illuminated the Eiffel Tower for over
a year will be switched off Saturday until early 2003, when the Paris landmark
will sparkle again with a new system.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Brief

                    Copyright 2001 The Atlanta Constitution


                              686 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                Guardian Weekly

                                 March 7, 2001

UN tackles tragedy of 'hidden refugees'

BYLINE: Victoria Brittain

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 486 words

HIGHLIGHT: Campaign aims to give hope to 25m people displaced within their own
countries


The United Nations is launching a campaign to confront the hidden problem of the
25m people displaced by conflict in their own countries.  There are twice as
many of these people as there are refugees, but the displaced -- mainly women
and children -- receive only a fraction of the assistance given to refugees.

"The level of human suffering and loss of hope for millions of displaced people
should be unacceptable in this age of prosperity," said the UN's special
coordinator for the displaced, Dennis McNamara.  "If we do not get a major
increase in resources very quickly, more people will simply die unnecessarily
from lack of shelter, health or basic nutrition in many countries."

He warned that the problem of displaced people was a big obstacle to stability
and development, particularly in Central Africa, and in parts of Asia, Latin
America and the Balkans.

Richard Holbrooke, the former United States envoy to the UN, was stunned by the
conditions he saw a year ago in the Angolan capital, Luanda, where desperate
street children live side by side with the conspicuous consumption of the
political elite.  His visit sparked an urgency among UN officials to tackle the
problem of the internally displaced.  They set up a network of agencies to
coordinate aid.  However, the UN immediately found itself facing problems of
sovereignty, lack of access and official indifference.

The network began a review last year of a first group of seriously affected
countries.  In Ethiopia, Eritea, Burundi, Colombia, Angola and Indonesia it
found that the most acute common problems were HIV/Aids, sexual violence, lack
of basic nutrition, health and sanitation, inadequate shelter, and death and
maiming by landmines.

The next countries to be studied will be Sudan, Afghanistan, the Democratic
Republic of Congo and Sri Lanka.

All these countries are deep in civil wars that have lasted for years -- or even
decades.  In many of the worst-affected states, such as Sudan and Congo, rival
armies not only routinely abuse displaced civilians, but have made vast areas
no-go zones for aid agencies.

Most displaced people are unprotected from military or official abuse, sexual
violence and abduction for forced military service.

The global programme for the displaced is hard to quantify, but by combining the
budgets spent by various UN agencies it amounts to several hundred million
dollars a year.

"What is clear is that this must be doubled or even more in many situations,"
said Mr McNamara.  "For example, Burundi got less than one-quarter of what it
needed in 2000, Afghanistan less than half.

"Unless there is a serious and renewed effort by all governments -- starting
with those whose citizens are the victims, and supported by those able to
provide political and economic support to them -- the displaced millions will
produce new generations with no place to call home."

Comment, page 14

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, Women and children in a camp in Luanda who have fled fighting in
Angola's civil war, Eleanor Curtis

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Publication, Ltd.


                              687 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 21, 2001

UN shaken by refugees' extortion allegations

BYLINE: Adrian Blomfield

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 372 words


The United Nations is investigating allegations that some of its employees were
members of an organised crime network in Africa which took bribes to resettle
refugees in the west.

Paul Stromberg, a spokesman for the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees (UNHCR), confirmed reports that at least four people who had worked out
of the Nairobi office were being investigated. One of the four is understood to
be a European.

Mr Stromberg said a number of refugees had alleged that they were asked to pay
between Dollars 2,000 and Dollars 5,000 (pounds 1,400-pounds 3,500) to be
resettled in North America, Europe and Australia.

"(The investigation) may involve more than four people. How many people will be
investigated, how many people may have charges brought against them we will only
know when the UN watchdog agency gives its final report."

The investigation is understood to be looking beyond resettlement cases to
reports that guards charged refugees for entry into UNHCR compounds, and that UN
workers demanded payment for appointments and for basic services, he said.

UN staff who allegedly extorted money from refugees should be "harshly" punished
if proved guilty, the UN secretary general, Kofi Annan, said yesterday.

"I think it is abominable that refugees who are already suffering should be
exploited in this manner," he said.

Many refugees said they believed paying a fee to UNHCR officials increased their
chances of asylum.

"The refugees who have money do not have the problems that everyone else has,"
one refugee, Celestin Kangambo, said outside the UNHCR office in Nairobi.

Mr Annan said it was important that the problem was discovered quite early and
that the UN's Office of Internal Oversight, based in New York, had now taken
over the inquiry.

There appears to have been links to organised crime groups, with four UNHCR
staff having to be moved from Kenya after receiving death threats.

"Human trafficking is something which involves in many countries very highly
organised and very violent criminal groups," Mr Stromberg said. "They made very
serious threats against our staff."

Investigations are expected to be complete within the next few months.


LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              688 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 19, 2001 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Refugees in Kenya Tell of Shakedown by U.N. Agency

BYLINE:  By IAN FISHER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1167 words

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya, Feb. 14


Dahir is too afraid to give his full name, and for good reason: he is a refugee.
So far, at least three people with far more standing -- Western workers at the
United Nations here -- have received death threats. For their safety, they were
flown out of Kenya. No one will do that for Dahir.

But they all reportedly know about the same thing: unfolding allegations that
refugees like Dahir, most of them poor and fleeing war, were turned into a
business by the very people who were supposed to protect them.

United Nations investigators are quietly sifting through evidence that corrupt
workers with the United Nations high commissioner for refugees in Kenya -- a
country where corruption is the norm -- extorted fees for the agency's essential
services, which are supposed to be free. The fees are rumored to range from a
few dollars for an appointment or to fill out a form, to up to $5,000 for a new
life in the United States, Canada or Australia.

Dahir, 27, an Ethiopian who fled his country in 1993, said he paid $3,400, sent
mostly by friends abroad, to two United Nations workers at a hotel in Kenya's
capital, Nairobi, last July. He said he paid out of frustration that his
application to move to the West had stalled for four years, while friends
waiting far less time had left as asylum seekers to the United States.

"They said, 'We paid, we got the flight,' " said Dahir, who says he left
Ethiopia in the 1990's because he was tortured. "They said, 'Don't wait. There
is no right of refugees in this place. Your right is your money. Just use your
pocket.' "

Last year, 9,383 refugees from countries like Sudan, Somalia and Ethiopia were
approved to move to outside countries through the United Nations refugee
agency's branch office in Nairobi, where the allegations are centered.

Most eligible refugees have been persecuted or cannot return home for other
reasons. Ten countries accept such asylum seekers from East Africa, but the
allegations of corruption focus on refugees going to the United States, which
accepts most of the asylum seekers, Canada and Australia.

Daniel Tshitungi, head of the Kenya office, said it was impossible to know how
widespread the corruption was -- how many refugees paid to be resettled, over
what period, and whether any unqualified people simply paid to get asylum --
before an investigation by senior United Nations officials was completed.

Mr. Tshitungi acknowledged, however, that the investigation centered on at least
four employees, responsible for processing and vetting the applications of
thousands of refugees, and that the corruption appeared to date at least to
December 1999.

"It's being handled in a very efficient way, but we don't want to make noise
about it," Mr. Tshitungi said.

Several people with knowledge of the investigation say the allegations of
corruption extend beyond the United Nations office to at least one private
agency, and even to workers inside foreign embassies who handle asylum requests.

Peter Claussen, a spokesman for the American Embassy in Nairobi, acknowledged
that an American investigator with the Immigration and Naturalization Service
had been to Kenya recently to decide whether to initiate a separate probe. He
said, however, that no American Embassy workers were suspects.

Officials with the many organizations that assist refugees in Kenya -- where
each day's newspapers carry articles about one corruption scandal or another --
are unusually afraid to speak out publicly about the allegations. Much of that
fear stems from death threats to at least three United Nations employees, one
American and two Europeans, who reportedly found out about the scheme. The
threats were considered so serious that all three were evacuated from Kenya late
last year.

Three of the suspects are Kenyan, Mr. Tshitungi said. They still have their jobs
-- which people familiar with the investigation said put them in the powerful
position of deciding which applications to forward to higher-ups -- though with
what Mr. Tshitungi called severely curtailed responsibilities.

The remaining suspect, an Italian who worked at the Nairobi office for about two
years, did not have his contract renewed as a result of the allegations, Mr.
Tshitungi said.

Refugees, as well as people who work with them here in Nairobi, said everything
had a price in the Kenya branch of the refugee agency: Guards at the door had to
be tipped, they said. One current employee recalled asking about 35 refugees in
the Kakuma refugee camp in northern Kenya, where roughly 100,000 refugees live,
how many had paid bribes to guards on the way into the refugee agency's offices
there. Nearly everyone stood up, the employee said.

"I said, 'Why do you pay?' They said, 'Ah, well, life is sometimes hard.' " The
most expensive service was the one refugees wanted most: resettlement in the
West.

According to refugees, the corrupt workers were able to deliver what they sold
-- suggesting to some United Nations officials that corruption is not limited to
a handful of relatively junior employees.

Business relied on an elaborate system of people known as "brokers," who would
scout out refugees, negotiate prices and help the chosen through bureaucratic
obstacles.

One Somali refugee, Ahmed, said he was approached several times during the last
two years by brokers who promised him passage west for as much as $5,000. He
recalled a specific meeting in a Nairobi cafe where "that person told me: 'Pay
$3,000 and I'll arrange your case. If you know other people who will pay, we
will give you a discount. I will hold your hand into the office.' "

Ahmed said he turned down all offers.

Dahir and two other refugees, another Ethiopian and a Somali, described how the
heads of 30 families met last summer in a hotel in downtown Nairobi. Each
person, including Dahir representing his family, went with an envelope stuffed
with $3,400 for resettlement in the United States.

At the meeting, they said, were two Kenyan United Nations workers, who filled
out forms and collected photographs. Also present were two Europeans who did not
work for the United Nations, one apparently the owner of the hotel, and a Somali
who acted as broker.

But this deal was not completed -- because of the investigation, the refugees
suspect.

Mr. Tshitungi said he first requested an investigation, after refugees began
complaining to him about corruption, in December 1999. That inquiry, run out of
United Nations headquarters in Nairobi, ended inconclusively last June, he said.

He said he then requested a second probe, which began in November. That month,
Mr. Tshitungi also placed advertisements in The Nation, a Kenyan daily,
reminding refugees that the services were free.

Dahir and the other refugees who paid the $3,400 said they had gone back
repeatedly to one of the United Nations workers and the Somali broker. At least
one of the refugees has been beaten up as a result of the inquiries, they said,
adding that they now seem to have lost both their money and the chance to
emigrate.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company


                              689 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 31, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The World;
The Century of Refugees Ends. And Continues.

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1257 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS


YOU don't see them run, because they aren't on the nightly news shows. But in
the last few weeks, tens of thousands of hungry Afghans have been moving toward
Herat, near the border of Iran, driven by civil war, bad government, winter and
the worst drought in decades.

They aren't alone. A continent away, renewed fighting in the Congo has people on
the run again, this time into Zambia, where Angolans are also seeking shelter.
In West Africa, the small nation of Guinea, with three million people, is being
overwhelmed by hundreds of thousands of people fleeing a cruel government in
Liberia and a civil war in Sierra Leone.

They 20th century may have taught the world to deal systematically with vast
refugee flows, too many to count precisely, but the 21st century may have to
invent new ways of coping with them, as the nature and definition of refugee
crises changes. The Afghans, the Africans, the East Timorese still in West Timor
more than a year after their compatriots gained independence from Indonesia --
these people, too, are often running from war and genocide, but the refugee
phenomenon has evolved in some important ways in the last half-century.

"The character of refugee flows has changed a lot," said Lionel Rosenblatt,
president of Refugees International, an independent aid and advocacy group in
Washington. After World War II, he said, "there was some focus and a fairly
quick international response -- at least to keep these people alive."

"One of the problems we face now is that this kind of displacement and suffering
is occurring in very remote places," Mr. Rosenblatt said. Citing Guinea as an
example, he said: "There's no reaction from the world. There's no focus, and
it's going to get worse. Bad men and bad leaders abound." That pattern, he said,
is "cropping up everywhere, really stretching both the attention of the world
and its capacity to respond."

Mr. Rosenblatt has written an open letter to the incoming Bush administration
asking it to consider backing an international rapid-reaction force composed of
troops from nations that are not permanent members of the United Nations
Security Council.

"Many experts agree," Mr. Rosenblatt wrote, "that a force of just 5,000
peacemakers could have saved hundreds of thousands of lives in Rwanda in 1994."
He also advocates the appointment of an official on the National Security
Council who would be responsible for directing America's emergency response to
crises.

The explosion in refugee crises has made the old definitions and rules obsolete.
Is someone who is abused, terrorized or hungry a refugee only if he or she
crosses an international border? At the moment, the United Nations says yes. But
that distinction looks absurd amid the brutality of recent civil wars. In
response, Richard C. Holbrooke, the American ambassador to the United Nations,
and major refugee organizations, have begun a vocal campaign to give so-called
"internally displaced people" the same assistance given to refugees.

What is asylum nowadays?

The cold war era definitions are crumbling before what amount to class-action
petitions: Chinese migrants who say they are hurt by the one-child policy, women
claiming domestic abuse or the fear of traditional genital mutilation. Down the
road is an even bigger test: a drive for the free movement of labor from poor
nations by workers demanding a right to relief from economic disadvantage.
President Vicente Fox Quesada has moved in this direction with calls for the
right of Mexicans to emigrate to the United States in search of work.

And what happens when abusive governments wanting to convince the world that
everything is under control ask international agencies to distribute aid inside
a troubled territory, not outside its borders, so that those who have fled, but
are living in despairing deprivation will be lured back to homes that are not
safe -- if those homes are even left standing? The United Nations faces this
dilemma in Chechnya.

Arthur C. Helton, a specialist in asylum and immigration law who directs a
refugee program at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York, said, "The 20th
century created the refugee framework." Millions were displaced by World War I,
leading to a major exodus toward the United States. "But it was really only
after the Second World War that refugees became a question of high politics," he
said.

Organized programs of resettlement became the answer, which continued under the
auspices of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees -- the U.N.H.C.R
-- created in 1950.

"With the Hungarian crisis later in the 50's, and the vast displacement of
people into Austria, the U.N.H.C.R. became a key player," Mr. Helton said. "It
was very much an adjunct of the cold war at that point." The cold war produced
other refugee crises, in Indochina, Central America and Afghanistan.

By the late 1980's, with the cold war waning, resettlement began to give way to
a demand that refugees be repatriated. The forcible return of Haitian boat
people was on display for all Americans to see.

"Cubans were still welcomed because the emigre community of refugees in Miami
had become a significant domestic political force," Mr. Helton said. "Haitians,
who never made it very high on the foreign policy screen, were treated as
unwelcome guests from the very outset. Generally in the developed world now, the
welcome is no longer out for refugees."

Also with the end of the cold war, the United Nations refugee commissioner
(Sadako Ogata of Japan, who stepped down this month after 10 years, to be
succeeded by Ruud Lubbers of the Netherlands) had to deal with new problems in
the former Soviet Union, as Russians from the "near abroad" tried to return and
those displaced during Stalin-era ethnic resettlements, tried to go back to
ancestral homes.

A migration conference for the Commonwealth of Independent States was held in
1996, but progress on resolving the problems has been slow.

THE 1990's also introduced the concept of preemptive intervention to refugee
politics. That could mean forceful action inside countries where problems are
developing, a policy Secretary General Kofi Annan has endorsed as a last resort.

In barely a decade, the United Nations and private agencies have faced
unexpected new tasks: preparing a safe haven for Kurds in northern Iraq and
scrambling to find solutions for people caught in the implosion of Yugoslavia.
The United Nations has also found itself taking on a new kind of trusteeship,
administering first Cambodia, then East Timor and now Kosovo.

For Mr. Rosenblatt at Refugees International, the foray into "nation building"
has to start in the refugee camps, where people need to be trained for
productive lives when they can go home. Education to break down ethnic,
religious and other prejudices can also be introduced, along with counseling.

At the Social Sciences Research Council in New York, Beverlee Bruce, the program
director and an anthropologist, is also studying education for refugee
populations, with a focus on Africa, as well as projects involving women.

"We want to know, especially in cases of forced migration," she said, "what
really does happen when women go back."

"Ambitions and expectations have risen," said Mr. Helton. "The new
administration in the U.S. will have to come to terms with these new realities,
and will find itself pushed and pulled as this complicated set of new
humanitarian challenges force a new kind of statecraft and a new kind of
diplomacy."


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Scenes From a Century of Flight: Armenians, 1922. After
expulsions and mass deaths of Armenians at Ottoman Turkish hands after World War
I, a huge orphan asylum sprang up in Alexandropol (now Gyumri, Armenia).
(Pacific and Atlantic Press)(pg. 4); Germans, 1946. Hitler's rampage left
millions displaced in Europe, even some soldiers of his "Master Race." (Keystone
Pictures); Belgians, 1914. Citizens and Red Cross volunteers flee the advancing
German Army near Tirlemont. (The New York Times); Jews, 1947. Survivors of the
Holocaust clamored for entry to Palestine. (Reuters); Kosovars, 1999. Ethnic
Albanians fled Serb retribution in the Kosovo war. (Louisa Gouliamaki/Agence
France-Presse); Muslims, 1947. India's chaotic partition ignited flight to
Pakistan. (Max Desfor/Associated Press); Rwandans, 1990's. Tutsis and Hutus fled
each other. (C. Steele-Perkins/Magnum); Cubans, 1994. Refugees took to the sea
to flee Castro-style Communism. (Radael Perez/Reuters)(pg. 5)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              690 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 24, 2000 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CENTER REACHES OUT TO REFUGEES FROM AFRICA ON THANKSGIVING HOSTS SHARE AMERICAN
CUSTOM TO MAKE NEW COUNTRY SEEM LESS STRANGE

BYLINE: SARA NEUFELD, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 575 words


Now that he's been here for three years, Musa Kamara knows a thing or two about
America.

For example, on the fourth Thursday in November, Americans fly all over the
country to have dinner with their families.

It's things like that, Kamara said, that every African refugee should know. So
on Thursday, Kamara held a Thanksgiving Day feast for African refugees
throughout the Bay Area. His aim was to teach the refugees American tradition,
and preserve a bit of their own.

"If all Americans are flying out of state and going all over the place to have
dinner with their parents, why can't we meet and have dinner together and say
thanks to the Almighty God and America?" asked Kamara, 30, a refugee from Sierra
Leone who spent four years in a camp before coming to Arizona in 1997.

Kamara now lives in San Jose with his wife and baby daughter. He works for the
refugee resettlement team at San Jose's Catholic Charities and recently founded
African Refugee Community Services.

About 80 refugees from countries all over Africa came to Thursday's feast at
Saratoga's Ascension Church. Most were dressed in colorful robes and hats from
their native countries. They ate some food they knew, like peanut butter soup
and sweet potato leaves. And they ate some food they didn't know, like turkey.

Before the feast, the refugees stood in a circle, holding hands, and prayed in
English and Arabic. Sister Marilyn Lacey, Kamara's boss at Catholic Charities,
thanked God for bringing them together and granting them freedom.

For many refugees, memories of their war-ravaged countries and the families they
left behind are still too painful to discuss. Kamara and the other 11 members of
African Refugee Community Services understand what they're feeling. So they're
trying to create a new extended family in the Bay Area so that no refugee will
have to spend holidays alone.

They have only $500 in their bank account, but they're coming together somehow.
Kamara spent much of Thursday driving around in a van, picking up refugees who
don't yet have American driver's licenses or cars.

"When you don't have any relatives, you don't have anywhere to go; it's kind of
depressing," said African Refugee Community Services member Dan Tadesse of
Mountain View, who spent his first Thanksgiving in the United States alone 33
years ago after coming from Ethiopia. "Whenever there's any occasion, we make
them feel they belong here."

Kamara said he uses the occasions to teach his fellow refugees as much as he can
about American customs so the country will seem less foreign.

"Today," Kamara told Thursday's crowd, "is a very special day in America." With
a cell phone in the pocket of his khaki pants, he showed one newcomer how to use
a digital camera to take pictures of everyone eating.

Twenty-year-old David Kabanda, who came to San Jose three months ago from the
Democratic Republic of the Congo, said he didn't think the American people had
much faith in anything, until he learned about Thanksgiving.

"This is very important because it shows the unity and the love of America
toward other human beings," Kabanda said through a translator. "It is as ifthey
have open arms to receive the world."

Angelo Wut was still trying to grasp the concept of Thanksgiving, but he, his
wife and four children were grateful for the company.

"I've been here one month," said Wut, 41, a native of Sudan. "I hope, in two
months, I know more."

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
To donate to African Refugee Community Services, call (408) 325-5155.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: TOM VAN DYKE -- MERCURY NEWS
Ikuko Shimuzu, a refugee outreach volunteer, speaks with 8-year-old Mike
Wamungu, an immigrant from the Congo, at a Thanksgiving dinner in Saratoga
sponsored by African Refugee Community Services.
[001124 LO 1B]
PHOTO: TOM VAN DYKE -- MERCURY NEWS
African immigrants stand in a circle and say a prayer in English and in Arabic
before dinner Thursday.
[001124 LO 3B]

                     Copyright 2000 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              691 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                     October 9, 2000, Monday, Home Edition

Refugees lean on each other to assimilate;
 GLOBAL ATLANTA: Every Monday, a look at our changing communities

BYLINE: Maurice Tamman, Staff

SOURCE: CONSTITUTION

SECTION: Metro News; Pg. 3E

LENGTH: 818 words

Agbo Medeousso raised his hand, waving at a passing red subcompact. The driver
veered right and pulled up outside a Crescent Hill apartment building.

Rolling down the car window, Peter Uchala greeted his friend. He spoke English
that approached the Queen's tongue, learned, in part, as a student in Sudan's
capital, Khartoum in East Africa.

Medeousso, a native of Togo in West Africa, replied in broken English he had
picked up since February, when he relocated to the United States.

English is a thin thread binding the two, who, though from the same continent,
have little in common culturally. But their greatest bond is that both are
refugees, thrown together in an Atlanta apartment complex by the vagaries of war
and politics.

Though the concept of America as a melting pot has fallen out of favor as people
place greater value on their ethnicity, in isolated refugee communities
throughout metro Atlanta, recent arrivals like Uchala and Medeousso are coming
together. It's often members of the refugee subculture who offer each other
solutions to problems such as schooling, health care, even transportation, not
the agencies set up to aid them.

That is especially true at Crescent Hill, where refugees have received little
support from Catholic Social Services, the charity that was supposed to help
them settle in the United States. The Catholic agency started moving some
refugees out of the complex last week after stories in The Atlanta
Journal-Constitution documented questionable practices by the agency and the
poor conditions at the Cleveland Avenue complex.

"We have Sudanese, like me, Burundians, Togolese, Taiwanese, Bosnians, Kenyans.
. . Next to me we even have Iranians," Uchala said.  "We are all here and we
have to help each other."

Given the lack of official support from Catholic Social Services, it is hardly
surprising that different groups of refugees in the complex have reached out to
one another, said Caitlin Killian, an Emory University graduate student who
teaches an immigration course at the school.

She said immigrants and particularly refugees often change whom they will
associate with when forced into confusing situations.

Bob Souvorin has worked as a volunteer helping refugees in Atlanta for about two
years. "In my experience, the Somalis prefer to associate with Somalis,
Ethiopians with Ethiopians, etc. But there is a good reason for that: They don't
speak English."

They do, however, see themselves belonging to the larger refugee community, he
said.

On Thursday, for example, he met with a Somali man who told him that his wife's
van pool had fallen apart, leaving seven women without a ride to work. A Bosnian
refugee in the same apartment complex found out about their problem, bought a
van and started his own van pool.

"Certainly, he has nothing in common with someone from the Horn of Africa,"
Souvorin said. "I don't know if they are close friends, but it is a very
practical, workable solution."

Uchala, 39, considers himself lucky.  He spoke English before moving here in
September 1999 and had learned to deal with other cultures while living in Syria
and Saudi Arabia.

As a result, others at the Crescent Hill complex have turned to him when they
need help and he, in turn, looks for newcomers who seem lost.

He even has a ritual when he sees new faces around the complex. If they are
black, he assumes they may be African. If they are, he strikes up a
conversation, offering practical advice on getting jobs and medical care.

Perhaps just as importantly, he offers a friendly face.

"First, we just greeted each other," Uchala said of the first time he met
Medeousso. "Then he came over to my house with his wife, we had dinner. Now we
are friends."

For others, Uchala's assistance has been more tangible.

He helped a sick woman get to the hospital because her family had no idea what
to do. He got his brother-in-law a job as a porter at Hartsfield International
Airport, where he also works as a porter.

He has also helped others find their way through the confusion of being moved
from the Crescent Hill apartments into hotel rooms or new apartments during the
current crisis. (Uchala and his extended family moved into a Clarkston apartment
late last week.)

"I have tried, for certain things, to help who I can," he said. "I did my best,
according to my abilities."

Medeousso said he will miss his friend, but believes mixing with other, more
experienced, refugees has made his transition easier.

Uchala said he leaves the complex with fond memories, despite the nightmare
conditions.

"It's really a great experience. . . When I was in Saudi Arabia and Syria, I met
Indians and Pakistanis. . . When I first came here it was mainly Cubans and
South Americans. It's all a superb experience. You really learn things."

> ON THE WEB: Catholic Social Services of Atlanta: www.cssatlanta.com/

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
Huge puddles of runoff form after rain because of a lack of functioning drains
at the Crescent Hills apartments. The apartments, home to many refugees, have
faced scrutiny after the Journal-Constitution documented poor conditions there.
/ RICH ADDICKS / Staff
Photo
Refugees from different cultures, thrown together at the Crescent Hills
Apartments, have learned to rely on each other for support. Some have made it
their business to help others assimilate. / RICH ADDICKS / Staff (Teaser)

                    Copyright 2000 The Atlanta Constitution


                              692 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                     October 8, 2000, Sunday, Home Edition

WELCOME TO AMERICA: CATHOLIC SOCIAL SERVICES REFUGEE RESETTLEMENT;
 In Their Own Words: The refugees' lives;
 Congo: Pierre Butera, 64

BYLINE: Carrie Teegardin, Staff

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: Reader; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 390 words

ARRIVED: July 20
FAMILY: 10 children. With him here are Oremus, 36, Boniface, 24, Michel, 22,
Jonas, 20, and Frederic, 14.

A native of Rwanda, Butera moved to Congo in 1960. He and his wife, who died a
decade ago, were devout Catholics who raised a large family largely in peace
until Laurent Kabila seized power in 1997 and targeted Butera's ethnic group,
the Tutsis, for persecution.

(Butera was interviewed through an interpreter.)
On his homeland: Soldiers came to my house and they arrested me because I looked
like a Tutsi. . . . We were taken to a prison and we spent about a week locked
in with no food, nothing, and we couldn't see outside. The women were outside,
so the women saw most of it. They would call someone out of the small room we
were locked in and take him outside and shoot him right there. .  . .

What really saved our lives was when the Red Cross personnel came in to check
the conditions of the prisoners. When the Red Cross came in, they took a count
of every prisoner and gave an ID to the prisoners, and that's when the soldiers
could not kill us because they could know what happened. . . . I can't go back
to Congo or Rwanda because always they are fighting.

On coming to America: When we found out we were coming to America it was such a
great joy, going from fear of dying right there. Going to the United States, I
cannot describe the feeling except that it is like someone telling you you are
going to heaven. . . . Before we came here, the picture we saw as to housing
possibilities and community where we would be living, it was good compared to
what we came to on Cleveland Avenue. It was nothing at all like what we felt we
would be seeing and living. . . . It's not a good place to stay with the
children --- it's not clean, it's not safe. But we have no choice. . . .
Compared to the situation of facing death, I wasn't depressed. The most
important thing was to save our lives. It was not the best conditions, but what
can I do?

On moving out of Crescent Hills: At this point in time, I have concerns for my
future and my family. This (new apartment complex) is clean, but that is not the
only thing. We need jobs, education for the children; these are the most
important things. We need to start our lives all over again. I don't really know
what is going to happen.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
Pierre Butera and children Susan, 17, and Jonas, 20, show how they tried to keep
an intruder from breaking in. A man pounded on their door for 20 minutes,
terrifying the family. After that incident, Susan, her baby, Obed (second from
right), and sister Ria, 14, (right) moved to Maine to live with an older sister.
/ RICH ADDICKS / Staff
Photo
Pierre Butera prays for a better life than the one he found at Crescent Hills
Apartments. Butera, a widower with 10 children, said the refugee camp he left in
Africa was better than life at Crescent Hills. / RICH ADDICKS / Staff

                    Copyright 2000 The Atlanta Constitution


                              693 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                     October 8, 2000, Sunday, Home Edition

WELCOME TO AMERICA: CATHOLIC SOCIAL SERVICES REFUGEE SETTLEMENT;
 In Their Own Words: The refugees' lives;
 Sudan: Tetus Ello, 34

BYLINE: Carrie Teegardin, Staff

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: Reader; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 340 words

ARRIVED: June 1999
FAMILY: Wife, Tubia, and children Gideon, 14, Isaac, 12, Fojiya, 7, Sunday, 4,
and Isiah, 1.

As a result of Sudan's civil war, Ello's family was threatened by the forces
from Sudan's north, who burned his house and chased his family away. His family
was in a refugee camp in Ethiopia for three years.

(Ello was interviewed through an interpreter.)
On coming to America: We came here from Ethiopia, where we were in a refugee
camp for three years. When I know I will be coming to America, I was very happy.
. . . When I was in Sudan, we work for ourselves as a farmer, and here we make
money from other people. As soon as we came here, it was confusing because there
is a lot of things in America. We've seen a lot of things in the market. With
food, we don't know what we should do. We don't know what to try; we don't know
what to try or what is good.

On Crescent Hills: The life as you see it here, how dirty the house is. We ask
them to put in good carpet, but they don't listen. . . . The air conditioning is
broken. Nothing works in this house and I ask them to fix it, but they do not
care. There are bugs also. I went to the office and informed them there are a
lot of insects. They never say yes or no.

On making ends meet: When we came, these people gave us very little financial
assistance. They tried to look for a job for us and took me to the Hilton where
I work right now. Since we came, the big problem we have is we don't have enough
money to pay the house rent, to pay for food (or) to pay electricity. The money
I get from the job is not enough. I'm not able to buy a car to take children to
see a doctor or go to work. Whenever I try to buy something special or food for
children like ice cream, we cannot make it. I want to get a better-paying job,
but I do not know how.

On the future: I do have children and these children are in school and if I'm
not here (in America) they might not be in school. The future of my children is
much brighter than if I am in Africa.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
Tetus Ello studies English at his home in Crescent Hills Apartments. Ello has
been in Atlanta for the past year and said he wants to try to get a better job
or further his education, but he does not know where to start. / RICH ADDICKS /
Staff

                    Copyright 2000 The Atlanta Constitution


                              694 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                     October 8, 2000, Sunday, Home Edition

WELCOME TO AMERICA: CATHOLIC SOCIAL SERVICES REFUGEE SETTLEMENT;
 In Their Own Words: The refugees' lives;
 Congo: Andre Kayisabe, 31

BYLINE: Carrie Teegardin, Staff

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: Reader; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 330 words

ARRIVED: March 24
FAMILY: Single. A sister lives in Canada, but he believes his parents and three
other siblings were killed in civil war.

Kayisabe was a graduate student in education when civil war broke out. As a
Tutsi, he was targeted. He spent eight months in a refugee camp in Benin. Now he
works overnight security at a downtown hotel and lives in southwest Atlanta
after leaving Crescent Hills with the help of Catholic Social Services.

On coming to America: To the African community, the United States of America is
a dream. . . . My dream being here was to study. I would like to do something
like computer science or business administration, but I don't know how to get a
scholarship or even how to find a good institution. There is no advice provided
by the agency that brought us there for starting on the scholarships or how to
apply.

On Crescent Hills: Living on Cleveland Avenue was like hell for us. It was too
dirty. And we were living in a community of refugees, so we didn't have contact
with Americans, so it was difficult for us to integrate into American society.
We were living in a world which was apart from the United States. It was like
another country. . . . (When we arrived) they gave us two plates, two forks. I
had a mattress and one sheet. They gave us $ 30 for food and it was for 10 days.
We were surprised and some of us said it's even worse than at a refugee camp in
Africa. It was filthy and it was unsafe too. We saw people drinking too much,
shooting. Almost every night we were afraid.

On Catholic Social Services: We have to make a distinction between Catholic
Social Services as an institution and the people working for it. I mean that
there is bad management of (money) they receive from the government . . . (but)
our caseworker, Grace, understands our problems better than anyone else.  She is
a good woman. She has a maternal heart. . . . She is doing exactly what you
would expect a caseworker to do.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
Andre Kayisabe moves out of Crescent Hills Apartments hoping that his new home,
at Richmond Oaks Apartments off Lakewood Avenue, will provide a better home. /
RICH ADDICKS / Staff

                    Copyright 2000 The Atlanta Constitution


                              695 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                      July 9, 2000, Sunday, Final Edition

WORLD In Brief

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 916 words


EUROPE

Detained Cuban Doctors Flown to Sweden


STOCKHOLM--Two Cuban doctors jailed for more than a month in Zimbabwe after they
sought political asylum have been released and flown to Sweden, officials and
relatives said yesterday.

Leonel Cordova Rodriguez and Noris Pena Martinez, who defected from a Cuban
medical mission, left Zimbabwe late Friday, said Dominik Bartsch of the Office
of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees. Relatives said they arrived in
Sweden.

The doctors were part of a group of 107 physicians providing health aid to
Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean and had been in Zimbabwe for about a
month when they sought refuge at the Canadian Embassy on May 23.

Zimbabwean security agents arrested them the next day before a scheduled asylum
hearing and put them on a flight to Havana. They got as far as Johannesburg,
where they slipped a note to the pilot of their commercial flight that said they
had been kidnapped. The pilot refused to take them any farther. South African
authorities sent them back to Harare, where they were held without formal
charge. The United States has offered them refugee status.

(From news services)


U.N. Probes Shooting of Ex-KLA Officer


PRISTINA, Yugoslavia--In a case that could have serious repercussions throughout
Kosovo, U.N. police are investigating a shootout in which a former Kosovo
Liberation Army commander-turned-politician was wounded.

Ramush Haradinaj was taken to the U.S. military hospital at Camp Bondsteel
following Friday's shooting in the western village of Streoce. He was in stable
condition, said NATO spokesman Maj. Scott Slaten.

Wildly conflicting versions of what happened to Haradinaj circulated through
Pristina, the capital of Kosovo, a province of Serbia. Police and the NATO-led
peacekeeping command refused to provide details.

Haradinaj's political party, the Alliance for the Future of Kosovo, said
initially that he and a relative were wounded by a rocket-propelled grenade as
they traveled early Friday near Streoce. However, a man allied with Haradinaj's
political rivals told Associated Press Television News that Haradinaj and his
followers attacked his home and that the politician was wounded in the exchange.

Friday's incident is potentially explosive for both the international mission
and Kosovo's ethnic Albanian leadership. Haradinaj's party plans to contest
local elections in October. Haradinaj was a leading commander in the ethnic
Albanian guerrilla army during Kosovo's conflict with the Serbian government.

(Associated Press)


THE MIDDLE EAST

Iranian Police Fire on Rioters in Tehran


TEHRAN--Police fired bullets and tear gas at rioters who smashed bus windows and
shouted slogans against Iran's Islamic government, snapping a truce that had
lasted since the bloody suppression of a pro-democracy rally one year ago.

Screaming "death to the clerical government," the rioters burned bundles of
hard-line newspapers, shattered store windows and damaged the shutters on
downtown businesses. Witnesses and authorities blamed hooligans trying to stir
up trouble after clashes between supporters and opponents of democratic reforms.
At least a dozen people were injured, and scores were arrested.

The violence started outside Tehran University during demonstrations marking the
first anniversary of a bloody police raid on a university dormitory. It
overshadowed student groups' peaceful commemorations of the July 9, 1999,
pre-dawn raid that left one student dead and triggered six days of the worst
unrest since the 1979 Islamic revolution.

The trouble followed months of tension between pro-democracy supporters of
President Mohammed Khatemi and rival hard-liners who have closed pro-reform
newspapers and arrested presidential allies in a bid to roll back the immensely
popular reforms.

(Associated Press)


ASIA

Police Chase Ex-Pakistani Leader's Wife


LAHORE, Pakistan--Police ended a nine-hour standoff with the wife of deposed
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif early today forcing her to drive to the family home
outside the eastern Punjab capital of Lahore, police Inspector Mohammed Riaz
said.

Khulsoom Sharif kept police at bay for nine hours refusing to leave her vehicle
after a brief car chase through Lahore that ended at an army compound. There she
remained in the vehicle with three companions while police stood guard.

Eventually she agreed to drive the vehicle to the Sharif family compound in
Raiwind, 10 miles outside Lahore. It was unclear what persuaded Mrs. Sharif to
end the standoff.

The drama began when police surrounded Sharif's home to prevent her from
launching an anti-government march from Lahore to Peshawar, 300 miles to the
northwest. The march was intended to protest the army government that overthrew
her husband last October. Nawaz Sharif is serving two concurrent life terms in
prison on charges of terrorism and kidnapping.

(Associated Press)


FOR THE RECORD U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan said Foday Sankoh, the rebel
leader being held by Sierra Leonean authorities, should face trial for war
crimes despite an amnesty enshrined in a 1999 peace accord. . . . Twenty-one
people were injured in the second day of the running of the bulls in Pamplona,
Spain.


QUOTE OF THE DAY

"This is the first real chance they have ever given my people."


-- Oswaldo Rosas, a Peruvian Indian tribal leader who runs a computer off a
generator in his thatched hut



LOAD-DATE: July 09, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              696 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     June 15, 2000, Thursday, Final Edition

WORLD IN BRIEF

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A26

LENGTH: 1009 words


AFRICA

Ethiopia Agrees to Peace Plan

ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia--Ethiopia accepted a peace plan to end a ruinous two-year
border war with Eritrea, paving the way for a cease-fire and the deployment of a
U.N. force to keep the rival armies apart.

Prime Minister Meles Zenawi said a peace proposal by the Organization of African
Unity was acceptable and had been approved by his cabinet.

Anthony Lake, President Clinton's envoy to the peace talks, called the agreement
"a large step forward, but just that--a step." Lake, who now will help plan a
U.N. peacekeeping force, noted that the accord was a "cessation of hostilities"
and that a formal cease-fire would come only after a final settlement, including
demarcation of the border by the U.N.

The OAU plan calls for a cessation of hostilities and the establishment of a
15-mile buffer zone inside Eritrean territory along the disputed border, to be
policed by the U.N..

Eritrea, which suffered a string of military losses over the last month, has
already accepted the peace plan despite deep reservations.

(Reuters)

U.S. Urges Release of Cuban Doctors

The United States said it has called on the government of Zimbabwe to "meet its
obligations" under international law and release two Cuban doctors detained for
nearly two weeks. The doctors, part of a Cuban medical aid mission to Zimbabwe,
were imprisoned after they tried to defect, asking both Canada and the United
States to accept them as political refugees.

Although the United States agreed to grant them temporary refugee status,
Zimbabwe has refused to transfer them to the jurisdiction of the U.N. High
Commissioner for Refugees, which could then certify them for transfer to a third
country. "The ongoing detention does appear to be against international law,"
State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said. UNHCR officials said that U.N.
officials had visited the doctors yesterday and that negotiations were ongoing
with the Zimbabwean government.

(Karen DeYoung)

THE AMERICAS

Mercury Spill Poisons Peruvians

LIMA, Peru--A truck carrying mercury from Latin America's largest gold mine
spilled its load near a remote Andean village, poisoning 47 Peruvians who picked
up the silver-colored liquid, the mining company said.

Eight Peruvians were seriously ill after the spill near Yanacocha mine, run by
the U.S.-based Newmont Mining Corp., the world's second-biggest gold firm, which
has come under fire this year from indigenous groups over its environmental
record.

"There was a massive gathering up of [mercury] given its very special appearance
and beliefs over folkloric medicine," Yanacocha said in a statement published in
national newspapers.

In the Andes, some communities use stones and metals as part of rituals
involving traditional cures of illnesses.

"There were about 47 cases of poisoning," the mine said, adding that vapor from
the mercury poisoned villagers who took the liquid metal into their unventilated
homes. Villagers suffered from fevers and skin ulcers, and one victim was in
serious condition suffering from pneumonia, it added. The mine produces mercury
as well as gold.

(Reuters)

Court Reinstates Sao Paulo Mayor

SAO PAULO, Brazil--The mayor of South America's biggest city faced applause and
harsh criticism when he climbed the steps to Sao Paulo's city hall after a court
reinstated him despite corruption allegations.

The Supreme Justice Tribunal's order Tuesday reversed an earlier decision to
remove Celso Pitta from his post so that lawmakers could investigate accusations
that he took bribes and kickbacks.

A triumphant Pitta greeted supporters from the balcony of City Hall after acting
mayor Regis de Oliveira stepped down late Tuesday. Oliveira fired Pitta's
cabinet in a now-stunted reform effort after taking over May 26.

The mayoral tug-of-war drew sharp criticism from residents, however, who say the
courts are making a mockery of Brazilian politics.

"The mayor's palace is turning into a species of motel," wrote Clovis Rossi, a
Sao Paulo newspaper columnist. "It would be a slapstick comedy if it weren't
such an unparalleled political and administrative tragedy."

(Reuters)

EUROPE

Italian: Pope's Shooter Paid for Crime

ROME--Italian Prime Minister Giuliano Amato gave the clearest explanation yet of
why his government pardoned the Turkish terrorist who shot and wounded Pope John
Paul II 19 years ago: Mehmet Ali Agca had been in prison long enough. And the
pontiff himself wanted his attacker pardoned.

In an interview with the daily La Repubblica, Amato said "the government took
the initiative because he had already paid severely for his crime and because
the victim--in this case an illustrious victim--wanted him to be pardoned."

Forgiveness ran through much of the commentary published after Agca's sentence
was commuted and he was extradited to Turkey to finish the remainder of a
10-year jail term for killing a newspaper editor there in 1979.

"You can't forget that Rome is a double capital," said political and religious
commentator Gad Lerner, referring to the powerful role of the Vatican in the
political and social life of this country.

Italian President Carlo Ciampi commuted the life sentence handed down to Agca
for shooting the pontiff while he blessed crowds from an open car in St. Peter's
Square on May 13, 1981. John Paul already had forgiven his would-be assassin
publicly and in person.

(Sarah Delaney)

FOR THE RECORD

The main opposition party in Zimbabwe said political violence against its
supporters was escalating as elections approached and farm leaders reported
assaults on two more white farmers. . . . Armed rebels who seized the Solomon
Islands capital of Honiara last week agreed today to give control of law and
order back to police but refused to disarm until a comprehensive peace deal is
reached.

QUOTE OF THE DAY

"I believe there has to be grand natural unity ... We are at a starting point in
history."

-- Kim Dae Jung, president of South Korea --Page A1

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              697 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                               The Washington Post

                     June 10, 2000, Saturday, Final Edition

U.S. to Admit Cuban Defectors Jailed in Africa; Doctors Get Temporary Refugee
Status

Karen DeYoung , Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 726 words


Two Cuban doctors who were imprisoned in Zimbabwe last week after they tried to
defect have been granted refugee status in the United States and are expected to
arrive here as early as Monday, U.S. officials said yesterday.

Officials said Leonel Cordova Rodriguez, 31, and Noris Pena Martinez, 25, were
interviewed in Harare, the Zimbabwean capital, yesterday by an Immigration and
Naturalization Service officer from the agency's regional office in Nairobi. "We
have given them temporary refugee status," said an official in Washington.

Once they arrive in the United States, the doctors will be covered under the
1966 Cuban Adjustment Act, which allows any Cuban national here to apply for
permanent residence.

The U.S. decision to admit the Cubans was an unexpected development at the end
of a harrowing week in which the Zimbabwe government, allegedly acting with
Cuban diplomats, attempted to secretly deport the two doctors back to Havana
after they asked for political asylum. When airline officials in neighboring
South Africa refused to allow them aboard a plane to Paris en route to Havana,
they were brought back to Harare and imprisoned for five days before Zimbabwe
responded to U.N. inquiries about their whereabouts.

Once their story became public this week, some members of Congress accused the
State Department and INS of ignoring requests for U.S. asylum the doctors made
before their disappearance. "I was very disappointed to hear that the United
States Embassy in Harare . . . denied them an interview with U.S. officials,"
Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-Fla.)wrote U.S. Ambassador Tom McDonald. "Their
return to communist Cuba would subject their lives to grave danger."

U.S. officials denied that the two had been turned away. The INS, said
spokeswoman Maria Cardona, had "gone by the book" in its dealings with them.

According to information provided by the office of the U.N. High Commissioner
for Refugees (UNHCR), Canadian and U.S. officials, and the doctors themselves,
their path to refugee status was a convoluted one.

When they arrived in Harare in April as part of a Cuban aid team, the two had
already decided to defect, they later told a Harare newspaper. Their destination
of choice, they said, was Canada, and, on May 24, they visited the Canadian High
Commission, or embassy, in Harare. Canadian officials told them that under
international refugee conventions, they would first have to be interviewed by
Zimbabwean refugee officials and the UNHCR in Harare. Like the United States,
Canada has no Harare-based asylum officials, but they were told one could be
brought from Nairobi to interview them once they had been cleared by the U.N.
process.

At the local UNHCR office, they were given an appointment for a June 2
interview. Zimbabwean refugee officials also scheduled an interview with them
for June 2.

The doctors then visited the U.S. Embassy, apparently hedging their bets on
Canada. According to U.S. officials, they were told to complete the U.N.
processing, after which they would be interviewed by a Nairobi-based U.S.
official.

Although Zimbabwean officials had sent the doctors to a secure refugee holding
facility to await their interviews, the two decided they would rather stay in a
private residence. Just before dawn on June 2, according to the doctors'
subsequent account, armed Zimbabwean police took them from that residence to an
immigration office. In the presence of Cuban diplomats, they said, they were
asked to sign unspecified documents. They refused.

They were then placed under guard on a flight to Johannesburg. There, as
Zimbabwean security officers attempted to force them aboard the flight to Paris,
they slipped a note to an Air France official saying they were being kidnapped.
Air France refused to allow them to board, and the Zimbabweans took them back to
a prison in Harare.

On Wednesday, Zimbabwe acknowledged their whereabouts and they were visited by a
U.N. official; on Thursday, they met with Zimbabwean refugee officials.
Yesterday, they were approved as legitimate international refugees and
interviewed by a U.S. official.

Cuba and Zimbabwe, which have a close relationship, have denied any untoward
actions in the case.

Cordova has said he has a wife and three children in Cuba; Pena is a single
woman who has relatives in Miami.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Washington Post


                              698 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 12, 2000, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.N. Official Praises Cuban Aid for Refugees

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 369 words

DATELINE: HAVANA, May 11


The United Nations high commissioner for refugees, Sadako Ogata, praised the
Cuban government today for giving asylum in recent decades to thousands of
people, most fleeing conflict and political persecution in Latin America and
Africa.

"By allowing so many refugees to stay in their country, Cubans have given the
world a powerful message of solidarity and understanding," Mrs. Ogata said in a
speech at Havana University during the first visit by a United Nations high
commissioner for refugees to the Communist-ruled Caribbean island.

Since coming to power in 1959, President Fidel Castro's government has provided
refuge to thousands of opponents of right-wing dictatorships around Latin
America as well as to victims of conflicts in Africa.

"Cuba has a very important tradition of giving asylum and protection to refugees
from many parts of the world," Mrs. Ogata added. "I would like to acknowledge
and praise its openness and generosity."

She said that Cuba had given "some of the most farsighted examples of how to
address and resolve refugee problems," and added that she was "particularly
impressed by the opportunities provided to refugees to have access to public
services, including support for those needing special care because of the severe
physical scars left by war."

She urged Cuba, however, to sign a 1951 United Nations convention and 1967
protocol on refugee status.

"The system established by these international treaties would be greatly
strengthened by the full participation of Cuba -- the last major country in the
Americas not to have acceded to these treaties," she said.

Mrs. Ogata made no reference to Cuba's own emigration problems. Every year,
thousands of Cubans try to leave the island illegally to reach the United
States, often making the perilous sea voyage in flimsy boats.

That situation has been graphically illustrated by the case of Elian Gonzalez,
the 6-year-old Cuban boy who was rescued at sea last November after a migrant
boat capsized, killing his mother and nine other Cubans. His Florida-based
relatives have been pursuing a legal fight to keep him in the United States,
against the wishes of his father, who wants him to return to Cuba.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              699 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 5, 2000, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

WORLD

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8

LENGTH: 644 words



NORTH AMERICA

MEXICO

Operative in drug mob is arrested, police say

Dozens of police and soldiers arrested a man described as the second in command
of the violent Arellano-Felix drug mob after a shootout in Baja California,
prosecutors said Thursday.

The arrest Wednesday of Ismael Higuera Guerrero marks the beginning of the end
for the Tijuana-based drug gang, said Mexico's top anti-drug prosecutor, Mariano
Herran Salvatti.

The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration called the arrest "a major victory for
both Mexican and U.S. law enforcement" and called Higuera Guerrero "the most
visible member" of the gang, after brothers Ramon and Benjamin Arellano Felix
dropped out of sight to avoid arrest.

AFRICA

BURUNDI

Rebels kill 15 in raid at night, officials say

Burundian rebels believed to operate from refugee camps in neighboring Tanzania
have killed 15 people in a nighttime raid near a frontier town, authorities said
Thursday.

In the attack Tuesday on Kinyinya, the Hutu rebels also wounded an undetermined
number of people and burned several houses, said Gabriel Gunungu, the governor
of southern Makamba province.

The motivation for the raid on Kinyinya, 68 miles southeast of the capital
Bujumbura, was not known, but the rebels often carry out reprisals against Hutu
civilians suspected of providing food or information to government forces.

CONGO

Government will assist U.N. observer force

Congo's government agreed Thursday to cooperate with U.N. plans to deploy a
5,500-member observer force to monitor a shaky cease-fire in this war-battered
central African nation.

The deal was struck during a rare visit by seven U.N. Security Council members
to the capital, Kinshasa. The mission's leader, U.S. Ambassador Richard
Holbrooke, said he was cautiously optimistic about the accord but warned that
this week's killings and kidnappings of U.N. staff in Sierra Leone could affect
the Congo plans.

Under the vaguely worded Status of Forces Agreement, Congo's government agreed
to help ensure the safety and free movement of the U.N. observers. In the past,
Congo has denied U.N. monitors permission to travel to some battlefronts and
mining regions. Congo also has refused to guarantee the welfare of U.N. staff.

ASIA

SRI LANKA

Nation resumes relations with Israel after 30 years

Sri Lanka resumed diplomatic relations with Israel after 30 years on Thursday, a
move that could help the island nation acquire arms for its war against
separatist rebels. In Tel Aviv, Israeli Foreign Minister David Levy welcomed the
announcement and said a delegation of Sri Lankan officials would travel to
Israel to discuss the renewed relations.

State-run media said it appeared Sri Lanka wants to buy weapons from Israel, a
major arms producer. The Sri Lankan army is in dire need of weapons to contain
the Tamil Tiger rebels, who are fighting to establish a separate homeland. Sri
Lanka severed diplomatic ties in 1970 after its Muslim population objected to
Israel's refusal to vacate occupied Arab territories.

INDONESIA

Remote areas report casualties from quake

The death toll from a powerful earthquake that struck in central Indonesia
increased to nine Friday as remote areas began reporting casualties, officials
said.

The 6.5-magnitude quake hit at 11:21 a.m. Thursday, damaging hundreds of homes
and buildings along a wide stretch of eastern Sulawesi and the islands of Peleng
and Banggai, according to the Antara news agency.

Officials said the death toll probably would rise as reports from coastal
villages affected by a small tidal wave caused by the quake begin to come in.

Sevatius Suyitno, chief of the Geophysics Agency in Luwuk, a town on the eastern
coast of central Sulawesi, said 80 percent of the buildings on Banggai were
damaged.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: World Briefs Column

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              700 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    May 5, 2000, Friday, THREE STAR EDITION

WORLD

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8

LENGTH: 624 words



NORTH AMERICA

MEXICO

Operative in drug mob is arrested, police say

Dozens of police and soldiers arrested a man described as the second in command
of the violent Arellano-Felix drug mob after a shootout in Baja California,
prosecutors said Thursday.

The arrest Wednesday of Ismael Higuera Guerrero marks the beginning of the end
for the Tijuana-based drug gang, said Mexico's top anti-drug prosecutor, Mariano
Herran Salvatti.

The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration called the arrest "a major victory for
both Mexican and U.S. law enforcement" and called Higuera Guerrero "the most
visible member" of the gang, after brothers Ramon and Benjamin Arellano Felix
dropped out of sight to avoid arrest.

AFRICA

BURUNDI

Rebels kill 15 in raid at night, officials say

Burundian rebels believed to operate from refugee camps in neighboring Tanzania
have killed 15 people in a nighttime raid near a frontier town, authorities said
Thursday.

In the attack Tuesday on Kinyinya, the Hutu rebels also wounded an undetermined
number of people and burned several houses, said Gabriel Gunungu, the governor
of southern Makamba province.

The motivation for the raid on Kinyinya, 68 miles southeast of the capital
Bujumbura, was not known, but the rebels often carry out reprisals against Hutu
civilians suspected of providing food or information to government forces.

ALGERIA

Security forces battle insurgents, paper says

Security forces battled insurgents along Algeria's border with Morocco this
week, killing seven people and injuring four, a national newspaper reported
Thursday.

The security forces launched a large-scale operation Tuesday near the border
town of Maghnia, where rebels were hiding, La Tribune reported. Officers closed
in on a group of about 50 rebels, killing five rebels and capturing one.

In addition, two security agents were killed and four were wounded by a mine
that exploded during the operation. Moroccan forces on the other side of the
border seemed to be working with the Algerians to root out the rebels, which
have spread terror among the region's residents, the paper said.

ASIA

SRI LANKA

Nation resumes relations with Israel after 30 years

Sri Lanka resumed diplomatic relations with Israel after 30 years on Thursday, a
move that could help the island nation acquire arms for its war against
separatist rebels.

The resumption of ties went into effect immediately, a Foreign Ministry
statement said. In Tel Aviv, Israeli Foreign Minister David Levy welcomed the
announcement and said a delegation of Sri Lankan officials would travel to
Israel to discuss the renewed relations.

State-run media said it appeared Colombo wants to buy weapons from Israel, a
major arms producer and exporter. The Sri Lankan army is in dire need of weapons
to contain the Tamil Tiger rebels, who are fighting to establish a separate
homeland. Sri Lanka severed diplomatic ties in 1970 after its Muslim population
objected to Israel's refusal to vacate certain occupied Arab territories.

EUROPE

FRANCE

Police question 10 over 2 McDonald's bombings

French police have detained a total of 10 people for questioning in connection
with the bombings last month of two McDonald's restaurants in Brittany that left
one person dead, judicial sources said Thursday.

Officials took a person in for questioning Wednesday near the town of Fougeres,
the sources said. Those questioned include two Basques and eight suspected
Breton separatists.

Small groups of Breton separatists are seeking autonomy for the coastal region
in northwestern France, which has maintained a strong cultural identity
reflecting the Bretons' Celtic origins.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: World Briefs Column

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              701 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 24, 2000, Monday, Late Edition - Final

In Searing Images, Ravages of Upheaval;
Brazilian Chronicles the Toll of Migration

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1652 words

DATELINE: PARIS, April 23


In the early 1990's, while traveling the world to photograph the vestiges of the
Industrial Age, Sebastiao Salgado repeatedly came across large numbers of people
on the move, not only refugees and displaced persons fleeing wars or famine, but
also legions of peasants migrating to cities to escape poverty. He had seen this
before, but he now understood the phenomenon to be global.

"There hasn't been a population upheaval like this in modern times," said Mr.
Salgado, 56, the Brazilian photographer. "Hundreds of millions of people in
Africa, Asia and Latin America have been forced to leave their homes for similar
reasons, whether political or economic. The world has gone from majority rural
to majority urban. For the first time we're becoming truly modern. Everything is
now interconnected."

So after concluding his project on the vanishing forms of manual labor with a
widely acclaimed book, "Workers: Archaeology of the Industrial Age," Mr. Salgado
turned his attention to what he calls "the reorganization of the human family."
He set out to record why people leave their communities, what happens to them en
route and where they end up. He also wanted to show the danger, suffering and
misery that often accompany their flights.

Now, 6 years and 35 countries later, he has published the results of his travels
in a book of 363 black-and-white photographs, "Migrations: Humanity in
Transition," accompanied by a slimmer volume of 83 portraits, "The Children:
Refugees and Migrants" (both published in the United States by Aperture).
Related exhibitions have just opened at the George Eastman House in Rochester
and the Maison Europeenne de la Photographie in Paris.

Mr. Salgado's picture of the world at the turn of the millennium is not pretty.
His images show victims of war and repression in Afghanistan, Kurdistan, Rwanda,
Congo, Angola and Mozambique as well as the Balkans. They follow Latin Americans
trying to enter the United States, Africans intent on slipping into Europe and
Vietnamese boat people stranded across Asia. And they convey something of the
despair and violence of the struggle for land in Latin America.

With the flight from countryside to cities accounting for the largest movement
of people, above all in Latin America and Asia, Mr. Salgado's photographs also
bare humanity's "new urban face," as he puts it: vast unmanageable metropolises
scarred by overcrowded shanty-towns, rampant unemployment, environmental
degradation, urban violence and pockets of dizzying wealth and privilege.

"Different national experiences seem to produce the same results," Mr. Salgado,
who is based in Paris, said in a recent interview. "At times I wasn't sure if I
was in Mexico City or Manila."

"The Children," with its portraits of destitute girls and boys peering
mysteriously into the lens, is in a sense a footnote on the state of the world.
"When I was with refugees from Mozambique, there were children everywhere
stopping me from working," he recalled. "So I said: 'If you want to be
photographed, line up here. Then you let me work, O.K.?' It was a trick I used a
number of times. Then, when I finally looked at the pictures, I was struck by
their intensity. I decided the children should have their own book."

Posed photographs, though, are not typical of Mr. Salgado's work. His camera
invariably focuses on people, but it seeks them out in the context of their
lives, perhaps in close-up, perhaps in wide shots, but always with the idea of
telling a broader story. He has little interest in covering news as such
(although he did photograph the Rwandan genocide in 1994). Rather, he wants the
emotion awakened by his photographs to provoke political reflection, and he
includes lengthy captions in his books to facilitate the process.

If he succeeds, though, it is because images that may be disturbing to view are
also striking for their light and composition. And this has led some critics to
question whether it is proper to portray misery with an artist's eye. In a
recent guest column in Le Monde, Jean-Francois Chevrier, an art professor, went
so far as to accuse Mr. Salgado of "sentimental voyeurism" and "exploitation of
compassion." Yet for other critics it is the very beauty of his photographs that
gives dignity and individuality to those whose misfortunes are being chronicled.

"Every photographer has his own visual language," Mr. Salgado responded. "I know
of no other way of working. I take photographs the way I see them, with the
light that I have known, with the life that I have had."

It has not been uneventful. In his late teens he left his home town, Aimores in
the Brazilian hinterland, to attend college in the port city Vitoria, where he
met Lelia Wanick, who became his wife. By the time they moved to Sao Paulo to
allow Mr. Salgado to study for a doctorate in economics, middle-class students
were taking up arms against Brazil's military dictatorship. And like many
educated young Brazilians, he sympathized with the rebel cause.

Finally, faced with the choice of risking arrest or going underground, he left
Brazil in 1969 to complete his studies in Paris, becoming, he recalled,
"part-migrant, part-refugee, part-exile." Two years later he found work with the
London-based International Coffee Organization as an economist and made his
first trip to Africa, including areas devastated by drought. When he took up
photography in 1973, he already viewed the world through its economic and
political problems.

His first photo reportage took him back to Africa to cover famine in the Sahel
region. (He later published a book, "Sahel: Man in Distress," in association
with Doctors Without Borders.) But while he readily accepted assignments for
magazines and newspapers (including one for The New York Times Magazine, when he
witnessed and photographed the attempted assassination of President Ronald
Reagan in 1981), Mr. Salgado gradually began to orient his work toward what he
calls photographic investigations.

One led to a book on rural life in Latin America called "Other Americas," for
which this reporter wrote an introductory essay; another resulted in "Workers."

These long-term projects in turn required him to change his way of working.
Above all he needed outside backing, which in the case of "Migrations" came from
Kodak Professional, a division of Eastman Kodak, and Leica Camera as well as
from a half-dozen magazines that published individual reportages as the project
advanced. At the same time, to the dismay of some colleagues, in 1994 Mr.
Salgado left the Magnum photo cooperative and set up Amazonas Images, perhaps
the only agency created to distribute a single photographer's work.

Managed by his wife, an architect, Amazonas Images has enabled Mr. Salgado to
ensure that his work is widely seen. "Workers," for instance, was published in
seven languages, while its photographs have been shown in some 60 exhibitions.
With "Terra," Mr. Salgado's 1998 book about the land struggle in Brazil, instead
of a photo exhibition, 1,000 packages containing 50 posters each were sold for
$500 or donated to political, church and labor groups across Brazil. The income
from the book and posters went to the country's Movement of the Landless.

With "Migrations," which was designed and edited by Amazonas Images, the
promotion strategy is no less ambitious. Before the opening of the Paris
exhibition, which runs through Sept. 3, the Canal-Plus television network
broadcast 30 two-minute films using Mr. Salgado's photographs, while Le Monde
published 12 portraits from "The Children" on successive days. And to reach
beyond Paris, nongovernmental organizations in France are putting on 120 shows
of 61 posters donated by Amazonas Images.

With both "Migrations" and "The Children," which have their own multilingual Web
site (www.sebastiaosalgado.com.br), a total of 100,000 copies have been
published of each in six languages (English, German, Italian, French, Spanish
and Portuguese), while 16 related exhibitions have already been scheduled. (The
show at the George Eastman House in Rochester through June 18 will travel to the
International Center of Photography in Manhattan in the fall.) And where
exhibitions are held, Mr. Salgado encourages local newspapers to organize
debates, not about his photographs but about what they show.

And while the results of his travels to dismal corners of the world may not go
unnoticed, the experience of witnessing violence, despair and misery on such a
scale has eroded Mr. Salgado's belief in humanity. "I am a different person from
when I began this," he said. "Some of the things I saw made me literally ill.
The truth about human beings seems to be the truth of violence. Poverty and the
destruction of the planet are going hand in hand. I once had political beliefs,
I thought there were answers. I am no longer sure."

But he has not given up. If he has concluded there are no global solutions, he
evidently still believes that individuals can make a difference. So on the farm
where he was reared, where 1,500 acres of pristine Atlantic Forest were cut down
50 years ago to make room for cattle, Mr. Salgado and his wife have invested a
good part of their savings in a program to reforest the area with its original
species. This winter the first 80,000 trees were planted.

On its own, of course, the farm can hardly reverse Brazil's devastating
deforestation. But plans also include a school on the property that will offer
environmental courses to high school students, teachers and municipal officials.
The idea, then, is for the farm to serve as a role model.

Even more, it is to convince Brazilians that they can do something to save their
forests. And for this, it helps to be the country's most famous photographer.
When Brazilians come to hear Mr. Salgado talk about his photography, he never
misses a chance to lecture them on the environment.


http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: IN TRANSITION -- Far left, Hutus from Rwanda, blocked by rebels
from Zaire, camp along railroad tracks (circa 1997). Left, Church Gate Station,
Bombay (1995). Below left, waiting for food distribution in Kabul, Afghanistan
(1996). (Photographs by Sebastiao Salgado/Amazonas Images)(pg. E1); Sebastiao
Salgado, who is based in Paris, before the St. Martin canal. (Alan Riding/The
New York Times)(pg. E5)

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              702 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 21, 2000

Refugees from the system

BYLINE: Daniel Hannan MEP

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 261 words


Mark Leonard has a go at the Conservatives for ignoring Britain's tradition of
offering sanctuary to the persecuted, such as the Huguenots (Comment, April 18).
Had he read William Hague's speech, he would have found a specific mention of
the Huguenots. Genuine refugees are suffering under the asylum regime. I have
come across cases in my constituency of people who have experienced terrible
traumas and find themselves elbowed aside by those who have been rehearsed in
how to exploit the system. Mr Leonard has every right to disagree with us, but
please attack us on the basis of what we're actually saying. Daniel Hannan MEP I
arrived here in 1959 from Mozambique, where, as a Portuguese settler, I had been
imprisoned for rebelling against Salazar's colonial regime. I became a
journalist, being now the oldest-serving outside contributor of the BBC
Portuguese service for Africa. In contrast with fellow exiles working for Radio
Moscow, the Voice of America, Radio Prague, Deutsche Welle and other similar
international services, I enjoyed a remarkable freedom of movement and
expression. If you compare Britain with most countries, it stands out as one of
the best. For the sake of civilisation, keep it that way. Antonio de Figueirado

London

David Leigh (Thank You, England, April 19) omits the acceptance by our fathers
and grandfathers of the widespread corruption of immigration functionaries.
Thank goodness we can trust them today not to make covert financial demands in
return for granting entry to refugees! Elkan Allan

London


LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              703 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 20, 2000, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Character Test

SECTION: Section 4; Page 12; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 151 words



To the Editor:

"The Next President's Duty to Intervene" (Op-Ed, Feb. 13), by Michael Ignatieff,
clearly conveys the tug-of-war between national interests and values. Americans
want a president with a strong moral character and a conviction to lead by our
values, not merely our national interests. But global stability has become both
a national interest and an American value, so a president must respond to the
threat of genocide or "ethnic cleansing" not only in Europe but also in Africa,
Asia and the Americas.

Human rights issues never win presidential campaigns, but character will surely
be important in this one. Let us keep prodding candidates to clarify their plan
of action or inaction in situations of genocide. Let them reveal their character
and convictions.

ANTHONY J. KOZLOWSKI
Minneapolis, Feb. 14, 2000

The writer is president of the American Refugee Committee.

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company


                              704 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

Going it alone: Husband left, baby's nearly due and family's far away

BYLINE: DEBBIE PARKES

SECTION: News; A4

LENGTH: 524 words


Edmee is due on Jan. 1. She will have her baby without the support of extended
family. Without the support of her husband, for that matter.

She is a refugee from the Republic of Congo in Central Africa. She came here in
1997 with her son, now 6, after her parents were killed in civil strife in that
country, she said.

She's not sure about the fate of most of her 14 brothers and sisters, she said.
She has managed to track down only three of them, but none are in North America.

Edmee's husband had come to Canada a few months before her. The two filed
separate refugee claims, Edmee said. Hers was accepted but his was turned down.

Because they were married in a traditional (tribal) ceremony, they had no
official marriage documents to show Canadian officials, which might have enabled
her husband to stay, too, Edmee said.

She said the situation added more tension to an already difficult marriage. Her
husband would get angry and make moves as though to hit her. Each time, Edmee
would duck out of the way, she said.

She said her husband decided on his own that he should leave. So, in May, they
separated.

A few months later, her husband went to the United States, Edmee said. She has
not heard from him.

She stopped working partway through her pregnancy because her job involved heavy
lifting. She applied for welfare but didn't get anything for three months.

She fell behind on her rent and was depending on handouts from food banks to
eat. She said she'd return to the welfare office almost daily to get the problem
sorted out. Each time, a worker would ask her for documents that she explained
she could not possibly provide - for instance, a Canadian passport.

When her son was at school, she would shut herself in her apartment and cry.

When a CLSC nurse told her she was worried that Edmee wasn't putting on enough
weight, Edmee told her about her welfare problem. Edmee said the nurse made some
phone calls that led to her finally getting welfare. Still, she said, she was
told they absolutely couldn't pay her for the months past other than to give her
an extra $275.

Edmee said she has a horror of debts and has scrimped in every way she could to
catch up on her money owing. She now owes only $100 back rent and she's made
arrangements with Hydro-Quebec for her outstanding electricity bill. But she has
no savings.

After buying a few items such as

diapers for the baby and some cereal for her son, she still has $25 left of her
$125 Gazette Christmas Fund cheque, she said.

She put $15 in the bank and has $10 at home. You never know, she said. When the
baby starts to push, she may need to pay for a taxi.

For more than 30 years, the Gazette Christmas Fund has been helping people in
need.

Donations can be made to:

The Gazette Christmas Fund

Box 11057

Succ. Centre Ville

Montreal H3C 4Z4

To donate by credit card, phone (514) 987-2400. Or go online to
https://secure1.southam. com/montrealgazette/fund.html; credit-card information
given over this server cannot be accessed by third parties. Tax receipts will be
issued by the end of February.


LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1999 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              705 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               December 19, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

(FREEDOM'S MARCH TIMELINE)Freedom's March;
Part eight of a series

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A8

LENGTH: 528 words



June 13: South Africa

South Africa was for decades the international poster child for racial tyranny.
Under Nelson Mandela's heroic leadership it was recast as a triumph for freedom
with implications far beyond its borders. But even as democracy takes root,
South Africans face up to challenges -- AIDS, crime and an uncertain economy --
that go beyond apartheid.

Terence Samuel, reporter

Odell Mitchell, photographer

July 11: Refugees and Recovery

The Albanian Kosovars who fled the fighting in Kosovo soon encountered the more
private trauma common to refugees everywhere as they adjust to a new life. As
St. Louis becomes a leading refugee center, innovative outre ach efforts help
the newcomers realize the potential of their new freedom.

Philip Dine, reporter

J.B. Forbes, photographer

Aug. 1: Guatemala

In Guatemala, a Central American country with a long history of economic,
military and religious ties to the United States, freedom for most people still
means a struggle for the basics of shelter and food. The story of one family's
quest for land, through civil war and displacement, and the heavy price it has
paid for the plot of land that means freedom itself.

Jon Sawyer, reporter

Teak Phillips, photographer

Sept. 5: St. Louis

Ann Marie and Josepheus Reynolds grew up in The Ville, one of the few St. Louis
neighborhoods open to blacks during the Depression. They've seen dramatic
changes in opportunities, as legal discrimination crumbled in the '50s and '60s.
But they've also faced the persistent barriers of racism that keep the American
dream out of reach for many African Americans.

Deirdre Shesgreen, reporter

Laurie Skrivan, photographer

Oct. 24/31: Germany/Eastern Europe

Ten years after the fall of the Berlin Wall east and west Germans are still
struggling with unexpected ambiguities of freedom. Two sisters on opposite sides
of the divide reflect on the economic hardships and psycho logical adjustments
they have faced in the wake of Germany's reunification. Experts from across the
region warn that democracy cannot flourish until more attention is given to the
human legacy of totalitarianism.

Robert L. Koenig, Philip Dine, reporters

Nov. 28: Yemen

Yemen, a long-isolated land on the Arabian Peninsula, is the unlikely venue for
a freedom quest by women. Women in Middle East still endure abuse, imprisonment
and even death in a culture obsessed with protecting their sexuality. But in
Yemen, six years after democracy emerged, women have begun taking their place
alongside men in government and the workplace.

Bill Lambrecht, reporter

Jamie Rector, photographer

Dec. 19: St. Louis

The voices of freedom, close to home: A Chinese student leader jailed after the
Tiananmen Square massacre in 1989, now studying to be a minister in St. Louis
County. A retired teacher in East St. Louis, one of the Little Rock Nine who
made history by desegregating Central High School in 1957. A St. Louis corporate
lawyer who helped prosecute German Nazis at Nuremberg.

Jon Sawyer, reporter

Chris Lee, photographer

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (1) Photo by Odell Mitchell - (Woman washing items in a bucket.)
 (2) Photo by J.B. Forbes - (Two Albanian Kosovar refugees)
 Photo by Teak Phillips - (Young boy sitting in hall.)
 Photo by Jamie Rector - (Two eyes looking through a mask.)

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              706 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

              December 16, 1999, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

YOUNG REFUGEES GET TASTE OF AMERICAN TRADITIONS AT SPECIAL DINNER

BYLINE: Robin Seaton Jefferson; Special To The St. Charles County Post

SECTION: ST. CHARLES COUNTY POST, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 723 words


A special group of kids broke bread with young people at the St. Charles County
Boys and Girls Club in a unique celebration of Thanksgiving.

Teen-age refugees from Kosovo, Bosnia and Africa observed their first
Thanksgiving in the United States with American teen-agers at the club in
Blanchette Park in St. Charles on Nov. 22. About 30 members of the Boys and
Girls Club brought in Thanksgiving dishes, including mashed potatoes and
macaroni and cheese to share with teen-age refugees. The refugees are taking
part in a program to help integrate them into the culture and customs of
America.

In July, the American Red Cross St. Louis Bistate Chapter developed the
International Youth Adventures program in cooperation with the International
Institute and Catholic Charities. The six-week program was designed to help
young refugees adjust to St. Louis.

Each year, Torch and Keystone group members from the Boys and Girls Club, who
are also members of the American Red Cross Youth Corps, meet for a traditional
Thanksgiving dinner. This year, they decided to host a dinner for the teen-age
refugees. Torch and Keystone are youth leadership groups for Boys and Girls Club
members between the ages of 11 and 18. The Youth Corps is made up of teens and
young adults ages 12 to 24 who volunteer with the American Red Cross in the St.
Louis area.

The idea for the international Thanksgiving was born out of a conversation
between Barbara Palmer, Boys and Girls Club aquatics director, and Nick
Farruggia, coordinator of the American Red Cross St. Charles County Service
Center.

Farruggia said Palmer was looking for new activities for the youth at the Boys
and Girls Club, and he was looking for new ways to integrate the teen-agers from
Kosovo into this country.

"We felt it was important to reach out to these teen-agers from Kosovo by
introducing ourselves and our traditions," Palmer said. "I think these kids do a
lot in taking care of their families. They're the ones learning English and
taking Mom to the bank or grocery store. They don't have so much time to be
kids. That's a real important thing."

Palmer said letting kids be kids is one of the Boys and Girls Club's top
priorities. "In any society, kids are pushed too hard to become grown up," she
said. "I can offer these kids (from other countries) the same things I teach
here, the same things that any kid needs. They need a time to forget about the
seriousness of our society. We try really hard to give kids a place to relax and
have a good time and forget about issues."

Vicki Cinotto, American Red Cross Service Center specialist, has spent many
hours with the refugees since they came to America via the International
Institute in St. Louis earlier this year. A government-financed resettlement
agency for refugees, the International Institute helps integrate refugees into
American culture by finding jobs, housing and schooling for them.

"I'm hoping the groups get together and learn about the different cultures and
maybe see the world in a different light," Cinotto said.

She admits that American teens cannot begin to understand the circumstances
their international peers have come from. "I couldn't even imagine what they've
gone through or even how they were put in a different country not speaking the
language. I couldn't relate to any of that. But they just want to be kids, just
want to fit in and be a part of the group and I can help with that."

An African girl who joined in the festivities at the club said she felt safe and
happy in America. The 12-year-old came to St. Louis from Monrovia with her
family about six months ago due to fighting in her country. Her grandparents are
still there.

She said she tries not to think about Africa and what she left behind. Although
she misses family and friends still living there, she has a new life now. She
wants to be a teacher here like her father was in Monrovia. Math is "very hard"
she said, "harder than in Africa" and computers are new to her. She is learning
English and struggling a little with the sciences, but mainly she has learned
something about life, a positive that she will carry with her regardless of her
address.

"In America, people can really do something for you," she said. "I've learned
that some people in the world are very good and some are not."

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo by ROBIN SEATON JEFFERSON - Refugees from Kosovo, Bosnia
and Africa share a Thanksgiving dinner with other children from the Boys and
Girls Club in Blanchette Park.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              707 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                            November 30, 1999, FINAL

Half the world's rivers are drying out or polluted: panel

SECTION: News; E8

LENGTH: 431 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


WASHINGTON -- More than half the world's major rivers are going dry or are
polluted, a panel studying global water problems reported yesterday.

The fouling of the waterways and surrounding river basins contributed to the
total of 25 million environmental refugees last year, for the first time
exceeding the world's 21 million war-related refugees, said the World Commission
on Water for the 21st Century.

The findings are part of a report the commission expects to complete at a
two-day meeting beginning today at The Hague, Netherlands. The panel -- backed
by the World Bank and United Nations agencies on children, development, the
environment and other issues -- has been charged with finding a way to ensure
there is enough water for the world's growing population in the next century.

''We have to pay attention to how the world manages its water,'' said Arienne
Naber, a geologist who is a commission consultant.

''Production has to be increased, quality improved ... to guarantee that we can
meet the water needs of all the people on Earth and protect the environment,''
she said in an interview.

The commission gathered information on the river portion of the study from
specialists around the world and an analysis of existing material.

It concluded that, of the 500 major rivers in the world, the Amazon in South
America and the Congo in sub-Saharan Africa are the healthiest. Both have few
industrial centres near their banks, the report noted.

Others, like the St. Lawrence River, still have some pollution problems, but the
report notes that Canada and the United States are successfully working together
to improve its flow.

By contrast, overuse and misuse of land and water resources in river basins
elsewhere has ''seriously depleted and polluted'' them, the commission said.
That, it said, is ''degrading and poisoning'' the rivers' surrounding
ecosystems, ''threatening the health and livelihoods of people who depend upon
them for irrigation, drinking and industrial water.''

The main reason is lack of co-ordinated management of watersheds, which often
cross national boundaries or several state boundaries.

''All the success stories show that co-operation leads you everywhere,'' Ms.
Naber said. The commission will recommend comprehensive regional planning among
a long list of other remedies aimed at increasing water production while saving
the environment, she said. The final commission report and an action plan are to
be presented for consideration to a world forum of government ministers and
others, in March in The Hague.


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1999 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              708 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                September 28, 1999, Tuesday, THREE STAR EDITION

NATION

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A7

LENGTH: 1048 words



Head of Miss America Pageant is abruptly fired

The head of the Miss America Pageant was abruptly fired from his $
250,000-a-year job following a controversial decision by the pageant board to
drop a longtime ban on contestants who have been married or had abortions.
Robert L. Beck, 60, who took over as CEO of the Miss America Organization last
year, was released from his three-year contract Sunday night, according to David
Frisch, chairman of the pageant's board of directors. Frisch issued a
one-paragraph statement, which didn't say why Beck was fired but did say that a
national search for a replacement was to begin immediately. Pageant spokesman
John Healy would not say whether Beck was fired because of the change in rules,
which has been put on hold pending talks with the states. The Miss America
Organization is the nonprofit charity that operates the famous beauty pageant.

Clinton delays deportation of Liberian refugees

On Monday, President Bill Clinton issued a one-year deferment of deportation for
Liberian refugees who fled their war-torn homeland, saying he felt other
countries would deport Liberians if the United States did. About 15,000
Liberians live in the United States under a temporary protection program, first
granted in 1991, when large numbers of people fled civil war in the African
country. About 4,000 Liberian refugees live in Rhode Island alone. The protected
status, extended six times, was set to expire today. Liberian citizens would
have had to receive a new visa, become permanent U.S. residents or return home.
Clinton said even though conditions in Liberia have improved since the civil war
ended in 1996, the political and economic situation remains fragile.

Tobacco auctions resume in North Carolina

The flue-cured tobacco market opened on Monday, the first time since Hurricane
Floyd began its devastating run through eastern North Carolina. Scores of
farmers and buyers in Wilson packed Growers Warehouse, one of the many venues
where tobacco is auctioned daily from August to November. It closed when the
storm loomed offshore and remained suspended for six days because of flooding
and road closures. Many farmers were forced to switch to backup generators to
keep the fans and drying units running for the tobacco when Floyd struck Sept.
16. State agriculture officials haven't yet assessed losses from damaged tobacco
crops, although ripe and unripe leaf prices were 20 cents or more per pound
higher Monday than they were when the market closed.

Ex-lawyer for Chiquita sues Cincinnati newspaper

A former lawyer for Chiquita sued The Cincinnati Enquirer on Monday, accusing
the newspaper of breaking a promise by identifying him as a source for its
expose of the banana company. George G. Ventura claims former Enquirer reporters
Michael Gallagher and Cameron McWhirter promised him confidentiality - with
management's knowledge - in exchange for inside information about Chiquita
Brands International Inc. Ventura said the reporters violated that promise by
secretly taping conversations with him and later identifying him to Chiquita and
law enforcement authorities. Ventura is seeking unspecified punitive and
compensatory damages. His federal lawsuit accuses the Enquirer and its parent,
the Gannett Co., of breach of contract, fraud and negligence. In May 1998, The
Enquirer published a series of stories suggesting that Cincinnati-based Chiquita
engaged in improper business practices overseas.

Nun told to halt ministry to gays says she will obey

A nun ordered by the Vatican to cease her ministry to gay and lesbian Roman
Catholics says she will obey the order but will work within the church to have
it reversed. Sister Jeannine Gramick said in a statement that she believes it
"more beneficial" to minister to homosexuals with the church's blessing than
without it. Gramick, 57, and the Rev. Robert Nugent, the founders of New Ways
Ministry in Mt. Rainier, Md., were summoned to Rome in July and ordered to stop
their work. The Vatican's Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith said that
Nugent and Gramick "have caused confusion among the Roman Catholic people and
have harmed the community of the church." It called their teachings "erroneous
and dangerous." In late July, Nugent said he would stop ministering to
homosexuals.

Army offers incentives to help attract new recruits

As the U.S. military ends its most difficult recruiting year since the
post-Vietnam 1970s, the Army is offering $ 6,000 - on top of other bonuses and
scholarships - to men and women who join up before Friday The Army is about
6,300 recruits short. The Air Force, too, expects to fall short by about 1,700
of the enlistees needed to maintain current levels. The Navy expects to meet its
needs after a big shortfall last year, but only after accepting more personnel
who failed to finish high school and stepping up recruitment and bonus programs.
Only Marine recruiters, with flashy TV spots on shows featuring extreme sports,
say their hard-line approach has quite successfully maintained "product appeal."
The other services are struggling in a time of increased job opportunities
outside the military, post-baby-boom reductions in military-age populations and
record college enrollment. Shrinking the military services also has resulted in
shrinking interest among young Americans in joining the 1.4 million-member all-v
olunteer forces.

California fire destroys 5-mile swath of homes

George Anstead gazed at the ruins of his uninsured home of 47 years Monday and
wondered if he should have stayed behind and tried to save it from the grass
fire that swept though the area. Anstead and at least 36 other residents of the
semirural Happy Valley area of California lost their homes to the blaze that
pushed through a five-mile swath of modest houses, ranchettes and mobile homes
Sunday. The fire started Sunday morning as three separate blazes and merged into
one, rushing over shallow canyons covered with oaks and brittle grass to scorch
2,000 acres. About 500 to 700 people were ordered to leave their property
Sunday. The fire was contained early Monday, and firefighters spent the day
searching for hot spots just southwest of Redding, 170 miles north of
Sacramento.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS - Markus Curtiss, 7, sits in the
trunk of his family's car Monday after returning to the burned remains of his
home in Happy Valley, Calif. A fire that began Sunday destroyed about 37 homes
and forced evacuation of more than 500 before being contained.

TYPE: Nation Briefs Column

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              709 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                     July 15, 1999, Thursday, Home Edition

'I look at America as No. 1';
 Settling in: A Nigerian family adjusts to life in Lithonia after fleeing human
rights abuses.

BYLINE: Erik Rodriguez, Staff

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: DeKalb Extra; Pg. 3JA

LENGTH: 753 words

For the first time in years, Tambekee Bariyiga is safe.

From his new surroundings near First St. Paul African Methodist Episcopal Church
in Lithonia, Bariyiga and his family can speak freely about the horrors that
forced them to flee Nigeria.

It wasn't always this way. As a member of the Ogoni tribe and a political
activist, Bariyiga spoke out against injustices in his homeland. The
government's violent response forced his exile to Benin in 1996.

Through World Relief, an organization that helps resettle refugees, Bariyiga and
his family came to the United States --- and the open arms of the church parish.

"We brought them from the airport to a house next door to the church and then
furnished the house," said Barbara Lester, a parishioner at First St. Paul AME
Church. "They came here with six people and two bags."

Adjusting to America will be a challenge. But at least his struggle can be
heard.

The story of the Ogoni tribe, Bariyiga says, is one of oil. The black crude was
discovered in Nigeria in 1958. The government allowed companies such as Shell
and Chevron to move onto the land, including the small 440-square mile Ogoni
province in the eastern part of Nigeria, in return for portions of the revenue.
Bariyiga was reared amid oil derricks.

Bariyiga worked as a technician for an engineering company in 1990 when he heard
about a group that had organized to protest the oil companies' presence and to
petition the government for their rights. Bariyiga joined the Movement for the
Support of the Ogoni People, or MOSOP, that year. "Nothing whatsoever was done
(for us)," he said. "No schools, and no good food because the area was decimated
by the oil. Everything was destroyed."

When MOSOP demanded to know what had happened, the military retaliated, Bariyiga
said. "They sent soldiers to Ogoni, raped our women and killed our people. Most
of the MOSOP activists had to go underground."

In response, Bariyiga did the only thing he thought he could do. He ran.

From an office in Clarkston, World Relief, a national organization with a local
staff of 24, helps resettle refugees into metro Atlanta.

World Relief is only one of many similar organizations, including the
International Rescue Committee, Catholic Social Services and others, who help
usher about 3,000 refugees into the metro area every year. World Relief
estimates that recent crises in Kosovo and Africa could push that number higher.

Mike Hoffer, a World Relief resettlement case worker, learned of the Bariyiga
family through UN reports and a coordinated international agency called the
Joint Voluntary Agency.

"The agency would interview people, and they would determine who would be
suitable to be brought over as refugees," said Hoffer.

From the Ogoni region, Bariyiga fled to a refugee camp in neighboring Benin in
March 1996. Nigerian security agents often tried to infiltrate the camps and
kidnap refugees to return them across the border, Bariyiga said.

His wife and children followed a year later. "We were sleeping in these small
tents in the camps, with six people crammed into a tent," Elizabeth Bariyiga
said. "Sometimes we slept with snakes."

The horrors in Benin meant that Bariyiga and his family could never return home
and spelled a dismal future for his kinsmen.

In June, the family was allowed to move to the United States. They settled into
a well-furnished home adjacent to the church.

"I look at America as No. 1," he said. "Right from the first day we came here, I
could see that things here go the other way. The people are progressive, the
people are happy."

In the few weeks they have been here, the family has developed an affinity for
Wal-Mart and the DeKalb Farmer's Market. The children already have library
cards. And on July 4, a parishioner helped them barbecue a goat for the holiday.

Parishoners have come together to help the family adjust, donating clothes,
goods and offering services. They also are responsible for ensuring that the
Bariyigas meet World Relief's guidelines, including obtaining Social Security
numbers, jobs for Tambekee and Elizabeth and education for the children within
three months.

That won't be the problem, said the Rev. Columbus Hartwell, the church's pastor.
"Our challenge is to know when to stop."

Bariyiga won't forget his people's plight, but he recognizes the opportunity
that World Relief has given him and his family.

"I thank God for all of this," Bariyiga said. "I never thought I'd be alive at
this time."

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
New surroundings: Tambekee Bariyiga and his wife Elizabeth stand in front of
their new home. With them (from left) are Keune Dumale, the sister of Tambekee,
and their children Zor, Victor and Barinuadum.  / RENEE HANNANS / Staff

                    Copyright 1999 The Atlanta Constitution


                              710 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 July 11, 1999, Sunday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

OVER THE YEARS, U.S. REFUGEE POLICY HAS BEEN A REFLECTION OF THE WORLD'S;
POLITICS.Freedom's March;
Part 2 of a series;
REFUGEES AND RECOVERY

BYLINE: Philip Dine; Post-Dispatch Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A7

LENGTH: 709 words


Refugees who want to seek freedom in the United States have had to hope that
their quests meshed with American policies.

Though the Albanian Kosovar exodus has drawn rare attention, the United States
has had a policy of admitting refugees for 50 years, starting with displaced
Europeans in the aftermath of World War II.

At its best, says Washington University's Stephen Legomsky, it's based on a
humanitarian goal of relieving suffering and a policy aim of sending the message
that human rights must be respected.

"Refugee policy is a statement that we want to foster freedom around the world,"
says Legomsky, whose textbook on the subject is the most widely used in law
schools nationwide. But defining freedom and choosing among the millions of
worldwide refugees -- especially during the Cold War -- has involved political
judgments about the national interest.

"Refugee policy was very foreign policy-driven," Legomsky says. "It was highly
politicized."

Those who fled communism at great risk were of value in the propaganda war with
the Soviet Union. And so the big flows accepted by the United States were from
Cuba, Indochina and the Soviet Union or its satellites. People escaping
oppression from states friendly to America, such as El Salvador, Guatemala and
Chile, or those from African nations not seen as pivotal in the East-West
struggle, were rarely admitted.

Until 1980, the United States admitted refugees on a crisis-by-crisis basis. The
Refugee Act of that year required the president to set a ceiling each year for
refugees with "a well-founded fear of persecution on account of race, religion,
nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion."

Two communist-related flows beginning around that time -- Vietnamese refugees
and Soviet Jews -- dominated until the mid-1990s. That means most of the
refugees to the United States came from countries producing a tiny portion of
the world's refugees, while scant attention was given to vast areas accounting
for 80 percent, including Africa, South Asia and Latin America.

That's because U.S. officials have favored those persecuted for political
beliefs -- and certain views at that -- as opposed to, for instance, those
fearful because of racial conflict.

Gender was not even mentioned in the 1980 act, although most refugees around the
world are female, with many men killed or fighting in conflicts. The exclusion
of gender has led to confusion over whether the fear of female genital
mutilation justifies refugee status.

After the Soviet collapse, the United States has accepted a more diverse pool of
refugees, but fewer.

The number of nations from which refugees are eligible has expanded. Africa's
allotment, for example, doubled to 12,000 refugees this year upon lobbying by
the Congressional Black Caucus.

"With the end of the Cold War, regional conflicts and ethnic conflicts have
created a whole new regime of refugees," says Mark Franken, director of refugee
services at the United States Catholic Conference, largest of the nine private
agencies that resettle refugees under contract with the State Department.

"Refugee policy was and will forever be a tool of foreign policy, but my view is
in recent years it has placed more emphasis on the humanitarian aspect of
refugees."

Sparked by the Yugoslav wars, Eastern Europe is now the dominant source of
refugees, led by Bosnians. The number of refugees admitted to the United States
has dropped to 78,000 annually, though that will be bumped up 20,000 this year
by Albanian Kosovars. That's fewer than half in some previous years.

The decrease runs counter to a gradual rise in the worldwide number of refugees.
Some worry that America's political and financial will to welcome refugees may
erode without the impetus of a Cold War. But the compelling plight of the
Kosovars may rekindle interest, says Leonard Glickman, who heads the Hebrew
Immigrant Aid Society. Glickman said he and leaders of other national agencies
are discussing how to build on the recent outpouring of support.

"What we want," he said, "is to take that public reaction, which has been so
extraordinarily generous, to the administration and reverse years of declining
refugee admissions."

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              711 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            June 26, 1999, Saturday

RETURNING REFUGEES FACE NIGHTMARE WINTER

BYLINE: Janet Mcevoy In Brussels

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 526 words


The international community has handled the Kosovo refugee crisis so badly that
a humanitarian catastrophe in the Serbian province is almost inevitable as
winter sets in, a health expert warned yesterday.

Prof Debarati Guha-Sapir, director of the Centre for Research on the
Epidemiology of Disasters, forecast food shortages, illness and lawlessness as
refugees return home from Albania and Macedonia.

"I think definitely there's going to be a crisis during the winter months, which
is not that far away at all, since humanitarian needs have not been assessed,"
the Calcutta-born public health expert said.

"I can foresee continued chaos. The chaos from Albania, Macedonia, Montenegro is
going to spread to Kosovo as winter sets in, refugees come back to see their
houses destroyed, weakened physically and mentally, with greater exposure to
disease . . . You are going to have a food crisis."

From the centre, based at the medical faculty of Belgium's Catholic University
of Louvain since 1973, Guha-Sapir often advises the European Union, the world's
largest donor, on aid policy.

She said the world's major donors, notably the EU and United States, were
lacking a humanitarian aid strategy and tended to rush into humanitarian
situations hastily without assessing needs on the ground.

Their haste was often driven more by the need to reassure an increasingly donor
weary public that they are dealing with a situation rather than efficiency, she
said.

"We face today for a variety of reasons a knee-jerk kind of response to the
declaration of a humanitarian crisis, which is dominated by a rapidity of
response, where how much is given is more important than what we are bringing is
relative to the needs of the people."

The international community reacted to the Hurricane Mitch crisis by rushing
food to Central America, only to be informed that it was not food that was
needed, she said.

Equally, the international community had reacted to humanitarian crises in
Chechnya, Bosnia and Kosovo as if it was dealing with a conflict, volcano,
flood, hurricane or earthquake in Africa or Asia.

"They are unable to snap out of this Africa model of relief and this is a
reflection of the fact that the whole humanitarian relief business lacks a
stable and solid policy," she said.

"Kosovo is simply not Southern Sudan."

While African refugee camps were populated by undernourished, unvaccinated,
illiterate people, mainly women and children, with high fertility rates, the
opposite was the case for eastern Europe, she said.

The refugee camps' customers there had no long-term record of under
-nourishment.  They were vaccinated, had benefited from health systems under the
former communist system and were largely literate and able to help run their own
camps.

The international community had reacted badly by sending highly-trained medical
personnel more relevant to infectious diseases like cholera, diptheria and
typhoid found in Africa.

At the same time more everyday chronic diseases like asthma, heart problems,
hypertension and diabetes had not been treated, often for a lack of the right
pills.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bleak outlook: Elderly ethnic Albanians wait to receive help at the
United; Nations High Commission for Refugees distribution centre in Pec.

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


                              712 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                May 26, 1999, Wednesday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

ST. LOUIS MAY GET HUNDREDS OF REFUGEES FROM KOSOVO;
AREA IS MAJOR DESTINATION FOR FAMILIES, WITH FIRST ONES ARRIVING WITHIN DAYS

BYLINE: Philip Dine; Of The Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A1

LENGTH: 799 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


St. Louis will be a major destination for Albanian Kosovar refugees streaming
into the United States.

The lead private resettlement agency at Fort Dix, N.J., which houses about 4,000
refugees, said Tuesday that it had selected St. Louis as one of four host
cities. The first families are expected to arrive in St. Louis within days, and
the eventual number could reach into the hundreds.

The United States has agreed to take in a total of 20,000 ethnic Albanians, who
have fled their homes in the Kosovo region of Yugoslavia because of the threat
of violence from Serb soldiers or paramilitary police. Hundreds are arriving
every few days at Fort Dix.

"We picked several cities for the initial resettlement of refugees - Houston,
Bridgeport (Conn.), Boston and St. Louis," Gabrielle Bushman, spokeswoman for
the Immigration and Refugee Services of America, said in an interview Tuesday.

Those cities were chosen based on several factors, she said, including a stable
job market, affordable housing, the presence of capable resettlement groups and
enough native Albanian speakers to help the newcomers adapt.

St. Louis has roughly 100 native Albanians, most of whom arrived after Albania's
hard-line communist government crumbled seven years ago and the country's
borders opened. St. Louis' largest resettlement agency, the International
Institute of Metropolitan St. Louis, is the local affiliate of the Immigration
and Refugee Services of America.

St. Louis has enough Albanians to offer translation services and other help but
not such a large group as to impede absorption into the larger society, Bushman
said. New York, which wasn't chosen as an initial site, has many thousands of
Albanians and is more expensive, she said.

The U.S. Catholic Conference also disclosed Tuesday that it will begin sending
refugees to St. Louis in the next few days.

The arrival of Albanian Kosovars will buttress St. Louis' standing of recent
years as a key center for refugee resettlement, including thousands of Bosnians,
Vietnamese and Russians, as well as smaller groups from Latin America, Africa,
Eastern Europe and the Middle East. Earlier this decade, the State Department
and major private resettlement agencies quietly made St. Louis a "cluster site"
for refugees, in part because of the lack of public animosity.

Albanian Kosovars began arriving on May 5 at Fort Dix, where they are receiving
medical screening and are being processed by government officials. They are
awaiting assignment to communities around the country by one of the nine private
agencies that oversee refugee resettlement.

After a few departures from Fort Dix the past couple of weeks, the pace is now
increasing, with departures Monday, Tuesday and today.

The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services provides grants to private
agencies, which distribute the money to their local affiliates to help defray
the cost of job training, language and other services provided the newcomers
during a transition period.

The Immigration and Refugee Services of America, based in Washington, will
handle about 2,000 of the refugees. It's already chosen four families consisting
of 23 people to be resettled in St. Louis, with more families to come, Bushman
said.

The International Institute said Tuesday that the arrival of Kosovar refugees in
St. Louis was imminent and that the institute would have an announcement within
a few days.

The largest of the nine private groups helping to settle refugees, the U.S.
Catholic Conference in Washington, plans to place refugees in St. Louis as soon
as this week.

Marie Quinlan, communications director for the conference's Migration and
Refugees Services, said St. Louis is among 55 sites chosen for initial
resettlement.

"We're expecting that we could initially place 30 refugees there, however that
could increase," Quinlan said.

The conference's local affiliate in St. Louis is the Catholic Charities Refugee
Services, which was unavailable for comment Tuesday.

St. Louis' third refugee resettlement agency is the Jewish Family & Children's
Service, an affiliate of the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society in New York. The
national agency said that while no resettlement sites have been selected, the
St. Louis group has expressed interest and will get strong consideration because
of its track record.

Evelyn Young, coordinator of the Jewish resettlement program in St. Louis, said
Tuesday: "Our board here has met, and it's been OK'd in principle to resettle
Kosovar refugees when we're asked by our national agency. The Jewish community
is certainly very sensitive to this particular group of refugees because it's so
reminiscent of the Holocaust, people thrown out of their homes and the genocide
that's happening because of who they are."

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              713 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             May 22, 1999 Saturday

WORLDWIDE DISPLACEMENT OF PEOPLE

BYLINE: REUT

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS; CONFLICT IN THE BALKANS; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 212 words


The Kosovo crisis has created a large influx of refugees adding to some 30
million refugees and displaced people around the world.

A United Nations and European Community conference is opening in Brussels on
Thursday to discuss the refugee crisis and Europe's agenda for the 21st century.

PEOPLE OF CONCERN TO UNHCR
    Top 20 Countries (millions of people)

    AFRICA

Rwanda                           0.89
 Sierra Leone                     0.88
 Burundi                          0.67
 Tanzania                         0.56
 Guinea                           0.41
 Sudan                            0.39
 Liberia                          0.35
 D.R. of Congo                    0.32

ASIA

Iran                             1.93
 Pakistan                         1.20
 Azerbaijan                       0.80
 Sri Lanka                        0.72
 Afghanistan                      0.54
 Armenia                          0.31

EUROPE

Bosnia Herz.                     1.19
 Russian Fed.                     1.17
 Germany                          0.98
 Yugoslavia                       0.84

N. AMERICA

U.S.A                            1.05

S. AMERICA

Columbia                         0.9*

Source: UNHCR, Forum Europe  All figures are for 1998 year-end
-* non-UNHCR (UN High Commission for Refugees) figure

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration Map

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1999 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              714 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  May 7, 1999, Friday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

ETHNIC ALBANIAN REFUGEES WILL RELOCATE ACROSS THE U.S.

BYLINE: Deb Riechmann; The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A13

LENGTH: 625 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


From Kosovo to Kansas. Tented camps in Macedonia to high-rises in Manhattan. Up
to 20,000 ethnic Albanians expelled from Serbia are coming to the United States
- and to the Americans getting ready to take them in.

In Gardner, Kan., Kurt Hoffman, who gets teary-eyed when he sees the refugees'
plight on television, is straightening up his finished basement to house a
family from Kosovo.

With her youngest son away at college, Rita Huebner and her husband have two
empty bedrooms at their small house in Sherwood, Ohio. "I thought if they would
only come to America, I could help them," says Huebner. Over the years they have
been host for 14 foreign exchange students. "I asked my husband and he said, 'No
problem.'"

New York restaurant owner Dine Rraci doesn't know when - or even if - his
65-year-old mother and six other relatives from Kosovo will come to America, but
he's got apartments and jobs waiting.

"My mother doesn't want to leave at all," Rraci said, adding that his other
relatives are eager to get out of the refugee camps but probably would return to
Kosovo if peace was restored.

After weeks of trying to reach his relatives in refugee camps, Rraci finally
spoke on the phone with his mother. "Are you Momma?" he asked, quizzing her
about family details. Then he ended the call when relatives told him how
Yugoslav forces raped and stabbed a woman he knew.

"I had to hang up the phone. I can't take it. I don't want to hear these
things," Rraci said.

On Wednesday, 453 refugees arrived at Fort Dix, N.J. Another was born Thursday,
a boy, the first child for Lebibe Karaliju, 21, and her husband, Naim Karaliju,
28. The father is thinking of naming the baby "America."

An additional 400 are expected today and 800 more are scheduled to arrive early
next week. On Saturday, 100 to 200 refugees, who are being sponsored by
relatives in the United States, are scheduled to land in New York.

The U.S. government is giving the ethnic Albanians from Kosovo refugee status,
which allows them to work and gain access to some social services. They can stay
in America and eventually apply for U.S. citizenship, or return to Kosovo.

"They're coming rather quickly from trauma to resettlement," says Richard
Parkins, who is with Episcopal Migration Ministries, one of 10 U.S. refugee
resettlement agencies helping the people from Kosovo. "I think we're going to
get people who are very distraught - in a state of shock."

The refugees will be placed with relatives, host families, or in houses and
apartments arranged by the agencies.

Some will live in Albanian communities in New York, New Jersey and
Connecticut."This can be temporary, or it could be permanent," says Ron Lambert,
46, of Des Moines, Iowa, who has volunteered in the past to help refugees from
Southeast Asia, Africa and Bosnia.

"Paper or plastic?"

Some refugees eventually go home. Others like life in Des Moines and stay,
Lambert said, recalling how he helped two Bosnian teens get their first jobs
bagging groceries. He says one of the first English phrases they learned was:
"Paper or plastic?"

Anna Crosslin, director of the International Institute in St. Louis, said it was
her understanding that the refugees initially would be placed only with U.S.
relatives and not with volunteer hosts. After that, she said, the traditional
route of resettling refugees in small mutual-support clusters would be followed,
as was done for Bosnian Muslim refugees in cities such as St. Louis where no
Bosnian community previously existed.

Crosslin said it would be two to three weeks before the Institute would be
notifified if any refugees might come to St. Louis.

St. Louis has a small Albanian community of up to 500 families.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Photo by AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE - Endonita Hajzeraj, 4, kisses her
baby doll as she walks at the refugee camp Thursday at Fort Dix, N.J. Kosovar
refugees relaxed after their 13-hour flight from Macedonia on Wednesday.

                  Copyright 1999 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              715 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           November 10, 1998 Tuesday

Top UN official assails Canada's refugee policy  Humanitarian tradition losing
out to economics

BYLINE: PAUL KNOX The Globe and Mail

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 712 words


Self-interest is winning out over humanitarian tradition when Canada selects
refugees for resettlement from abroad, the top refugee official for the United
Nations says.

Sadako Ogata says Canada is giving less weight to refugees' need for protection
and more to how much they are likely to cost taxpayers once they arrive in
Canada.

Mrs. Ogata, now in her eighth year as UN High Commissioner for Refugees, said
Canada is becoming reluctant to accept refugees from overseas camps unless they
meet traditional immigration criteria such as education, skills or ability to
speak English or French.

"Those who really need resettlement because of persecution should be given much
greater consideration," she said. "I think that's a legitimate request."

Mrs. Ogata made her comments after spending two days in Ottawa discussing
Canada's support for her office, whose mandate is to deal with more than 20
million refugees and displaced people around the world.

A federal government official rejected Mrs. Ogata's claim, saying that Ottawa is
actually doing more to help refugees who have slim prospects of quick
integration.

"We are helping more of the people who have greater settlement problems than we
have in the past," said Gerry Van Kessel, director-general of the Immigration
Department's refugees branch.

The UNHCR seeks to help refugees return to their country of origin or settle
where they have fled. But, every year, thousands are resettled in third
countries such as Canada, the United States, Australia or Scandinavian nations.

A total of 7,710 were resettled in Canada under federal government sponsorship
last year after fleeing wars or persecution. The 1998 target for this category
is 7,300.

Thousands more apply for refugee status after getting to Canada on their own.
Over the past three years, refugees from the former Yugoslavia, Sri Lanka, Iran,
Iraq and Afghanistan accounted for the greatest share of all refugees arriving
in Canada.

Mr. Van Kessel confirmed that Canada considers the ability of potential refugees
to find jobs and integrate into Canadian society when considering who to accept
from overseas camps.

To choose candidates solely on the basis of need would increase the cost to
Canadian taxpayers, he said, because they would need more government support.
"If we stop looking at resettlement criteria and it costs more, we'll end up
taking fewer refugees."

He said a Canadian program under which single mothers and women at risk of
persecution are accepted has taken 231 women so far this year against fewer than
200 last year.

Ms. Ogata, 71, became high commissioner in 1991 and will serve until the end of
2000.

She took office as an unprecedented wave of refugee crises was swamping the
world. Ethnic wars in the former Yugoslavia displaced about four million people,
adding to huge refugee populations in central Asia, Africa and Latin America.

At the same time, the governments that support her office were cutting back
foreign-aid budgets. She has made deep staff cuts at the agency but acknowledged
that there is still work to do in tightening up management procedures.

A draft audit leaked to the London-based Financial Times newspaper last summer
harshly criticized the UNHCR for failing to impose adequate controls on money
paid to other agencies working with refugees. The agency hotly denied the
allegations and Ms. Ogata was reconfirmed as high commissioner in September.

UNHCR was criticized for failing to push Western nations harder to intervene in
the former Yugoslavia or accept refugees fleeing ethnic cleansing. Ms. Ogata
acknowledged that in some cases the agency actually appeared to be sanctioning
ethnic cleansing by helping refugees flee it.

Millions were given so-called "temporary protection" by Germany and other
European countries, which were theoretically obliged to grant them permanent
asylum. Ms. Ogata said it was impossible for UNHCR to screen all victims to see
whether they qualified as refugees.

A Japanese-born former international-relations professor, Ms. Ogata laughed when
asked why she wants to continue in the job. "I'm stuck," she said, then
explained that "women usually start working rather late [in life], after you're
freer and more independent from household duties. . . . I think I can handle
another year or two."

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1998 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              716 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              Journal of Commerce

                           November 5, 1998, Thursday

Clinton closing door on refugees

BYLINE: BY BRONWYN LANCE

SECTION: EDITORIAL/OPINION; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 885 words


President Clinton seems to enjoy his global reputation as a humanitarian.
Indeed, his intentions are probably genuine, and his attempts to bring peace to
the Middle East and to end the troubles in Northern Ireland are laudable
actions. However, while he has actively pursued a high-profile-handshake
altruism, Mr. Clinton has neglected lower-profile humanitarianism in his own
backyard by reducing the number of refugees into the United States to the lowest
figure in a decade. In a recent memo, the president set the number of refugees
admitted to America at a ceiling of 78,000 for 1999, down from 83, 000 in 1998.
Overall refugee admissions have plummeted from a Bush- administration high of
142,000 in 1992 to 70,000 in 1997. This is a 58 percent drop in refugee
admissions to the United States during the Clinton presidency. Remember, these
are refugees who have already proven that if they return to their home countries
they will be persecuted or killed because of their religion, race, national
origin, membership in a social group or political opinion. Yet not once on
President Clinton's watch has the overall ceiling for refugee admissions been
met, despite such horrors as the Rwandan genocide. Refugee admissions are based
on allocation by global region. The Clinton administration deserves much praise
for raising the previously paltry number of 7,000 refugees allowed to enter
America from the entire continent of Africa to 12,000 for next year. However,
this will be an empty gesture with no way to fill those numbers until Mr.
Clinton decides to improve the Byzantine way in which refugees are processed in
Africa. Simultaneously, the administration reduced the number of European and
former Soviet refugees to be given shelter in the United States by 3,000. This
odd move comes at a time when Bosnia is still a mess, 270,000 persons have fled
ethnic violence in Kosovo, and several former Soviet republics teeter on the
brink of civil war. If the situation is bad enough for Mr. Clinton to be
considering air strikes in Kosovo, now is not the time to shut the door on
refugees. It seems that an idea has taken root in Foggy Bottom that since the
Cold War has ended, there are no more refugees. However, human misery and fear
are felt equally, whether the oppressors are communists, fascists, or religious
fundamentalists.  The Clinton administration reduced the number of refugees
allowed from East Asia by 5,000 due to the winding down of the Vietnamese
program. However, last year saw 20,000 Burmese and 70,000 Cambodians fleeing to
Thailand. Many of these souls will never be able to return to their homelands
because they subscribed to American ideals of democracy, free speech and free
press to try to bring change to their own repressive governments. As large
caseloads, such as the Vietnamese, have begun to dwindle, the State Department
has seen no reason to use those numbers to allow shelter for other groups of
persecuted peoples. There has been a general unwillingness to help groups that
may be widely-scattered or may have fled to countries that are more difficult to
reach. Yet times have changed. The Cold War is a memory, and the administration
would do well to show creativity and look at opportunities to make a new
foreign-policy statement by offering the shelter of the United States to the
enemies of our enemies. It would speak volumes to those who denounce America and
decry our policies if we welcomed discrete and deserving groups such as
pro-democracy Burmese, religiously-persecuted Bahaists from Iran, anti-Saddam
Hussein Iraqis, and even Algerian journalists and small groups of Afghani women
now living in Pakistan. How many refugees can we afford to take? Ironically,
while our motive in accepting refugees may be generous, receptivity also serves
the national interest. Other nations look to us to be the leader on human rights
and global matters, as well as in protecting those fleeing persecution. As
America was founded by those fleeing religious, political and other forms of
oppression, we have a moral commitment as a nation to continue in that
tradition. No one is suggesting that the United States bear all the burden. In
fact, "regional burden sharing' has become an international catch-phrase. Over
half the countries in Africa either host or produce refugees, with many doing
both at the same time.  However, the stress of such an obligation can send
countries with low incomes and struggling political systems reeling into chaos.
It is, sadly, Mr.  Clinton's own presidency that has overseen one of the
sharpest reductions in America's acceptance of refugees in our history. Earlier
this year, the president said, ""I believe immigrants are good for America.
..They are renewing our values. And they are reminding all of us what it truly
means to be an American.'' However, in a classic flip-flop, President Clinton's
recently disbanded, anti-immigration immigration commission struck a tone far
from Franklin Roosevelt's recollection that ""We are all immigrants and
revolutionists,'' or John F. Kennedy's unabashed Melting Pot populism. America
is a nation of character that should abide by its moral commitment to help those
fleeing oppression. If Mr. Clinton is truly a humanitarian, he will rethink U.S.
refugee-admission policy.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graphic - Caricature: (Lurie's World) President Bill Clinton;

                    Copyright 1998 Journal of Commerce, Inc.


                              717 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                           October 27, 1998, Tuesday,

Most refugees white, European, while others are widely excluded;
 A recent article didn't quite get the racial mix right

SECTION: EDITORIAL, Pg. 9A, MAINE VOICES

LENGTH: 690 words


I read with interest the article in the Oct. 10 Press Herald regarding
complaints of neglect of refugees recently arrived in Portland. I am a Maine
native who just returned to Portland in September from Boston, where I practiced
immigration law.

I feel compelled to make two comments in response to your article. First, your
writer's statement that the United States admits annually "80,000 refugees, most
of them from war-ravaged countries in Africa or eastern Europe," is misleading.

Annual refugee admissions have little to do with war and other humanitarian
emergencies, and more to do with foreign policy concerns.

MOREOVER, there is no disguising the fact that U.S. refugee admissions are
shamefully race-based and have historically excluded legitimate refugees from
African nations, while favoring whites.

The institutionalized racism can be easily discerned from the fact that during
the last several decades, the African nations of Algeria, Angola, Burundi, Chad,
Ethiopia, Eritrea, Liberia, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Democratic
Republic of Congo (Zaire) and Zimbabwe, to name just a few, have experienced
wars, turning literally millions of persons into refugees.

Yet historically, the number of refugees allowed in annually from the entire
African continent has been less than 10,000.

In fact, for fiscal years 1993-1998, African refugee annual admissions were
capped at 7,000 persons, while in the same period, annual admissions from Europe
and the former Soviet Union ranged from 45,000 to 64,000, the vast majority
being from the former Soviet Union.

The lack of any correlation to war, and the foreign policy aspects of refugee
admissions, are further exemplified in INS statistics regarding refugee
admissions from the Latin American/Caribbean region.

During the 1980s while U.S.-funded civil wars raged in El Salvador and
Guatemala, nearly the entire annual refugee quota of approximately 3,000 was
filled by Cubans, whose country which was not at war, but whose government this
nation opposed.

IT DOES NOT enhance the debate around refugee issues in Portland to perpetuate a
myth that because war exists in Somalia or in any other African country, the
U.S. government will permit Africans to comprise "most" of the refugee pool.

In fact, in fiscal 1999, of the 78,000 refugees to be admitted, only 12,000 will
come from Africa, (a significant increase from the norm, actually), while 48,000
will come from Europe, with 40,000 of those slated to arrive from Bosnia.

Second, I would like to underscore the difficulties of resettling refugees in an
area with a tight rental market. In Boston, resettlement agencies' case workers
are constantly under tremendous stress, and often work nearly around the clock
trying to locate housing for arriving refugees.

What rental units they are able to find, at a rent which can actually be
afforded on the meager federal refugee resettlement welfare allotment (which
will last only for a maximum of eight months) are often places in which most of
us would despair of living.

Imagine, for example, trying to find a de-leaded apartment with at least two
bedrooms for a refugee family of seven, for under $ 500 per month.  In Boston,
this is nearly impossible. From what I have seen, after having recently
completed my own search for a place to live in Portland, the situation would not
be much better here.

I HAVE NO knowledge of the events complained of in your article, but I hope that
the complainants and any other interested parties will take into account that
refugee resettlement agencies are given only a limited amount of funding from
the federal government with which to resettle refugees, and that amount does not
vary in response to changes in the local housing market or other local factors.

Unfortunately, refugee resettlement agencies can influence neither whom the
United States chooses to admit as refugees, nor the amount of funding which is
granted to assist refugees in adjusting to their new country.

I hope those who evaluate the situation complained of in your article will
consider these realities.


LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  --- Special to the Press Herald Beth Stickney is a former directing
attorney of the Legal Department at the International Institute of Boston. She
now teaches an immigration law seminar at the University of Maine School of Law.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC;

Art by Geoffrey Moss

                Copyright 1998 Guy Gannett Communications, Inc.


                              718 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            October 1, 1998 Thursday

CLINTON LOWERS REFUGEE PERMITS

SECTION: MAIN; NATION BRIEFING; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 63 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Clinton lowered the number of refugees to be allowed legal entry into
the United States, granting more entries to refugees from Africa but fewer to
those from Europe, Latin America and the Caribbean. In a memo Wednesday to
Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, Clinton authorized entry of up to 78,000
refugees during fiscal 1999, down from 83,000 the year before.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              719 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 1, 1998 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IN OTHER ACTION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 195 words

* President Clinton lowered the number of refugees to be allowed legal entry
into the United States, granting more entries to refugees from Africa but fewer
to those from Europe, Latin America and the Caribbean. In a memo Wednesday to
Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, Clinton authorized entry of up to 78,000
refugees during fiscal 1999, down from 83,000 the year before. That restored the
number to its fiscal 1997 level, the lowest figure in a decade. Admissions are
based on country-by-country allocations made each year by the State Department.

* Congress has approved legislation that would allow colleges to notify parents
when students younger than 21 commit an alcohol or drug violation, a measure
sparked by a string of five alcohol-related deaths on Virginia campuses last
fall. The bill needs only President Clinton's signature to become law; he said
he is likely to sign the measure.

* Americans opened fewer than 55,000 tax-free medical-savings accounts during
the first year and a half they have been available -- not even coming close to a
750,000-account cap lawmakers put on the experimental alternative to traditional
health insurance.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Albright
[981001 FR 9A]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              720 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                October 1, 1998, Thursday, 3 Early Tampa Edition

Boats work to clean up mysterious oil spill

SOURCE: Compiled from Times Wires

SECTION: NATIONAL; IN BRIEF; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 587 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO; WASHINGTON; ATLANTA; MANASSAS, Va.



Dead and dying birds were found coated with oil in coastal waters Wednesday  as
skimmer boats worked to contain a 2,300-gallon spill.

"I expect the number of dead birds to keep going up," said Dana Michaels,
spokeswoman for the California Department of Fish and Game. "It's just this
nasty, crusty gunk, big globs. And the sheen spreads over the surface of the
area for miles."

Twenty-six dead birds were collected and 30 oil-covered birds were found  alive
by Wednesday, two days after the thick, heavy oil was spotted 10 miles  from San
Francisco.

Skimmer boats were sucking up what oil they could, and samples of the oil  were
sent to Federal Oil Pollution Clean-Up Fund laboratories for comparison  with
oil taken from ships that had recently traveled through the waters.

Clinton cuts number of slots for legal refugees

   WASHINGTON - President Clinton on Wednesday lowered the number of refugees
to be allowed legal entry into the United States, granting more entries to
refugees from Africa but fewer to those from Europe, Latin America and the
Caribbean.

In a memo to Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, Clinton authorized  entry of
up to 78,000 refugees during fiscal 1999, down from 83,000 the year  before.
That restored the number to its fiscal 1997 level, the lowest figure  in a
decade.

Under the new authorization, 48,000 refugees would be allowed in from  Europe,
9,000 from East Asia, 12,000 from Africa, 3,000 from Latin America and  the
Caribbean and 4,000 from Near East/South Asia. An additional 2,000 slots  were
not allocated.

Americans' eating habits improve, study shows

  ATLANTA - A study says Americans are eating almost 20 percent more  vegetables
than they did a quarter-century ago, but many of the veggies aren't  green or
leafy - they're deep-fried.

Twenty-five percent of the vegetables consumed by Americans are french  fries,
according to Dr. Susan M. Krebs-Smith, author of a study in today's  edition of
the journal Cancer.

The study said Americans have improved their diets since the early 1970s  but
need to eat even better to help reduce their cancer risk.

Krebs-Smith, a research nutritionist with the National Cancer Institute,  said
the explosion of fast-food joints makes potatoes - especially in the form  of
french fries - the vegetable people eat most. Half of all servings of
vegetables Americans eat are potatoes, and half of those are french fries.

Family plans to remove man's feeding tube

   MANASSAS, Va. - Virginia's top health official made a last-minute appeal
Wednesday night to the family of a comatose man not to remove the feeding tube
that has kept him alive for 3 1/2 years.

The grieving family of Hugh Finn planned to remove the tube after a court
appeals deadline expired at midnight Wednesday.

But state Secretary of Health and Human Resources Claude Allen tried to
persuade the family to change its mind, even as state attorneys pondered ways
to keep the tube in place without the family's blessing.

Hugh Finn, a former Louisville, Ky., television news anchor, was injured in  a
traffic accident in March 1995.

His wife's decision in June to remove the feeding tube divided the family  and
led to a court battle over guardianship.

A judge ruled Aug. 31 that Michele Finn would remain as her husband's  guardian
and had the right to remove the tube. The family dropped plans to  appeal,
leaving her free to remove the feeding tube.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


                              721 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 October 1, 1998, Thursday, THREE STAR EDITION

NATION

BYLINE: From News Services

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. A6, NATION BRIEFS COLUMN

LENGTH: 1241 words



Oil spill drifts south along California coast

A 2,300-gallon oil spill that had threatened one of the largest West Coast
breeding sites for marine life outside Alaska was moving south along the coast
Wednesday. The Coast Guard resumed the cleanup effort after about 200 gallons of
the oil slick had been sucked up Tuesday at the site 10 miles off San Francisco,
said Dana Michaels, a spokeswoman for the California Department of Fish and
Game. The spill, reported Monday by a passing ship, was initially between San
Francisco and the Farallon Islands, a collection of barren rocks 27 miles off
the coast that are home to thousands of birds and sea lions. But by Wednesday,
the oil had drifted about 20 miles south, off the coast of Half Moon Bay. The
spill occurred at the end of the breeding season when hundreds of thousands of
birds gather in large flocks to teach newborns how to feed themselves.

Federal worker linked to radicals enters guilty plea

A U.S. Fish and Wildlife officer who provided paramilitary training to Islamic
radicals linked to the World Trade Center bombing and other terrorist plots has
pleaded guilty to federal charges. Kelvin E. Smith, 43, entered a conditional
guilty plea Tuesday in Scranton, Pa., to lying to the FBI and hiding evidence by
dumping semiautomatic rifles in the Delaware River. The guns have never been
found. Defense attorney Joshua Lock said Smith entered the plea on the condition
that he could appeal a judge's ruling that prevented Smith from arguing that he
lied out of fear of retribution from the terrorists. The judge said Smith could
have gotten fellow enforcement officers to protect him and his family. Under
federal guidelines, Smith probably faces less than two years in prison at
sentencing Jan. 18. FBI investigators were led to Smith's farm while tracing the
movements of more than a half-dozen would-be terrorists who trained at the farm
and its firing range in 1993.

President lowers number of entry slots for refugees

President Bill Clinton lowered the number of refugees to be allowed legal entry
into the United States, granting more entries to refugees from Africa but fewer
to those from Europe, Latin America and the Caribbean. In a memo Wednesday to
Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, Clinton authorized entry of up to 78,000
refugees during the fiscal year that begins today, down from 83,000 the year
before. That restored the number to the level of the fiscal year that ended
Sept. 30, 1997 - the lowest figure in a decade. Admissions are based on
country-by-country allocations made each year by the State Department.
Applicants must prove a "well-founded fear of persecution based on race,
religion, membership in a particular social group or political opinion" to be
admitted. This year, Clinton reduced the entry levels for European refugees by
3,000 and for Latin American refugees by 1,000. His order allowed 5,000 more
entries from Africa.

Jeb Bush leads Florida gubernatorial race, poll says

Republican candidate Jeb Bush maintains a comfortable lead over his Democratic
opponent in the Florida gubernatorial race, according to a poll published
Wednesday. Bush, the son of former President George Bush, led Democratic Lt.
Gov. Buddy MacKay by 52 percent to 37 percent in the latest poll by Mason-Dixon
Political/Media Research Inc. The general election is Nov. 3. The margin was
almost identical to Bush's 51 percent to 35 percent lead over MacKay in a late
August Mason-Dixon poll. Eleven percent of the respondents were undecided. The
telephone poll of 815 registered voters was conducted Sept. 22-24 and had an
error margin of 3.5 percentage points. The same survey showed Sen. Bob Graham
also maintaining his firm lead over Republican challenger Charlie Crist, a
former state senator from St. Petersburg. Graham, a former Democratic governor
seeking his third Senate term, was favored by 59 percent of the respondents,
versus 30 percent for Crist. Eleven percent were undecided.

Clinton earmarks money for bombing suspects' trial

President Bill Clinton set aside nearly $ 8 million Wednesday to support the
establishment of a court in the Netherlands to try two Libyan suspects in the
1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103. Clinton directed Secretary of State Madeleine
Albright to transfer $ 7.9 million under the authority of the Foreign Assistance
Act. Libya has accepted a proposal from the United States and Britain to try the
suspects in the Netherlands by Scottish judges under Scottish law but is arguing
about specifics. Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi wants details of the proceedings
and the treatment the suspects would receive once they are in Dutch custody, as
well as assurances that the suspects will have the right of appeal. Britain and
the United States have rejected the Libyan demands for guarantees before the
suspects are turned over.

2 teen-agers plead guilty in Michigan sex scandal

Two more young men accused of having sex with underage girls in a scandal in the
wealthy Detroit suburb of Grosse Pointe Woods pleaded guilty to lesser charges
Wednesday. Daniel Raymond, 19, and his cousin, James Raymond, 19, pleaded guilty
to contributing to the delinquency of a minor. Three 14-year-old girls told
authorities that the Raymonds and two other teen-agers gave them alcohol and had
sex with them last winter. All four young men were charged with statutory rape,
punishable by 15 years in prison. The girls came forward after the Grosse Pointe
North High School yearbook was published with a picture of 18-year-old Daniel
Granger apparently exposing himself. Granger, the Class of 1998 president,
pleaded guilty two weeks ago to the same charge. He and the Raymonds could get
up to six months in jail. The fourth defendant, Daniel Cooper, 18, will accept
the same deal next week, his lawyer said.

11 charged after mob threatens mixed-race couple

Eleven members of a mob in York, Neb., that marched with baseball bats to the
home of a mixed-race couple were charged Wednesday with disorderly conduct.
Prosecutors filed criminal mischief charges against three others. Shouting
racial slurs, about 30 young white men with bats and carrying a Confederate flag
broke car windows and attacked the home of a white woman and a black man on
Sept. 17. Police dispersed the mob. Police said the attack took place after the
woman said that a man who had been a guest had stolen money from the home. Jason
Negley, 18, was charged with taking $ 60 to $ 80 in cash and video games.

U.S. assails Cuba's treatment of four dissidents

The State Department sharply criticized Cuba's decision to charge four of the
country's best-known dissidents with sedition. According to attorneys in Havana,
the government is seeking a a six-year prison sentence for Vladimiro Roca and
five-year terms for Rene Gomez Manzano, Felix Bonne and Marta Beatriz Roque.
They were arrested in July 1997 and were formally charged Thursday. State
Department spokesman James Foley said Wednesday the only crime of the four "was
to speak the truth about the repression of freedom in Cuba, to criticize the
government's failed economic policies and to call for peaceful, democratic
change." Foley said the four have been held in cells with common criminals and
have been denied adequate medical care. The four criticized the Communist Party
for not presenting solutions to the country's severe economic problems.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              722 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                    September 4, 1998, Friday, METRO EDITION

Canada seeking border harmony Axworthy presses for North American co-operation

BYLINE: By Allan Thompson TORONTO STAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 463 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


   OTTAWA - Canada, the United States and Mexico are discussing greater
integration on border controls and other cross-border issues, Foreign Affairs
Minister Lloyd Axworthy says.

"Sometimes the best way to deal with the elephant is to get them to share the
same cage," he told reporters this week.

Axworthy said he raised the subject of greater North American co-operation with
U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright when she visited Ottawa in March.

She agreed to discuss a variety of border issues and how to address them with "a
North American view," he said.

Axworthy said a summit on the subject with Albright and Mexican Foreign Minister
Rosario Green was to have been held last month in Santa Fe, N.M., but was
postponed because of the U.S. embassy bombings in Africa.

"One of the things that has not been developed as much as it should have been is
this notion of working within the North American framework . . . to see what we
have in common that requires it," he said.

"There's a whole series of things just happening across this border and how do
we deal with it?

"We can either ad-hoc it, deal with each one as a conflict and a resolution, or
we can try to put a new framework around it that recognizes that this
integration is taking place and . . . try to manage it and plan for it as
opposed to simply respond to it."

Axworthy said Americans' attempts to tighten their border controls are just a
symptom of the problems caused by the lack of a North American approach.

"If you simply build up your fence between Canada and the United States, you're
also going to keep out a lot of other things that you want to have happen, so
why don't we look at this in a North American context?"

Asked if that would require a fundamental overhaul of Canada's immigration and
refugee laws, Axworthy said changes are being considered.

Changes to immigration and refugee policy "should be looked at in concert, as
opposed to simply in a unilateral way," he added.

Canada's immigration department has been trying for years to negotiate an
asylum-sharing agreement with the U.S., but those negotiations fell by the
wayside earlier this year. Such a harmonization of refugee policy would allow
Canada to deny entry to migrants who come here by way of the U.S., where they
could have filed a refugee claim.

Axworthy said the kind of harmonization he is talking about goes beyond refugee
and border policy.

"My argument there is we should be doing this in a North American context,
addressing the terrorist problem, the crime problem or the drug problem, but not
with a series of isolated regulations of our own," he said.

"This is a North American problem. We'd better sort of work together and find
some cohesion on this thing."

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lloyd Axworthy

                  Copyright 1998 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              723 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                     August 25, 1998, Tuesday, ALL EDITIONS

Refugees here back U.S. action

BYLINE: Elizabeth Kurylo

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 04A; Pg. 04A

LENGTH: 538 words


The U.S. missile strike on a pharmaceutical factory in Sudan was appropriate and
should be followed by more U.S. attacks on terrorist training camps in the East
African country, a group of local Sudanese refugees said Monday.

"One strike is not enough," said Khalifa Abdelraham, 49, a Sudanese refugee who
lives in Decatur. "There are plenty of terrorist camps in Sudan where they train
all those Islamic fundamentalists. America should continue with air strikes."

An estimated 200 Sudanese refugees live quietly in metro Atlanta, primarily in
Clarkston, Decatur and other parts of DeKalb County.  On Monday, 10 of them met
in Clarkston to discuss their reaction to last week's U.S. military action in
Sudan, where a plant believed to be making components for chemical weapons was
hit, and in Afghanistan. They gathered at the headquarters of World Relief, a
nonprofit agency that helps refugees start new lives in America.

The men are Christians from southern Sudan who fled their homeland because of
religious and political persecution. Many still have family members in Sudan,
where a 15-year civil war and famine have killed more than 1.5 million people.
Sudan's government is run by Muslims who took power in a 1989 coup and sought to
convert the country to Islam.

Before fleeing to the United States, several members of the group fought
alongside rebels trying to overthrow the current government. All spent years in
African refugee camps waiting for the chance to come to America. And that was
after they had walked for days, sometimes nearly a month, across Sudan to a
neighboring country such as Kenya or Ethiopia for refuge.

Luka Hol, 31, escaped Sudan in 1984 when he was in high school. He said students
were forced to learn the Koran and study the Islamic way of life. When they went
on strike to protest, the government sent in police, then soldiers, who started
shooting students. "We had to run away," he said.

He and 100 students walked for 30 days to Sudan's border with Ethiopia, he said.
Only 50 students survived the trek. He has lived in metro Atlanta for 3 years.
His mother, three sisters and two brothers still live in Sudan.

"We are not happy with the government in Sudan," he said. "They are training
people to become terrorists."

He is upset that most Americans don't know what is going on in his home country.
He and the rest of the group urged the United States to support Sudanese rebels
who are trying to overthrow the current government.

"This is a war against Christians," Hol said. "When Sudan became Islamic, the
military government did not want us to practice our beliefs. They started
teaching us Arabic instead of English. They closed schools if you didn't want to
learn their religion. They brought in female circumcision, which we think is a
complete violation of human rights. They brought in Islamic law, which says that
if you steal, they will cut your hand off."

Peter Woko, 44, who was a member of parliament before the 1989 coup, said
pressure from the U.S. government and the American people can change Sudan's
oppressive government.

"The bombing . . . was very, very useful. We need more of this. We would really
like for the Americans to help us."

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Metro Final Today's News

GRAPHIC: Photo :
 At World Relief headquarters in Clarkston, Johnson Goljok (right) and
 other local Sudanese say the U.S. should act even more forcefully
 against terrorists. / BEN GRAY / Staff

                    Copyright 1998 The Atlanta Constitution


                              724 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             June 16, 1998 Tuesday

LACK OF MONEY TO CLOSE U'S REFUGEE STUDIES CENTER

BYLINE: FROM STAFF REPORTS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 272 words


The University of Minnesota's Refugee Studies Center has run out of money and
will close at the end of June.

The center, which was created in response to the large influx of Southeast Asian
immigrants to Minnesota, has failed to develop a strong research program that
generates the money to continue, said Michael Metcalf, who oversees the center
as director of the Institute of International Studies and Programs.

"We (the institute) took it on as an at-risk project with the understanding that
it would seek outside funding; the center has been unsuccessful in doing that,"
he said.

In the meantime, university officials are trying to find another place to house
the center's research collection on refugees.

Immigrant advocacy groups have mounted a letter-writing campaign to try to save
the center.

"When I first heard it was closing, I was shocked," said Hean Her, executive
director of the Council on Asian-Pacific Minnesotans. "The center over the years
has worked to build a relationship with the refugee community, and it has given
voice to the needs of the community."

Since its beginning in 1980, the center has grown to encompass the study of
refugees from Africa, Central America, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and other
refugees from Asia.

"In the mind of the Hmong, this is the only place in the state of Minnesota
where they can come and find materials to trace their history and culture," said
Masami Suga, a program associate at the center. "It is especially significant
for Hmong people who came here very young, or who were born here, and may not
know much about their history in Laos."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              725 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                           December 29, 1997, Monday,

ETHNIC GROUPS STRESS SOCIAL TIES;
 AMERICANS' INDIVIDUALISM IS AT ODDS WITH SUCH COMMUNITY-ORIENTED CULTURES AS
CAMBODIAN, BOSNIAN AND SOMALIAN.

BYLINE: Steven G. Vegh Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT, Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 556 words


When a Cambodian refugee like Tong SaVaun wants to open a store or buy a car, he
doesn't call local banks or credit unions. He calls a tightknit circle of family
and friends, and they collect among themselves the needed sum.

The practice has a practical side; most Cambodians don't have the credit history
or collateral required for a bank loan. But the larger reason is that
Cambodians, like many immigrant groups, think and act as a community far more
than is common among Americans.

''This is what make the Cambodian community. We have family and beyond that we
build up friendship. We look out for each other,'' said SaVaun, a leader in the
Maine Khmer Council.

There are at least two dozen nationalities represented among foreign-born
immigrants in Maine. Many came as refugees, resettled here by the Refugee
Resettlement Program of Catholic Charities Maine during the past 20 years.

Like other immigrants throughout America's history, the newcomers have sought
out their fellow countrymen because of shared language, history and cultural
tastes.

But the Cambodians, Bosnians and Somalians are among nationalities whose
cultures are also community-oriented by nature. These cultures emphasize
membership in the ethnic group as the way their people identify and think of
themselves.

The contrast between other cultures and American individualism is striking, even
for Doris Hohman, who immigrated from Germany. She has worked in refugee relief
in Africa and is now executive director of the Refugee Resettlement Program.

''My observation coming here as an immigrant is that I don't think there are
many places where there is as little community'' as in America, she said. ''This
emphasis on the individual over the community, that is unique.''

But because they are in the land of rugged individualism, it is groups like
Portland's Cambodian community whose communal attitude seems unique. Among
Cambodians, community is composed of the family and friends with whom trust runs
so deep that the link is as close as a blood relationship.

''This is 'mitphak,' the special kind of friend,'' SaVaun said. ''If you get
older and pass away, your family will be taken care of by this person. It's not
a contract; it's based on trust.''

Ljubica Forkapic, a teacher's aide at Portland High School, said that in her
homeland of Bosnia, community was a cultural norm expressed in regular visiting
and gathering with friends.

''I used to have friends living next door to our apartment, and I'd have coffee
with them every day, talk for an hour, and then go see another family,'' said
Forkapic, who lived with her family in Sarajevo. In the countryside, rural
families welcomed each other to share meals spontaneously.

Forkapic said this face-to-face socializing is, for her, the most important
aspect of what makes life enjoyable. When she and her family came to Portland
three years ago, Forkapic was shocked to see American's didn't devote much time
to gathering regularly with friends.

''Americans spend their life in automobiles by themselves. We aren't going to do
that. That's not a life,'' said Forkapic, who gets together often with others in
Portland's 150-member Bosnian community. To talk, eat and spend time with people
''is the most important thing for me and the people I represent,'' she said.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: b[w]

Staff photo by Doug Jones Ljubica Forkapic, a teacher's aide a;

 Portland High School, says that in her native Bosnia she would spend hours each
day with friends. Such interaction, she says, ''is the most important thing for
me.''

                Copyright 1997 Guy Gannett Communications, Inc.


                              726 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      June 13, 1997, Friday, Final Edition

Rwanda Replies

SECTION: OP-ED; Pg. A28; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 442 words


The government of Rwanda has been accused of having sent troops to the eastern
parts of the Democratic Republic of Congo to kill innocent Hutu refugees.

The government of Rwanda would like to state the following:

(1) Since 1994 more than 3 million Rwandese refugees, both "old" and "new" have
been repatriated. More than 1.4 million of these have come home in the past six
months alone. The internal population of Rwanda is now estimated to be 8
million.

The government and people of Rwanda are struggling with the tasks of national
reconciliation, justice, resettlement, social and economic development, peace
and stability inside the country as well as in the Great Lakes region.

(2) The international community, having spent more than $ 3 billion in
maintaining camps in which perpetrators of genocide trained and armed refugees,
has done little or nothing to help Rwandese returnees resettle.

(3) It is time to establish the whole truth, not parts of it, of what has
happened in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of Congo since 1994.
Only this would stand a chance of being impartial and credible. Therefore, any
such investigation should have a broad mandate to include the following:

* The consequences of the French "Operation Torquoise" in 1994.

* The role of nongovernmental organizations, international agencies (including
the United Nations), human rights organizations and governments (mainly in
Africa, Europe and America).

* The massacres that took place in the eastern areas of the Democratic Republic
of Congo, involving mainly the people of Masisi and the Banyamulenge.

* The role of the perpetrators of the 1994 genocide in Rwanda.

* The recent reports of massacres in the refugee camps.

(4) The above investigation should not be a pretext for the international
community to run away from the responsibility to bring to justice those who were
responsible for genocide in Rwanda. The exceedingly poor performance of the
International Tribunal for Rwanda is a stain on the conscience of the
international community.

(5) Those who are agitating for linking assistance to Rwanda to its admission of
guilt had rather revise their facts. The track record of the government of
Rwanda since 1994 is clear, and there is significant reason to be proud of it.

The government of Rwanda challenges this constituency to make public their
balance sheet of performance. Above all, the government of Rwanda owes its
existence to the people of Rwanda, and as such the talk of pressuring the
country into submission is misplaced.

THEOGENE N. RUDASINGWA

Ambassador

Embassy of Rwanda

Washington

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


                              727 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              Journal of Commerce

                            May 28, 1997, Wednesday

US miserly refugee policy

BYLINE: BY PHILIP PETERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL/OPINION; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 741 words


The issue of American global leadership usually arises in discussions of war,
finance or trade. But it is also an important factor in issues that involve
neither high politics nor high finance, but still affect millions of lives.
Refugee policy is a case in point.

The world produces far more refugees than any single country is willing to
accept. The key to securing humane treatment for the maximum number of refugees
often lies in international community. In the 1970s, the United States'
acceptance of Indochinese refugees provided such a demonstration to the
international community, and helped save the lives of thousands of boat people
who would have succumbed to pirates or other hazards at sea.

Without American leadership - which brought the eventual resettlement of more
than 1.2 million Indochinese in the United States - countries such as Australia
and New Zealand may not have accepted boat people for resettlement, and
countries such as Malaysia and the Philippines might not have established camps
that provided temporary safe haven.

Today's global refugee situation is more severe and more diffuse than during the
last years of the Cold War. More people are being driven from their homes, and
they are fleeing for reasons that are no longer principally tied to communism or
East-West conflict.

Even without the Cold War foreign policy context, refugee flows remain a
pressing international concern. They are both a symptom of instability and a
potential cause of further instability. That, apart from the humanitarian motive
or the economic benefits refugees bring, is the root of America's practical
interest in leading shared international efforts to care for and resettle
refugees.

The Clinton administration has steadily reduced the annual ceiling for refugee
admissions. Its proposed ceiling of 78,000 admissions for 1998, the same level
as 1997, marks the end of five consecutive years of decline. It represents a 39
percent cut from the 1990-1995 average ceiling of 127,000.

Administration officials contend that the cuts are appropriate in light of the
winding down of Vietnam War-related refugee admissions, and reductions in the
number of applicants from the former Soviet Union who seek admission on the
basis of religious persecution.

But current global conditions call more than ever for American leadership on
refugees - leadership that is undermined by the administration's cuts.

The Clinton administration's reduced ceilings may allow enough room for groups
that have long been of interest to the United States - Iraqi Kurds, Indochinese,
victims of religious persecution in the former Soviet Union. But they will
reduce overall U.S. admissions, and they will likely impede America's ability to
enlist greater international cooperation in other crises.  Two examples:

* Africa. Nearly 1 million refugees and displaced persons are in Central
Africa's Great Lakes region alone. Some Rwandan refugees have been able to
return home, but the former Zaire's civil war is causing new refugee flows. The
region's political instability and extensive ethnic violence block the
possibility of return for many refugees. Nonetheless, the administration has set
a ceiling of 7,000 refugee admissions for all of Africa in both 1997 and 1998.

* Bosnia. More than 1 million refugees from the former Yugoslavia are scattered
across Europe, over 300,000 of these in Germany. However, German state
governments have begun to return small numbers of Bosnians against their will,
and have recently sent deportation notices to 60,000 Bosnians.

In January, the Clinton administration announced that the United States would
admit up to 18,000 Bosnian refugees for resettlement in 1997. More than 32,000
have already resettled here since 1992. This is a positive step, but America's
ability to do more for those who have little hope of a safe return home - mixed
marriage families, Bosnians from towns ""cleansed'' by Serbs, victims of
violence - is limited by the low refugee ceiling.

Refugee policy involves a combination of moral, humanitarian and foreign policy
interests, and refugees have accounted in part for the benefits that legal
immigration has brought to the American economy. In the upcoming consultations
on 1998 refugee policy, Congress will have an opportunity to question whether
those interests are best served by the Clinton administration's proposed low
level of refugee admissions.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1997 Journal of Commerce, Inc.


                              728 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                March 19, 1997, Wednesday, CONSTITUTION EDITION

INTERNATIONAL ATLANTA;
World experts meet at Emory to discuss Zaire

BYLINE: J. Randal Ashley

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 08A

LENGTH: 421 words


The 31-year president has life-threatening cancer, the prime minister was
apparently ousted Tuesday, there's no constitutional line of succession,
refugees are starving in jungles, and "rebel forces" backed by several
neighboring states have captured one-third of a nation that would be rich if not
for political corruption.

This describes Zaire, a huge country in the center of Africa. American forces
might have to intervene this week - even if only to rescue other Americans from
the growing chaos.

Three of the world's leading experts on Zaire, the genocidal wars in Rwanda and
Burundi, and the plight of thousands of refugees will discuss these issues
tonight at Emory University's White Hall at 7 p.m.

Ambassador Richard Bogosian has been the point man for the State Department in
the region. Soren Jessen-Peterson is in charge for the U.N. High Commissioner
for Refugees. Marge Tsitouris leads efforts by the CARE Emergency Group, one of
the main providers of humanitarian aid in the region.

Elections in China

Bob Pastor was jetlagged but exhilarated Tuesday after observing elections -
yes, elections - in China. A seven-member team organized by the Carter Center
returned Sunday after monitoring village elections in Fujian and Hebei
provinces. Pastor, who has done a lot of such work previously in Latin America,
was invited by China to bring the international Carter Center team to observe
and comment on the voting in a few of the local elections that affect 900
million Chinese villagers. The delegation found that the voting was not a ploy
by the Communist Party, but an election with "the basic norms of a democratic
process - secret ballot, direct election, multiple candidates, transparent
count, 3- year fixed terms" of office. Incumbents are regularly voted out,
Pastor said, and 40 percent of the village chairmen are not Communist Party
members. The delegation offered 14 suggestions on ways to improve the process.

- ELSEWHERE

Russian President Boris Yeltsin's former representative to his nation's federal
assembly, Alexander Yakovlev, is a visiting professor at Emory Law School this
spring.

- COMING UP

Francois Bujon de L'Estang, the French ambassador to the United States, is
visiting Atlanta today through Saturday . . . Irish Prime Minister John Bruton
speaks to a luncheon meeting of the Irish Trade Board today at the Ritz Carlton
in Buckhead . . . Dr. Stephen Nzita, a candidate for president in Zaire, has a
reception tonight at the downtown Ritz Carlton.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1997 The Atlanta Constitution


                              729 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                     January 28, 1997 Tuesday Final Edition

Cross-Country

SOURCE: Canadian Press

SECTION: CANADA & WORLD; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 691 words


BRITISH COLUMBIA

NEW WESTMINSTER, B.C.: KIDNAPPER RECEIVES 10-YEAR SENTENCE

A woman who grabbed an eight-year-old boy while he was walking to school and
held him for ransom was sentenced yesterday to 10 years in prison.

Francis McLay, 44, of Delta, B.C., held Jordan Barnes for 30 hours at a Surrey,
B.C., hotel in June 1995 before police freed him.

McLay had demanded a $150,000 ransom from the boy's parents.

Her lawyer said she wanted the money to buy her freedom from an abusive husband.

Jordan, who attended the sentencing in B.C. Supreme Court, said he's glad it's
all over.

MANITOBA

WINNIPEG: EXILED IRAQIS COMING TO CANADA

The biggest stream of refugees into Manitoba this year will be exiled Iraqis
currently living in a wretched Saudi camp, says a Winnipeg refugee placement
agency.

About 12,000 Iraqis have been languishing for years in the Rafgaa refugee camp
since fleeing duty in Saddam Hussein's army, said Tom Denton, executive director
of the International Centre.

The United Nations has made them a top priority, he said.

"It's a terrible camp. They are Iraqis who cannot go back to Saddam Hussein's
Iraq because they would be killed."

Citizenship and Immigration Canada has advised the International Centre to
expect 490 government-assisted refugees this year -- 215 from the Middle East,
165 from Europe, 100 from Africa, and 10 from Latin America.

In 1996, the International Centre settled 366 Europeans, all from the former
Yugoslavia, 61 refugees from the Middle East, 48 Africans and 11 Latin
Americans.

Resettlement is the UN's last resort, and among the 10 countries which will
settle refugees, only Canada, the U.S. and Australia take significant numbers,
Denton said.

QUEBEC

MONTREAL: POLICE ADMIT BREACH OF ETHICS

Four Montreal police officers found guilty of assaulting a cabbie who died of
his injuries pleaded no contest yesterday to charges they broke the police code
of ethics.

Quebec's police-ethics committee said Louis Samson, Andre Lapointe, Pierre
Bergeron and Michel Vadeboncoeur used greater force than was necessary during
the arrest and detention of taxi driver Richard Barnabe on Dec. 14, 1993.

They also violated their code of ethics with an abusive search and by ignoring
Barnabe's condition when they took the injured man to police cells rather than
to hospital.

Barnabe died last May after spending 29 months in a vegetative state. He never
recovered from the coma he fell into during his detention.

The ethics committee is studying a recommendation that the officers be suspended
between 150 and 200 days without pay.

The four were convicted in June 1995 of assault causing bodily harm and are
appealing the verdict.

They were given relatively light sentences that were widely criticized. Two were
given 90 days in prison, another drew a 60-day term and the fourth was to
perform 180 hours of community work.

NEW BRUNSWICK

BAS CARAQUET, N.B.: MAN RECOVERING AFTER ARM TORN OFF

A man whose arm was torn off by a snowblower was recovering hospital yesterday.

Eric Paulin, 18, was in critical condition after emergency surgery Sunday.

Paulin had been working with a tractor equipped with a snowblower when his
jacket got caught in the machinery. His arm was ripped off at the shoulder.

NOVA SCOTIA

HALIFAX: EXTRADITION HEARING COSTS AT LEAST $200,000

Canadian taxpayers have spent at least $200,000 so far on an extradition hearing
which they don't legally have to pay for, in a high seas murder case they can't
prosecute.

Closing arguments are to be heard this week in a case against officers of the
container ship Maersk Dubai. The hearings began in September.

Six Taiwanese officers are accused of forcing three Romanian stowaways overboard
last spring before the ship arrived in Halifax.

A Nova Scotia Supreme Court judge is deciding whether there is enough evidence
for a trial, and the federal government will decide whether the accused men will
be tried in Romania.

Under international treaties, Canada can force Romania to foot the bill. But a
top official with the federal Justice Department says Canada won't likely make
the demand.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News

                    Copyright 1997 Metroland Media Group Ltd


                              730 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            December 27, 1996 Friday

Zairian mission decided without first-hand facts  ANALYSIS / Canada shouldn't
have to depend on other countries' intelligence services when considering
sending military on foreign operations.

BYLINE: BY JEFF SALLOT Parliamentary Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 1161 words

DATELINE: Ottawa


WHEN Prime Minister Jean Chrétien launched his rescue mission for Rwandan
refugees on Nov. 12, he did so without the benefit of reliable Canadian
intelligence about the numbers and conditions of refugees in eastern Zaire.

He committed Canada to a military expedition to Central Africa -- a venture the
government estimated might cost as much as $100-million -- before a single
Canadian military officer or intelligence operative could conduct a
reconnaissance patrol to assess the refugee situation on the ground.

Ultimately, the operation was called off before it really began because more
than half-a-million refugees in eastern Zaire managed to walk back to Rwanda
without the assistance of an outside military force.

Operation Assurance, as it is code named, is winding down. It wraps up
officially at the end of this month with the return to Canada of the last of the
air crews and transport planes sent to Africa and staging areas in Britain and
Crete in mid-November.

At its peak in late last month, the operation involved more than 430 Canadian
Forces personnel deployed to eight countries. Most of them never got within 400
kilometres of a refugee.

Unlike Britain, the United States and many of the other allied countries that
later agreed to join the mission -- and privately questioned the need for it --
Canada does not have a foreign intelligence service.

A discreet foreign intelligence-gathering agency, able to send assessment teams
into the field in eastern Zaire early last month, might have provided Mr.
Chrétien with reliable first-hand information about:
   The numbers of refugees and their location;
   Their state of health;
   Their supplies of food and fresh water;
   The physical terrain on which the Canadian-led military force might need to
operate;
   The position and relative strength of Tutsi rebels and Zairian army units and
their proximity to the refugees;
   The refugees' intentions.

Instead, what was available to Mr. Chrétien on Nov. 12 were the estimates from
international aid agencies about the conditions in the refugee camps. But aid
workers had abandoned those camps more than a week earlier because of fighting
between Tutsi rebels and the Zairian army.

Mr. Chrétien also was relying heavily on the political reports of Raymond
Chrétien, his nephew and the ambassador to Washington, who was serving as the
United Nations special envoy to Central Africa to deal with the plight of the
refugees.

Raymond Chrétien had been in the region only seven days. Most of his time was
spent shuttling back and forth between African capitals for meetings with
leaders. It was valuable political intelligence, but it was not first-hand
information about conditions on the ground.

The Prime Minister also had available estimates of the numbers of refugees and
their position based on U.S. spy-satellite monitoring. Aid agencies said the
U.S. estimates were far too low. Some of the agencies suggested the United
States was minimizing the numbers because Washington was anything but
enthusiastic about sending troops to Central Africa to protect refugees. Ottawa
did not have its own aerial-surveillance capability until a week later, when
Canadian military aircraft first arrived in the region. In any event, the
satellite sensors and aerial photos could not pick up intelligence about the
state of health of the refugees -- something an intelligence-assessment team on
the ground could have provided.

In other circumstances, Canadian diplomats might have gone into the field to
look around. But the embassy in Kigali, the Rwandan capital, is a small post and
its diplomats were busy providing logistical support for Raymond Chrétien.

The first Canadian intelligence gathering on the ground in eastern Zaire did not
take place until Nov. 28, two weeks after the Prime Minister's announcement of
the mission and almost a week after hundreds of thousands of refugees already
had crossed the border back into Rwanda. That's when Lieutenant-General Maurice
Baril, commander of the Canadian force, first travelled to eastern Zaire for a
five-hour reconnaissance trip and a meeting with rebel leaders whose soldiers
controlled the area.

It took days of negotiations with Rwandan authorities and the rebels to arrange
even that escorted trip. He saw only what the rebels and their backers in the
Rwandan government wanted him to see.

The first Canadian troops on the ground in Africa arrived in Kigali -- a
three-hour drive from the Zairian border -- after refugees started their return.
The small Kigali detachment -- never more than 40 -- was supposed to be the eyes
and ears for Gen. Baril's headquarters in Entebbe, Uganda, on the far northern
shore of Lake Victoria.

But the Kigali forward detachment was not in a position to provide much
intelligence. The detachment did not have a short-wave radio to monitor the
on-the-spot reports being broadcast by British, French and German reporters in
the field. Much of the information that this detachment received about the
conditions of refugees came the next day in faxes from Ottawa of newspaper
reports from journalists travelling outside Kigali and into eastern Zaire.

The Rwandan government believed an outside military intervention force was
unnecessary. Thus the Canadian soldiers in Kigali were treated as unwelcome
guests and were forced to keep a low profile. They spent almost all their time
in their quarters. It was almost a form of house arrest. The Rwandan government
and the Canadian embassy spent days trying to negotiate a status-of-forces
agreement to cover the soldiers and provide freedom of movement, but they did
not succeed.

Foreign intelligence services do not worry about such things. But Canada has no
foreign intelligence service and, according to Foreign Affairs Minister Lloyd
Axworthy, it does not need one because more than enough information is available
from open sources.

Another country with a foreign intelligence service, and facing the same
situation as Canada in early November, might have sent a team into the field in
Africa without thinking twice. (Diplomatic sources in Rwanda suggest that the
United States did just that, but that the intelligence was not fully shared with
other countries.)

A discreet team in civilian clothes simply might have disappeared into the bush
for a couple of days to avoid roadblocks and military checkpoints and to make
direct contact with refugees. With portable satellite phones they could have
reported back directly to government decision makers half a world away with
real-time intelligence gathered on the spot.

An intelligence service of one's own -- even a small one dispatched abroad for
specific covert assignments -- would enable one to test the credibility of the
claims made by other countries or aid agencies as to the numbers, state of
health and food supplies of refugees.

Decision makers should not depend on secondhand sources when they're considering
sending the Canadian military on foreign missions.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1996 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              731 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      Courier Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                            December 2, 1996, Monday

ZAIRE REBELS TO CO-OPERATE WITH RELIEF OPERATION

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: TOMLINSON C

LENGTH: 565 words


KEYWORD-HIT

Zaire rebels to

co-operate with

relief operation

By CHRIS TOMLINSON in Goma ZAIREAN rebel leader Laurent Kabila said

yesterday an international relief effort for Rwandan refugees is now

unnecessary and the people roaming eastern Zaire are mostly Zaireans

displaced by fighting.

Kabila said he would nevertheless co-operate with the Canadian-led

military mission to central Africa, approved

by 14 countries at a meeting in Ottawa on Friday.

Kabila said most of the Rwandan refugees who fled to eastern Zaire

in 1994 had gone home, and the people spotted by foreign reconnaissance

planes in the region

were actually Zaireans trying to escape warfare.

Western officials said at least 100,000 Rwandan refugees remained

in the mountains of eastern Zaire.

The Rwandan refugees, mostly Hutus, had lived in United Nations aid

camps in eastern Zaire until five weeks ago: when they vanished into

the countryside to escape clashes between the rebels and Zair

ean

soldiers. The refugees had fled Rwanda 2 1/2 years ago, fearing

retribution for the Hutu-led massacre of at least 500,000 Tutsis.

At Friday's meeting in Ottawa,

the 14 countries agreed to participate in an aid operation, a

scaled-down version of the multinational force proposed last month

before hundreds of thousands of refugees began leaving Zaire on their

own.

Diplomats agreed to establish a military headquarters in the

Ugandan capital of Entebbe

to run reconnaissance missions and possibly air

drops.

About 260 troops each from the United States and Canada are already

in Entebbe sharing makeshift headquarters in the airport terminal.

Military transport aircraft that could be used for airdrops are also in

Entebbe, about an hour's flying time from eastern Zaire.

On Saturday, a Canadian military cargo plane from Entebbe

carried cholera medicine to a refugee camp on Tanzania's border

with Zaire. The medicine would help prevent an outbreak among the

refugees, said Tom Kaptyn of Doctors Without Borders, who asked for the

airlift to Kigoma,

Tanzania.

""I'm more than just a little pleased," Dr Kaptyn said as his

cargo

was taken off the Hercules.

In all, about 20 countries, including the US, Britain, France,

South Africa, Spain, Senegal and Japan, were expected

to provide support to the force, Canadian officials said.

Britain and France have not said what their role in the mission

will be.

Spain plans to send three transport planes and between 30 and 40

people to help distribute food; and has offered 400 troops if needed.

Kabila is concerned that multi

national forces in eastern Zaire could be used to impede his

efforts to topple the government of President Mobutu Sese Seko, which

he says is corrupt and decadent.

""All this kind of intervention is purely politically motivated. We

think the problem of refugees is over in this area," said Kabila, who

met on Thursday with Canadian Lieutenant-General Maurice Baril, head of

the inter

national

mission.

Still, he said, the rebels ""have agreed to co-operate."

Rwanda, too, has repeatedly questioned the need for the force,

saying that the number of refugees in need in eastern Zaire has been

vastly overstated.

Associated Press

FACE of starvation . . . a young Rwandan boy holds his malnourished

brother. They are two of 20,000 refugees now at Goma after a month on

the road.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1996 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              732 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                            December 2, 1996, Monday

Rebels say aid not needed

LENGTH: 248 words


THE Zairean rebel leader says an international relief effort for Rwandan
refugees is unnecessary and those roaming eastern Zaire are mostly Zaireans
displaced by fighting.

Laurent Kabila said yesterday he would nonetheless cooperate with the
Canadian-led military mission to central Africa, approved by 14 countries on
Saturday.

Kabila said most of the Rwandan refugees who fled to eastern Zaire in 1994 had
gone home and that the people spotted by foreign reconnaissance planes in the
region were actually Zaireans trying to escape fighting.

Western officials say at least 100,000 Rwandan refugees remain in the mountains
of eastern Zaire.

The Rwandan refugees, mostly Hutus, had lived in United Nations aid camps in
eastern Zaire until five weeks ago, when they vanished into the countryside to
escape clashes between the rebels and Zairean soldiers.

The refugees had fled Rwanda 21/2 years ago, fearing retribution for the
Hutu-led massacre of at least 500,000 people, comprising mainly Tutsis and their
sympathisers.

The 14 countries agreed in Ottawa to participate in an aid operation, a
scaled-down version of the multi-national force proposed last month before
hundreds of thousands of refugees began leaving Zaire.

Diplomats agreed to establish a military headquarters in the Ugandan capital
Entebbe to run reconnaissance missions and possibly airdrops of food and
medicine.

About 260 troops, each from the United States and Canada, are already in
Entebbe.

AP

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: MER

                   Copyright 1996 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              733 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 29, 1996

Canada puts final touches to aid mission for Zaire refugees

BYLINE: From Randall Palmer;

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 611 words


Ottawa, Thursday

THE international humanitarian mission to central Africa will be approved
tomorrow at a meeting in Ottawa, Canada announced today.

"We have now achieved an agreement," said Canadian Foreign Minister Lloyd
Axworthy, adding that more than 20 nations had offered support for a mission.
Ambassadors from those countries will meet in Ottawa as a steering board to give
final confirmation.

The agreement is to establish a multi-national headquarters in Uganda, pursue
further reconnaissance, and put in place the capability to carry out air drops
of food into eastern Zaire if needed. The project is aimed at bringing food to
Rwandan Hutu refugees still in eastern Zaire.

There were an estimated 1.2 million refugees before fighting between the rebels,
Zairean troops, and Hutu extremists forced them from their camps.  Earlier this
month up to 600,000 went home to Tutsi-dominated Rwanda, which the refugees fled
in 1994 fearing reprisals for the genocide of up to one million Tutsis and
moderate Hutus.

The Canadian-led international coalition appeared determined to go ahead with
its plans despite opposition from the Zairean information minister to food drops
and scepticism from relief workers that this was the route to go.

Asked if the co-operation of neighbouring Rwanda was required for convoys,
Axworthy said: "That would be one of the questions. I'm hoping . . . from what
we've seen today that the Rwandan government is showing more co-operation."

He said Rwanda had agreed to allow the force commander, Canadian Lieutenant
-General Maurice Baril, to scout around eastern Zaire today and had agreed to
allow relief agencies to investigate what was needed there for 10 days.

Baril, who toured the western shore of Lake Kivu with Zairean rebels today,
reported that 40,000 Rwandan refugees were heading north along the lake towards
home.

He added that at least 100,000 other refugees were still in the mountains.

"(Some refugees) don't seem to be able to break away and come on down," Baril
said. "There are still vulnerable groups out there and we must find them."

Philipo Grandi, spokesman for the UN High Commissioner for Refugees in Goma,
said: "Humanitarian agencies are being given more access, but the problem is
that many refugees are still unreachable."

The UN Security Council authorised an international force on November 15, but no
mission has yet begun, partly because of confusion about the need after the
return of around 600,000 refugees to Rwanda, and partly because the Rwandan
Government has refused to allow the force to operate from its territory.

The United States, France, Belgium, South Africa, Malawi, Senegal, Denmark, and
Japan were among those that had offered support, Axworthy said - for example
with planes, reconnaissance, and staff for the headquarters.

Axworthy said Canada had devoted 600 troops to the mission, just under 300 of
whom are in the region, along with three Hercules transport planes that can be
used for food drops.

A figure for the total force was not available but Senegal was contributing a
battalion of 800, Canadian defence officials said. France was sending two
aircraft and 50 personnel and the United States was helping to set up the
headquarters at Entebbe in Uganda and would assist in planning airdrops.

However the United States has expressed reservations about the Canadian plan for
air drops of relief supplies to the Rwandan refugees in Zaire who have not yet
made it to the border. Americans fear the supplies would not reach malnourished
refugees, but would be taken instead by Hutu militants.  -Reuter/AP.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.


                              734 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 28, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

U.S. Near Approval of Mission To Aid Central Africa Refugees

Peter Baker, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A44

LENGTH: 649 words


The United States inched closer to a humanitarian mission to rescue ill and
hungry refugees in central Africa yesterday, endorsing a Canadian plan to
establish a multinational headquarters in the region and putting troops on alert
for possible airdrops of food and medicine into Zaire.

The operation envisioned by the Canadians would base operations out of Entebbe,
Uganda, and involve far fewer soldiers than originally projected just two weeks
ago. The Clinton administration said the 400 U.S. support troops already moved
to the region may be enough to handle the task, although an additional 200 could
be needed. In any case, officials stressed they are not planning to send U.S.
combat forces.

A statement by the White House supported the proposal to locate a headquarters
in the region. However, it added that more planning must be done over the next
few days before a final decision can be made on airdrops. "It's not a done deal,
but it is a statement of our intention," one high-ranking official said.

U.S. officials want to be assured cargo planes will not be fired upon by hostile
rebels on the ground and that supplies will be used for relief of refugees
rather than hijacked by armed militias. Also in the past, airdrops have injured
or killed some of the innocents they were intended to help by dropping pallets
on them and by creating out-of-control stampedes for the packages.

The United States and Canada do not want their efforts to halt the flow of
refugees returning from Zaire to Rwanda by creating a disincentive to go home,
as some United Nations officials fear.

"We are fundamentally committed to helping the refugees, but we want to do so in
a way that's effective," State Department spokesman Nicholas Burns said.

National security adviser Anthony Lake conceded yesterday that many problems
have to be worked out. "I hope they all have solutions," he said. "We just don't
know the solutions yet."

Lake also said he hopes African nations will participate in the mission, but the
reaction to the plan was cool in Rwanda, which objects to deploying an
international force within its borders.

One appeal of operating out of Entebbe is that Western allies could circumvent
any Rwandan objections while avoiding areas of Zaire not under government
control. Another advantage, officials said, is that the international force
could respond quickly to any change in the situation.

The nature of the problem and, therefore the solution, has changed drastically
since President Clinton announced earlier this month that he was willing to send
up to 5,000 members of the armed forces to the region, with 1,000 ground troops
in Zaire.

With the return home of about 600,000 mostly Rwandan Hutu refugees in recent
days, officials are debating how extensive the remaining problem is and how best
to complete the exodus from Zaire.

Although Rwanda insists the crisis has subsided, some estimates place several
hundred thousand refugees remaining in eastern Zaire.

Africa was not the only national security issue on Clinton's plate as he
returned to Washington yesterday from a 12-day Asian-Pacific vacation and trade
mission. Shortly after landing at the White House in the morning, he was hard at
work trying to assemble a new foreign policy team for his second term.

Chief of Staff-designate Erskine Bowles met him with a two-inch-thick binder of
transition recommendations covering possible Cabinet selections and potential
reactions to those choices by Congress and constituency groups.

Clinton then met with Bowles for three hours, joined at times by telephone by
Vice President Gore and outgoing Chief of Staff Leon E. Panetta.

Clinton and his family left last night for a Thanksgiving weekend at Camp David,
where he will review his briefing book and prepare for possible announcements
next week of new secretaries of state and defense.


LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, carol guzy, Rwandan refugees in Zaire wait for trucks to
transport them to border. A young boy runs to the head of the line.  Long Exodus
A woman and child wait with other Rawandan refugees at Sake, Zaire, for trucks
to transport them from the border back to their home region at Goma. U.S.
officials backed a Canadian plan to establish a multinational headquarters in
the region and put troops on alert for possible airdrops of food.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              735 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

              November 23, 1996, Saturday, SATURDAY SECOND EDITION

Baril briefs leaders on east Zaire Weekend meeting to decide mission of
multi-national military force

BYLINE: By Bill Schiller Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 651 words

DATELINE: STUTTGART, Germany


   STUTTGART, Germany - Canada's Lt.-Gen. Maurice Baril arrived here yesterday
from Central Africa, armed with the first western eyewitness account of more
than 100,000 Hutu refugees still on the run in eastern Zaire.

He met behind closed doors, with military representatives from 25 countries, to
press his case for speedy deployment of a multi-national force.

Having sized up the problem in a four-day mission, Baril told reporters
yesterday he hopes to have "a full slate of options" available for participating
countries to assess by the end of the weekend.

The man who will lead any multi-national force sent said military planners and
humanitarian aid groups first must agree on the scale of the task.

That could take the whole weekend, he said.

Estimates of refugees still on the move inside eastern Zaire range from 200,000
to 500,000.

"We have to determine how many refugees there are and where they are," said
Baril, who flew in from Entebbe, Uganda, at 3 a.m. yesterday.

"We're about to commit some pretty heavy resources to help those refugees," he
told a press conference. "Planning depends critically on getting a clear picture
of the situation on the ground.

"Before any country is going to commit their sons and daughters to go in . . .
they've got to be guaranteed that's it's a mission that's possible."

But, as time passed yesterday, some countries were having second thoughts,
either reducing original offers of support, like the United States or
threatening to drop out, like Ethiopia.

Out of eastern Zaire came a promise from Tutsi rebel leader Laurent Desire
Kabile that if western countries even consider a troop deployment there, they
would do it over the dead bodies of his fighters.

The rebels control a swathe of eastern Zaire and believe any humanitarian force
sent in would be aimed at retaking territory lost by the Zairean army.

Rwanda, too, has expressed disquiet over western deployment, saying the refugee
crisis is over.

But Baril said yesterday he had personal assurances from Rwandan Vice-President
Paul Kagame that a western humanitarian mission would be able to stage any
relief effort from Rwandan soil.

The general said he flew in a military craft at an altitude of about "1,000
feet" over a 60-kilometre corridor along the Zaire-Rwanda border this week and
observed more than 100,000 refugees on the move inside Zaire.

"These were Rwandan refugees," he said "and they had been tracked from Bukavu
and had moved (for) four or five days because of the fighting along the road."

To avoid gunfire, they had moved high up on to a hill. "When we flew over them
they were just breaking camp," he said.

Baril denied there was growing friction between military planners and
humanitarian officials over the numbers in need but agreed there was "a
difference of opinion" on the issue.

He believes as many as 250,000 refugees may be on the run. Aid groups suggest
twice that number.

The general stressed that military planners are relying on "definite sources" of
information and technical data, whereas the aid organizations have not had
contact with the refugees for several days.

But Baril and the aid agencies agree the Central Africans must be helped.

"If we have people starving in our range of our possible operation," he said, "I
really don't care whether he's a refugee or a 'displaced person.' We're going to
go and feed them."

The U.N. Security Council last week authorized deployment of up to 12,000 troops
to help get food to the refugees.

The United States promised about 1,000 logistics specialists and $172 million in
humanitarian aid. The European Union has pledged $244 million.

Canada has promised troops, the leadership of Baril and $15 million in
humanitarian aid with most of the funds going for food, medicine, blankets, crop
seeds, latrines and water in the countries involved.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (REUTER): LEFT BEHIND: A refugee boy, separated from his parents,
gets a lift on to a Red Cross truck bound for Rwanda's capital Kigali
yesterday.; Maurice Baril

                  Copyright 1996 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              736 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 21, 1996

ZAIRE AID FORCE ON HOLD AS JETS SEEK REFUGEES

BYLINE: Ian Black Diplomatic Editor

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 667 words


SCALED-DOWN plans for an international military mission to central Africa were
on hold yesterday, awaiting information from aerial reconnaissance on the
whereabouts of between 500,000 and 700,000 displaced Rwandans whom aid agencies
maintain are still stranded in eastern Zaire.

An RAF Canberra was flying over the region, seeking refugee encampments,
especially in the south Kivu region.

Military leaders from 14 countries, including Britain, France, the United
States, and Canada, delayed a meeting set for yesterday to discuss the size and
shape of a Canadian-led force to help refugees caught in the fighting in eastern
Zaire. They are expected to meet tomorrow in Stuttgart.

With the return to Rwanda in recent days of an estimated 500,000 refugees,
Germany's foreign minister, Klaus Kinkel, said several countries were having
second thoughts about joining the mission.

Michael Portillo, the Defence Secretary, said it was too early to say whether
the 10,000-12,000 strong force envisaged last week was still required. British
troops remain on standby.

France insisted it was still preparing to send soldiers and urged the US to do
the same. Washington has cancelled plans to send combat troops to Zaire and is
preparing instead for a relief operation involving fewer than 1,000 logistical
personnel.

Politicians meet in New York today to decide what help the refugees now need.
Canada will chair a meeting of donor countries in Geneva.

Britain's Overseas Development Administration announced a further pounds 10
million of assistance to the Great Lakes region, bringing to more than pounds 18
million the amount given this year.

Mr Portillo called for a radio information campaign to let Rwandan refugees know
it was safe to go back to their homeland.  "It is possible that there are still
people in deep distress who need our help, so we will go on planning the
mission," he said.

"I think a small number of troops will be necessary anyway on a multinational
basis to help Rwandans with taking the people across the border and to undertake
that information campaign. I really cannot say whether we are going to need the
full military mission."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              737 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 21, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Zaire Rebels Allow Search For Refugees; Rwandans Scattered Around Border Area

Lynne Duke, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A27

LENGTH: 927 words

DATELINE: BUKAVU, Zaire, Nov. 20


As governments and aid groups continued to dispute the number of Rwandan
refugees remaining in eastern Zaire, the rebels who control this border town
agreed tonight to allow relief officials to scour the surrounding area for
refugees and gauge the needs of any they might find.

Since 500,000 Rwandan Hutu refugees returned to their home country over the
weekend from camps around the Zairian border town of Goma, 80 miles north of
here, the fate of the other half-million Rwandans who have taken refuge in
eastern Zaire since 1994 has been hotly disputed. Aid groups maintain that
hundreds of thousands remain in Zaire -- many of them around Bukavu -- while the
Rwandan government proclaimed on Tuesday that all the refugees had returned home
or were on their way there and that the two-year-old refugee crisis was over.

Resolution of the dispute could determine whether foreign governments proceed
with plans to send a multinational military force to help with the feeding and
repatriation of any remaining refugees.

Tonight's move by the rebels, a largely Zairian Tutsi force that has driven the
Zairian army from much of the border region, broke a week-long impasse between
them and international aid workers and gave relief officials their first access
to the Bukavu region since the rebels seized this town on the southern shores of
Lake Kivu nearly three weeks ago.

The Rwandan refugees in Zaire were mostly Hutus who fled their country in 1994
in fear of reprisal killings when a Tutsi-led rebel force halted extremist
Hutus' massacre of Tutsis and moderate Hutus, which claimed an estimated
half-million lives. They settled in camps clustered mostly around Goma and
Bukavu, which were dominated by the perpetrators of the 1994 massacre, who
staged guerrilla raids into Rwanda and prevented the other refugees from
returning there.

The Hutu refugees were scattered from most of those camps in recent weeks by
fighting between the Zairian army and the Zairian rebels, who were backed by the
Rwandan government. At least 500,000 refugees gathered at one Goma-area camp,
Mugunga, and returned to Rwanda over the weekend; the rest are unaccounted for.

The United Nations says about 700,000 Rwandans are still in Zaire. Of those
refugees, aid workers say about 500,000 are scattered in the hills and forests
of Zaire's South Kivu Province, where Bukavu is located.

In Washington, U.S. officials said today that because it is the rainy season in
central Africa, clouds have impeded satellite surveillance attempts to track the
refugees. The United States has used low-flying C-12 and P-3 propeller planes --
one of which observed nearby antiaircraft fire today -- to try to find refugees
who are still unaccounted for. On Tuesday, these aircraft found two groups, each
with approximately 50,000 refugees, on either side of a volcano at the north end
of Lake Kivu. But by today the groups had disappeared, and U.S. officials said
they did not know where they had gone.

The overflights also found an estimated 200,000 people in one group in the
Mitumba Mountains, west of the lake. However, officials said many of those could
be Zairians displaced by fighting in the area. Senior U.S. officials said aerial
surveillance had found nothing south of Bukavu.

Relief officials in Kigali, the Rwandan capital, added to the uncertainty today
when they reported that tens of thousands of refugees from around Bukavu were
moving north toward Goma and could come through that border town into Rwanda
within the next few days.

Here on the the Rusizi River, which separates Bukavu and the Rwandan town of
Cyangugu, there was a small but steady flow of a few hundred refugees into
Rwanda today.

Aid officials contend that the masses of refugees still unaccounted for are in
dire need of food and medical care. The international military force, these
officials contend, remains critical to ensure that aid is delivered safely and
effectively, and they say the uncertainty about the numbers of refugees makes
discussion of canceling the mission premature.

"This is exactly the wrong time to step back from the worst refugee crisis in
modern times," Lionel A. Rosenblatt, president of the Washington-based Refugees
International, said as he stood at the Rwanda-Zaire border waiting for
permission to cross to Bukavu.

The fate of the proposed force will be discussed Friday in Stuttgart, Germany,
by representatives of nations that may participate in the mission.

Returning refugees who crossed from Bukavu to Cyangugu today told of continuing
ethnic conflict deep in the Kivu region, with members of the former Rwandan
militias continuing their anti-Tutsi campaign on Zairian soil.

"My coming here now is because of the instability in that place," Antoine
Kayiranga, 50, said of the camp at Katana, about 25 miles north of here, where
he lived until early this month. He was separated from his wife and children
during the fighting in the region and does not know where they are.

Unlike most of the refugees who have poured back into Rwanda in recent days,
Kayiranga is a Tutsi who fled Rwanda in 1959 when Hutus came to power shortly
before Rwanda gained independence from Belgium. Despite having deep roots in
Zaire after so many years of living here, Kayiranga said he had to leave because
the Hutu extremists who have lived among the Rwandan refugees "have exported
their genocide ideology to that region."

Correspondent Stephen Buckley in Kigali and staff writer Thomas W. Lippman in
Washington contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart; Photo, carol guzy , HOW TO HELP REFUGEES IN ZAIRE DIRECT AID
Adventist Development and Relief Agency 12501 Old Columbia Pike Silver Spring,
MD 20904 (301) 680-6370 American Jewish Joint Dist. Committee 711 Third Avenue,
10th Floor New York, NY 10017 (212) 885-0832 (212) 885-0815 American Jewish
World Service 989 Avenue of the Americas, 10th Floor New York, NY 10018 (800)
889-7146 Africare 440 R Street, NW Washington, DC 20001 (202) 462-3614 American
Red Cross ARC International Response Fund P.O. Box 37243 Washington, DC 20013
(800) HELP NOW (English) (800) 257-7575 (Spanish) American Refugee Committee
2344 Nicollet Avenue South, Suite 350 Minneapolis, MN 55404 (612) 872-7060
Baptist World Aid Africa Refugee Assistance 6733 Curran Street McLean, VA
22102-6005 (703) 790-8980 Brother's Brother Foundation 1501 Reedsdale Street
Suite 3005 Pittsburgh, PA 15233-2341 (412) 321-3160 CARE Central Africa Crisis
Response 151 Ellis Street, NE Atlanta, GA 30303-2439 (800) 521-CARE Catholic
Relief Services P.O. Box 17090 Baltimore MD 21203-7090 (800) 736-3467 Christian
Reformed World Relief Committee 2850 Kalamazoo Avenue SE Grand Rapids, MI 49560
(800) 55CRWRC Concern Worldwide USA 104 East 40th St., Room 903 New York NY
10016 (212) 557-8000 Direct Relief International 27 South La Patera Lane Santa
Barbara, CA 93117 (805) 964-4767 Doctors Without Borders 11 East 26th Street,
19th Floor New York, NY 10010 (212) 679-6800 Doctors of the World 375 West
Broadway, 4th Floor New York, NY 10012 (888) 817-HELP Food for the Hungry 7729
East Greenway Road Scottsdale, A

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              738 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                          November 20, 1996 Wednesday

Caution on the road to Kigali

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 596 words


'WE have already won an early battle against moral blindness and self-interest
by galvanizing the world community," Jean Chrétien says of Canada's leadership
in the mission to Central Africa. "Let us now do what is required to complete
the work."

Here are two thoughts begging examination, in light of changing circumstances.
The first suggests that Canada has succeeded in bringing this calamity to the
world's attention. For the most part, this is true. It was Mr. Chrétien who
telephoned world leaders and won commitments from them to join the force. By
week's end he had recruited a dozen nations -- including the United States,
France and Britain -- for a multinational force, eventually authorized by the UN
Security Council.

Whether Mr. Chrétien was motivated by frustration, morality or opportunism,
whether he wanted to revive Pearsonian diplomacy or restore honour to the
tarnished armed forces, he acted creatively. As the leader of a middle power
with a tradition of humanitarian intervention, he was able to mobilize Canada's
resources, influence and good will. Moreover, he was able to win the confidence
of the Africans and of the Americans.

The mandate of the mission was largely (though not wholly) defined when Canadian
soldiers departed for Zaire on Friday. The purpose was to provide food, water
and medicine to the refugees in the camps of Zaire and secure safe passage for
them to return to Rwanda. It was not to disarm the rebels or prop up the
government. The mission was to stay four months and carry weapons, with strict
rules of engagement.

That was last week. Now things have changed. On the weekend, the refugees
unexpectedly began leaving the camps for Rwanda. Today these camps are largely
empty. The apparent need is not to provide them protection to leave Zaire, but
to feed and house them in Rwanda.

All of which brings us to the second part of Mr. Chrétien's statement: "Let us
now do what is required to complete the work." The question, of course, is
knowing what is required in Central Africa today, which isn't necessarily what
was required last week. The Prime Minister says the situation is "fluid" but
maintains the mission is still necessary.

But are 12,000 soldiers still necessary? Maybe, we could say, if there are
indeed 500,000 weak and hungry refugees remaining in the bush, as aid agencies
maintain. The trouble is that this assessment is contested, and it has
introduced two new constraints. First, the government of Rwanda says it doesn't
want foreign soldiers on its soil, which is why it refuses to let any more
Canadians land in Kigali. Second, the United States has rescinded its offer of
soldiers, agreeing only to provide logistical support.

The situation is changing. If the Rwandans refuse to welcome the multinational
force, it will have to operate out of Zaire, which will be harder. And if the
Americans refuse to join it, it will be considerably weaker.

Members of the government have allowed that the mission may well be changed,
which will be discussed in New York today and Germany tomorrow. It may be too
early to say how, but it could be reduced dramatically, or even cancelled.

The challenge for Canada is to manage the mission's momentum. That we have
organized the mission is not reason to send it -- unless its necessity is
reaffirmed by new information. At the moment, the mission should be rethought
and recalibrated. In light of changed circumstances, should more of our
resources be devoted to sending food rather than troops? The worst course would
be to do something solely for the sake of doing it.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1996 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              739 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 20, 1996

America will send Zaire food instead of troops

BYLINE: Patrick Brogan

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 537 words


THE Clinton administration has decided with great relief that it need not send
any troops to Zaire, to help Rwandan refugees return. Just four days after Mr
Clinton announced that 5000 troops were going, the Secretary of Defence, William
Perry, said today that 300 would be quite enough - and in Rwanda, not Zaire
itself.

These will be Air Force personnel and they will help air traffic control at
Kigali airport. Others will deploy to airports at Entebbe in Uganda and Mombasa
in Kenya. In all, there will be fewer than 1000 Americans, all employed in
logistics.

The change in the situation on the ground began on Friday, just as Mr Clinton
announced his decision. Half a million Rwandan refugees have already returned
home and it is hoped that the rest will follow in the next few days. What they
need now is humanitarian relief, and the Americans are already despatching
planeloads of food and medicine.

They announced yesterday that the United States would provide $ 140m (£85m) for
relief operations, aimed chiefly at helping children.

The head of the US Agency for International Development (AID) said today that
there were still more than 100,000 refugees in Zaire. They have been spotted
from the air: the US has been flying reconnaissance flights over the region for
the past week.

The American decision to scale back its efforts before they began could be
reversed again, if the need arose. Mr Perry made the point today that the
situation remains very fluid. The future of the international operation will be
discussed on Thursday at a meeting in Frankfurt under the chairmanship of the
Canadians.

Meanwhile, for many Hutus the suffering continued in the homeland they fled in
1994 after their kinsmen committed genocide against minority Tutsis and pro
-opposition Hutus.

Tens of thousands of returning refugees demanding food today blocked the streets
of Nkamira, 13 miles northeast of Gisenyi at the border with Zaire.

French President Jacques Chirac, speaking in Tokyo, backed the force despite the
mass migration. He said one French objective was security in eastern Zaire - a
new mission for the force given a narrow mandate by the Security Council.

Britain also refused to bury the force, dogged by delays and confusion for the
past fortnight before it is even deployed.

Rwanda wants the resources originally set aside for the force to be diverted to
resettle the returnees instead.

The peace force's future also appeared complicated by President Nelson Mandela,
who said South Africa would contribute troops only if they were led by an
officer from the region.

"I am not prepared to put my troops under any other commander except a commander
from the Great Lakes," Mandela told reporters.

Two soldiers stood on guard outside the UN transit centre at Nkamira, stopping
refugees from entering to have a rest, sleep and receive food as planned by the
UNHCR.

The Rwandan authorities insist the refugees, exhausted by days of marching and
sleeping rough, keep trudging onwards to their home villages.

The few who have made it back to their villages said there had been no animosity
from their former Tutsi neighbours.

Washington, Tuesday

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.


                              740 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                  November 20, 1996, Wednesday, METRO EDITION

Africa force in doubt Canada may give aid - not troops, Chretien says

BYLINE: by Tim Harper Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 794 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


   OTTAWA - Prime Minister Jean Chretien said yesterday the refugee crisis in
Central Africa may not require a military intervention.

The United States yesterday decided to reduce its troop commitment for the
region from 5,000 to fewer than 1,000 - none of them combat units - after the
peaceful return since Friday of about 500,000 refugees from Zaire to Rwanda.

Ottawa appeared ready to follow suit a week after pledging to lead an
international force of as many as 12,000 soldiers.

"It might be, in the next three or four days, we might be in a situation where
the armed forces will not be needed any more," Chretien told the House of
Commons yesterday.

He said Rwanda has promised it would facilitate the smooth movement of relief
workers and open its southern border to a further influx of refugees from Zaire.

"This would not necessarily have to be done by soldiers," Chretien said.

Three meetings this week are expected to make clear the relief force's final
shape:

* At the United Nations today in New York, the mission partners mobilized by
Chretien will examine what help the refugees require.

* In Stuttgart, Germany, tomorrow or Friday, Canada, America and other troop
contributors will plan the role - if any - of the military.

* In Geneva Saturday, Canada's International Co-operation Minister Don Boudria
will convene a meeting - possibly the most important of the three - of donor
nations to examine what aid each country or international agency can bring.

In Kigali yesterday, Foreign Minister Anastase Gasana said Rwanda would only
accept military units coming to help with projects such as distributing water
and building emergency housing.

"We want the secretary-general to make a report to the (U.N.) Security Council
that the mission is not now necessary," Gasana told reporters.

But the mission's Canadian commander insisted yesterday a role remains for the
multinational force in central Africa, The Star's Allan Thompson reports.

"The aim of my mission in here was to see what could be done for the refugees -
wherever they are," Lt.-Gen. Maurice Baril said in Kigali.

"We are evaluating what we can do and readjusting any planning that was going
on."

Baril was to meet Rwandan officials in the capital Kinshasa before continuing to
Stuttgart.

The Prime Minister said if things unfold efficiently, there would be no need for
military intervention once the refugees return home to Rwanda.

"The problem would become strictly humanitarian," Chretien said.

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has appealed for $66.9 million
for its emergency operation for refugees displaced by the fighting in eastern
Zaire.

Canada has pledged $15 million.

"We have taken on the leadership for the whole intervention. It seems totally
logical that the leadership be also taken for the humanitarian intervention,"
Boudria said.

"Remember, the only reason there is a military intervention to start with is to
offer the humanitarian aid."

In other developments yesterday:

* A disagreement arose over where aid is required.

Gasana said "hardly any" of the 500,000 Rwandan refugees remain in eastern
Zaire.

But the U.N. refugee agency contradicted him, saying the Zairean camps held more
than 1.2 million refugees.

U.N. envoy Raymond Chretien said in Kigali: "There are still approximately
between 300,000 and 500,000 (unaccounted refugees) according to our best
estimates and we have to know a bit more about what is happening to them."

* U.S. Defence Secretary William Perry said the United States still planned to
join the Canadian-led force in its mission to help the refugees and encourage
voluntary repatriation.

But he said the mass return justified a smaller force "and these will be support
logistics troops rather than combat troops." Washington had planned to commit
about 1,000 ground forces and about 4,000 other military personnel for massive
support operations such as transport.

* The peace force's future appeared complicated by President Nelson Mandela, who
said South Africa would contribute troops only if they were led by an officer
from the region.

"I am not prepared to put my troops under any other commander except a commander
from the Great Lakes (region of Africa)," Mandela told reporters. Initial plans
called for South African troops to remain in the region after the international
force completed its four- to six-month mission.

* The British government ordered a probe into arms export controls after the
discovery of documents indicating a British firm supplied $5.53 million in
military equipment to the Rwandan Defence Ministry during the massacre of
thousands of Tutsis.

With files from Reuters.

see related story, page A23

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (pg A29) photo: U.N. ENVOY: Raymond Chretien pictured yesterday in
Rwanda.

                  Copyright 1996 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              741 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                   November 19, 1996, Tuesday, METRO EDITION

Zaire mission to proceed: PM But task shifting, Chretien says

BYLINE: By Tim Harper TORONTO STAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 425 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


   OTTAWA - Prime Minister Jean Chretien says the Canadian-led humanitarian
mission to Zaire will proceed, although the nature of the job is shifting,
buffeted by changes in the region.

"We have already won an early battle against moral blindness and self-interest,
by galvanizing the world community into action," Chretien told the House of
Commons yesterday.

"Let us now do what is required to complete the task."

As he spoke in a parliamentary debate, Foreign Affairs Minister Lloyd Axworthy
shored up support for the multinational force which is gathering to aid hundreds
of thousands of refugees in Central Africa.

But Washington has hesitated in its support of the force and African nations are
calling for aid rather than arms.

The need for intervention was cast into doubt by the mass exodus of refugees
into Rwanda following the collapse of Hutu militias that had been holding them
virtually hostage in camps along the border in Zaire.

Defence Minister Doug Young suggested yesterday to reporters that the military
component of the initiative could be called off and turned into a strictly
humanitarian effort.

"Canadians deserve to know what we are getting into and what we can reasonably
expect," the Prime Minister told the Commons.

The return of some 500,000 refugees from Zaire to Rwanda is "all very good
news," he said.

"But let's not forget that fighting continues in the region and the situation is
very fluid.

"We know the changes on the ground will affect the mission."

In response to those changes, Chretien said, Canada pumped $15 million in
humanitarian aid into the region and has organized a meeting of major donor
nations.

That meeting could take place perhaps as early as Saturday, according to
International Co-Operation Minister Don Boudria.

In addition, Christine Stewart, secretary of state for Latin America and Africa,
has been dispatched to Africa to meet with leaders believed to be resisting the
international effort, and force leader Lt.-Gen. Maurice Baril was to arrive
overnight in the region to be briefed by the special United Nations envoy,
Canada's Raymond Chretien.

The shape of the effort is likely to be decided at a meeting of
troop-contributing nations set for Thursday in Stuttgart, Germany.

The opposition Bloc Quebecois lent its support to Chretien during Commons
debate, but the Reform party would only "grudgingly" back the mission, according
to its foreign affairs critic Bob Mills (Red Deer).

* The Star's view, A20

* Canadians settle in, A14

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              742 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   November 19, 1996, Tuesday, Final Edition

Families Fall Apart On Road to Rwanda; Thousands of Children Find Themselves
Alone After Walk That Was Supposed to Lead Home

Stephen Buckley, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 995 words

DATELINE: GISENYI, Rwanda, Nov. 18


As they hustled to escape the world's largest refugee camp last week, thousands
of Rwandans left behind some of their most important possessions: their
children.

Some youngsters got separated from loved ones during the weeks when as many as
500,000 Rwandan refugees were crushed into Mugunga camp in eastern Zaire,
roughly 10 miles west of this border town. Others vanished on Friday when the
refugees, tired of two years in exile and two weeks caught between warring
militias, began walking to the Rwandan border.

"We left Mugunga during the evening, after the fighting," Immaculae Hatungakana,
46. "We were walking together, and then I turned around and he was gone. Since
then, I have been calling his name over and over on the road."

The boy, 7, has not answered. He may be among the nearly 2,000 children who have
passed through the transit center for unaccompanied youngsters and infants at
the border. Or he may not.

Aid workers said that figure was lower than expected for such an exodus, but
they stressed that they believe thousands more children are still on the Zairian
side of the border. No one knows precisely how many children were in the refugee
camps in eastern Zaire that for two years held about 1.1 million refugees.

Most of the refugees were members of Rwanda's Hutu ethnic majority who fled in
1994 when a Tutsi-led rebel force took power from a militant Hutu government
that had slaughtered at least 500,000 Tutsis in a matter of weeks.

About 750,000 Hutus settled in camps around this town, but fighting between
Zairian troops and a Zairian rebel force -- led by Tutsis and backed by Rwanda's
Tutsi-led government -- cleared all of the camps except one, Mugunga. The
half-million refugees there were under the sway of former government and
military leaders who intimidated anyone seeking to return to Rwanda -- until
Friday, when continued fighting drove the Hutu militants deeper into Zaire and
the refugees headed the other way.

Relief officials said some children returned to Rwanda alone after losing their
parents when fighting broke out in other camps before refugees began crowding
into Mugunga. The children made it to Mugunga, then came into Rwanda with the
rest of the refugees this past weekend.

Claver Ntuyenabo, 45, said he became separated from his three daughters and two
sons while they were hiding in a forest after fighting broke out in their
refugee camp three weeks ago.

Ntuyenabo, who crossed into Rwanda alone on Saturday, said his family had left
him in the forest because "I was very weak, and I was sick. I told them to wait
for me at a particular point. I never saw them. I continued alone to Mugunga.
Then I came to Rwanda."

Relief workers said such accounts are not uncommon among the unaccompanied
children they have seen since Friday. But most frequently, they said, children
got separated from their parents during the trip from Mugunga.

During their trek to Rwanda, the refugees packed the road to the border. Fathers
hefted children onto their shoulders. Mothers strapped babies to their backs,
and youngsters clung to their skirts, half-running with awkward, choppy strides.

But many children, jugs of water or small sacks on their heads, could not keep
up with their families. At times the crush of moving people became especially
chaotic. The air was thick with sweat. Couples argued. Children bawled.

"Children, hold on to your parents!" aid workers shouted continually through
megaphones as refugees passed the border. "Parents, hold on to your children!"

Many tried but could not.

"It was easy to lose two or three children," said Mike McDonagh, emergency
coordinator for the Concern relief group. "I walked in the middle of those
refugees, and it was dark and confusing."

The lost children who are now in the care of aid workers appear stunned. Many
are exhausted, having walked for as long as three weeks with little food or
water. They do not move. They do not speak.

Infants and toddlers, meanwhile, often appear oblivious to their plight. In a
room at the transit center for unaccompanied children, they screamed, sucked
their fingers, eyed strangers with curiosity and slept.

A girl, about a year old, eagerly took porridge from a relief worker, who gently
wiped the child's lips after every spoonful. The girl's mother died on Sunday.

Aid workers say that cases involving such small children are especially tough
because the youngsters cannot provide information that could help relief
agencies reunite them with parents or relatives.

"They can't tell you their parents' names or which commune they're from," said
Charlie Main, an emergency officer with UNICEF.

Relief groups can do little more than take pictures of the youngest children and
distribute them. Older ones do provide crucial information, which aid groups --
primarily Save the Children, the International Committee of the Red Cross and
Concern -- then distribute in the child's home community, hoping that someone
who knows the boy or girl will see it.

Some unaccompanied children are intentionally left behind. Many youngsters who
were separated from their parents as long ago as the 1994 exodus to eastern
Zaire were taken in by strangers. Upon returning to Rwanda, those strangers
sometimes "no longer see the child as a priority," said Mary Dunne, a Concern
nurse.

Among all the trauma that marked the trek into Rwanda, some stories had happy
endings. Today, Ndwi Mukanya, 22, sat by the road several hundred yards after
crossing into Rwanda with her 3-day-old baby.

The baby, late afternoon sun glistening off its black curls, reared its head
back and howled, repeatedly clenching its tiny, wrinkly fingers. Mukanya said
she had walked several miles into her homeland after giving birth to the girl,
who does not yet have a name.

Mukanya, who said her ordeal left her with an aching back, pressed out a weak
smile. "In all of this trouble," she said, "I am happy."


LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, carol guzy, HOW TO HELP THE REFUGEES American Red Cross ARC
International Response Fund P.O. Box 37243 Washington, D.C. 20013 (800) HELP NOW
(English) (800) 257-7575 (Spanish) CARE Central Africa Crisis Response 151 Ellis
St., NE Atlanta, Ga. 30303-2439 (800) 521-CARE OXFAM America 26 West St.
Boston, Mass. 02111 (800) OXFAM US Save the Children Africa Emergency P.O. 975R
Westport, Conn. 06881 (203) 221-4130 Salvation Army World Service 615 Slaters
Lane P.O. Box 269 Alexandria, Va. 22313 (703) 684-5528 Doctors Without Borders
11 E. 16th St., 19th Floor New York, N.Y. 10010 (212) 679-6800 U.S. Committee
for UNICEF Zaire Emergency Relief 333 E. 38th St.  New York, N.Y. 10016 (212)
686-5522 World Vision Africa Great Lakes Relief P.O. Box 70005 Takoma, Wash.
98471-0005 (888) 511-6565 Rwandan refugees returning from Zaire push and carry
their belongings along a road that links the border town of Gisenyi and Kigali,
the capital of Rwanda.  Mary Dunne, a nurse with the Irish aid agency Concern,
hugs one of nearly 2,000 children who returned from Zaire to Rwanda without an
adult relative.  On His Own Separated from his parents during the long walk back
to their home country, a frightened Rwandan refugee boy is one of nearly 2,000
children who have been processed at a center for lost youngsters at the
Rwandan-Zairian border.  Rwandan children who have become separated from their
families sit in a transit center on the border, waiting to be claimed or sent to
their home villages, where they might find relatives.

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              743 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                Guardian Weekly

                               November 17, 1996

Canada prepared to lead Zaire force

BYLINE: Chris McGreal in Goma and agencies

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 405 words


CANADA offered this week to lead a multinational force to help end the crisis in
eastern Zaire and bring vital relief to more than a million Hutu refugees
displaced by four weeks of fighting, United Nations sources said in New York.

Canada's intervention came as Laurent Kabila, the leader of the Rwandan-backed
rebels who have seized parts of eastern Zaire, threatened a renewed attack on a
large refugee camp unless the international community sends troops to neutralise
Hutu extremists.

South Africa would also be prepared to send troops as part of an international
force, President Nelson Mandela said in a television interview on Monday. He
said he would send a delegation to the region to gather information.

Meanwhile the United States, a crucial player in any UN decision to send troops
to Central Africa, denied it was blocking the creation of an international force
but said it had still not seen a coherent plan for assembling one.

In Goma, the provincial capital seized by rebels earlier this month, Mr Kabila
appeared to be laying the groundwork for breaking his own ceasefire in order to
launch a new onslaught against Hutu militias using Rwandan refugees as a shield.

Speaking as the first humanitarian aid dribbled into rebel-held areas on Monday,
Mr Kabila, who heads the Alliance of Democratic Forces for the Liberation of
Congo-Zaire, warned that the war was about to escalate because Hutu extremists
in the Mugunga refugee camp were continuing to shell Goma.

He said he would accept an international force only from countries he deemed
neutral. Nations such as Sweden would be acceptable but he would prefer troops
from African countries such as Mall, Zimbabwe or Ethiopia. French soldiers would
be presumed hostile because of Paris's support for Zaire's president, Mobutu
Sese Seiko.

In Goma, there are mixed emotions about the surly young men wandering the
streets with Kalashnikovs over their shoulders. Some say they welcome the rebels
as less abusive than the Zairean forces that fled. Goma was always an ugly town,
but suspicions run deep among the people: "We are glad to see the Zairean army
gone," said Theoneste, a young moneychanger. "They were always drunk. That is
why they did not fight. But these rebels are all Rwandans. We can hear it from
the way they talk. So what do they want here? We are not Tutsis. We are not like
them."

Martin Woollacott, page 14

Le Monde, page 17

LOAD-DATE: December 02, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, Zaireans beat back hungry residents in Goma as they queue at a
UN warehouse, DAVID GUTTENFELDER

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Publication, Ltd.


                              744 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           November 16, 1996 Saturday

UN authorizes Zaire rescue force  Security Council sets March 31 deadline for
Canada-led humanitarian mission to end its work

BYLINE: BY PAUL KNOX The Globe and Mail

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1024 words


The United Nations Security Council unanimously gave its blessing last night to
a Canadian-led multinational force in eastern Zaire, authorizing it to use "all
necessary means" to rescue hundreds of thousands of refugees cut off from aid by
fighting.

The 15-member council set a deadline of March 31 for the force to finish
delivering food and medicine to the refugees and help their "voluntary, orderly
repatriation" to neighbouring Rwanda.

Council members ignored Rwanda's plea to hold off approval while seeking more
information about the mass return of refugees that began yesterday from one zone
in the vast, troubled region.

They heeded the call of Robert Fowler, Canadian ambassador to the UN, who said
the 1994 slaughter of Tutsis and moderate Hutus in Rwanda approached the horrors
of the Holocaust and must not be repeated.

"We are absolutely convinced that there is no alternative but to act," Mr.
Fowler told the council. "When we said, 'Never again,' we meant it."

Even with the beginning of yesterday's refugee exodus from Zaire to Rwanda, Mr.
Fowler said, there are still "close to a million" Rwandans and displaced
Zairians who need food, shelter and medical help. "People will continue to die
in eastern Zaire in appalling numbers."

The decision means 10,000 troops from 20 countries will be sent to Central
Africa as soon as they can be airlifted there. U.S. and Canadian reconnaissance
teams already are in the area.

Most of the force will be made up of soldiers from the United States, France,
Britain and Canada, Mr. Fowler said, adding that firm offers of troops have been
received from other European countries, Latin America and Africa.

He pleaded with other countries to contribute to a UN fund set up to pay the
expenses of African countries providing troops. So far, Senegal, Ethiopia and
Malawi have offered battalions, he said.

The force will be limited to helping relief agencies return to eastern Zaire and
distribute supplies among refugees and Zairian civilians, as well as allowing
those who want to return home to do so.

Mr. Fowler rejected the idea of broadening the mandate to include disarming Hutu
militias and former members of the Rwandan army who have been active among the
refugees in Zaire.

That would imply a declaration of war, he said. "Such a war would bring enormous
and immediate harm to those we are seeking to save."

Relief agencies say it will be difficult to get food and medicine to many of
those who need it without disarming the militiamen who still control some groups
of refugees.

Rwanda's UN ambassador, Gideon Kayinamura, told the council that the proposed
force was "no longer relevant, at least as far as rescuing refugees in eastern
Zaire is concerned."

He said the mission should be smaller, be able to disarm the militias and last
only two or three months. Other countries should provide Rwanda with resources
to help resettle returning refugees, he added.

Mr. Kayinamura traded verbal shots with Zaire's UN ambassador, Lukabu Khabouji
N'Zaji, who accused Rwanda of staging yesterday's refugee exodus as a
"diversionary tactic" to slow the momentum for a rescue force.

"We are not responsible for the misery Zaire is going through," Mr. Kayinamura
retorted.

Earlier, U.S. President Bill Clinton said news of the refugees' return was
encouraging, but the mission should still go ahead with U.S. participation. "The
world's most powerful nation must not turn its back on so many desperate people
and so many innocent children," he told reporters at the White House.

Foreign Affairs Minister Lloyd Axworthy, claiming partial credit for the return
to Rwanda of refugees, told reporters in Ottawa that it would be wrong to cut
the size of the planned rescue mission.

"The initiative that was taken this week, beginning last weekend with the Prime
Minister, is already, I think, beginning to pay its own dividends in terms of
having a breakthrough."

U.S. officials prevailed in arm-wrestling with Canada over the maximum length of
the mission. The Canadians had argued for a six-month term.

Mr. Fowler also said plans will be drawn up for a follow-up mission headed by
the UN that would focus on human rights, reconciliation and strengthening
democratic institutions in Rwanda.

Rwandan Hutu refugees swarmed into eastern Zaire in 1994 after members of the
Tutsi ethnic group seized power. The Hutus, who included Rwandan army troops and
militia members, feared reprisals for massacres of Tutsis and moderate Hutus
carried out by Hutu extremists.

Militias took effective control of some UN-supervised camps, warning the
refugees that they would be killed if they returned home.

The latest crisis erupted when anti-government rebels, many of them Tutsis with
links to Rwanda, began an offensive in the border region, routing Zairian troops
and seizing three towns. Refugees fled the camps to avoid getting caught in the
fighting.

Controversy swirled around the dramatic return of thousands of refugees
yesterday. The giant Mugunga camp emptied, apparently after the Hutu militias
that controlled it were routed in an onslaught by the Tutsi rebels.

Mr. Fowler's estimate of nearly a million people in need of aid in Zaire was at
odds with that of Ray Wilkinson, an official of the UN High Commissioner for
Refugees in Goma, the key refugee centre. He said 700,000 refugees in the Goma
area were heading to Rwanda.

Two days ago, the UN's humanitarian affairs department said 200,000 refugees
from Katale, the northernmost camp in the region, were dispersed in thick forest
about 70 kilometres northwest of Goma.

Another 250,000 fled camps near the southern town of Uvira, the first to be
captured by the rebels more than two weeks ago. And about 200,000 had been
housed in camps near Bukavu, which is between Uvira and Goma.

Before yesterday, only small groups of a few thousand each had reached Tanzania,
Burundi, Rwanda and Uganda after fleeing the rebel onslaught.

Relief agency staff said the Mugunga refugees were likely to be stronger and
healthier than those roaming the bush. They are reportedly surviving by eating
grass, roots and rotting sweet potatoes from abandoned hill farms.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1996 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              745 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 16, 1996

OVERVIEW: NOVEMBER 9 - 15

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1720 words


United States

'I get so much money to fight, man, how can I not continue?' asked a battered
Mike Tyson after being beaten into submission against all the bookies' odds in
the eleventh round in Las Vegas by Evander Holyfield. A reasonable enough
question, given that the controversial heavyweight and former rape convict
picked up A18 million for one night's violent drubbing in front of 16,000
hysterical fans. Holyfield (A8 million) modestly attributed his victory to god.

No sooner was Tyson led off in his blood-stained white towelling than his
promoter, the eccentric despot Don King, was talking up a rematch he claimed
could break box-office records. This week's spectacle drew the biggest
pay-per-view audience in boxing's television history 1.6 million people.

French Guiana

The European Space Agency's launch-pad for its Ariane rockets (right) a place
otherwise known as French Guiana, South America's only non-independent state was
shaken by days of rioting in the capital, Cayenne. Paris flew 200 paramilitary
riot police reinforcements into the territory when protests by school students
over poor conditions turned into a looting free-for-all.

Zaire

After the better part of a month of studious hesitation over whether to send
troops to help more than a million refugees in eastern Zaire, the United States
decided to commit ground forces to central Africa, but hand the chalice of
potential disaster to Canadian command of the multinational operation. Britain
came on board, as did France, which had with Spain led calls for intervention.

But force contributors insisted their focus was an aid mission, and not to
complete the unfinished business from the 1994 genocide in Rwanda - the source
of the present Zaire conflict. This would mean disarming Rwandan Hutu refugee
fighters in eastern Zaire, and probably also clipping the wings of their rivals,
Zairean factions backed by the Rwandan army.

The oddly named Operation Phoenix Tusk, under a United Nations mandate, is
expected to last at maximum six months. Then a mainly African force would
replace it.

But confusion over the size and task of the mission deepened when thousands of
refugees began to head back towards the Rwandan border as their interahamwe
tormentors retreated westwards.

Belgium

The European Union's independent Court of Auditors reported that fraud and
bureaucratic error around the EU cost an estimated A3.2 billion last year.
Fiddles by farmers and olive oil producers, and the erroneous waiving of customs
duties, were among the errors of omission or commission found. But, it added, 80
per cent of the money gone astray was the responsibility of member states; 20
per cent was down to Brussels.

Greece

The nation with the biggest budget deficit in the European Union had a brilliant
new idea. It unveiled a military spending programme to pump more than A11
billion into overhauling its armed forces by 2007. The insistence of the prime
minister, Costas Simitis, that this would not affect Athens' targets for meeting
European Monetary Union criteria left some wondering whether he had been reading
too many Greek myths.

Caspian Sea

The week of the United Nations Food Summit in Rome, not to mention the refugee
crisis in Zaire, seemed less than an ideal moment for the World Wildlife Fund to
dish up troubling news for the rich: Planet Earth is on the brink of running out
of caviar due to rampant sturgeon-poaching centred in the Caspian Sea.

And that wasn't all: South African ostrich meat, beloved of trendies shunning
beef, was banned by the European Union due to reports it carries a potentially
fatal disease.

Bosnia

Hoping to relegate one of the most embarrassing figures from the Bosnia war to
non-person status, Bosnian Serb politicos issued an ultimatum to their military
commander, General Ratko Mladic: step down, or else.

Or else what? was the attitude of the indicted war criminal's troops as they set
up roadblocks around Mladic headquarters and invited some visiting Bosnian Serb
luminaries including the defence minister to stay for dinner. Indefinitely.

Meanwhile, word at a Paris conference was that a 30,000-strong international
force would remain in Bosnia for one or two years the high figure reflecting
pessimism that the 'peace' would last if the republic were left to its own
devices.

Hong Kong

The Hong Kong Governor, Chris Patten, flew to London to seek firmer guarantees
of residence rights in Britain after 1997 for up to 5,000 ethnic-minority
residents of the colony. Despite backing from the Queen, his mission bore no
immediate fruit. Nor did the government, which is rebasing 750 Gurhka troops
(right) to Britain, relent on its refusal to let the soldiers' families, who
live with them in Hong Kong, go along.

India

Two fiery rows blew up over the world's worst mid-air crash when a Kazakh cargo
plane collided with a Saudi jumbo jet near New Delhi's airport, killing 349
people (below).

Russian officialdom, defending the Kazakh pilot, said outmoded control equipment
at the airport was to blame. The Indians blamed a misunderstanding by the Kazakh
pilot, or equipment failure on his allegedly poorly maintained plane.

While that verbal war went on, funerals began for the victims, conducted by
Muslim, Hindu and Christian clergy. But Muslims (the majority of the Indian dead
from the Saudi plane) bury their dead, and Hindus cremate them. Thus a tragedy
looked like being compounded by a religious dispute.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              746 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 16, 1996, Saturday

Guide to the Zaire crisis: Which military units will be going in to help; The
forces

BYLINE: Christopher Bellamy Defence Correspondent

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL; Page  10

LENGTH: 288 words


Reconnaissance teams from the Western nations leading the international
intervention in eastern Zaire have begun arriving in central Africa. The first
United States teams arrived on Thursday and the first British reconnaissance
team, 43-strong, was due to arrive in Nairobi at 6.30 last night, having flown
from Brize Norton in Oxfordshire.

The intervention force is deploying under Chapter Seven of the United Nations
Charter, in an "enforcement" rather than a peace-keeping role.  The troops will
concentrate on guaranteeing the delivery of humanitarian aid and helping
refugees return home, but will fire back if they or those they are guarding are
threatened.

Of the 75 nations represented at the UN meeting in New York, as yet only Canada,
the US, Britain, France, Spain and six African countries appear committed to
providing troops

The headquarters of operation "Phoenix Tusk" will be Goma, the main airfield and
centre of refugee movement. Yesterday, 10,000 refugees from the five camps
around Goma were reported to be moving back through the town and south-east into
Rwanda, the first of an estimated 300,000-400,000. The operation will be
commanded by the 1st Canadian Division, under General Maurice Baril. Canada is
sending a force of 1,500 in all.

US troops will also head for Goma. About 1,000 US troops are expected to be
deployed on the ground; another 2,000 to 3,000 are expected to be based in
Uganda and Kenya.

Britain and France are likely to secure the airport at Buk-avu. Britain plans to
send head- quarters of 5 Airborne Brigade, troops from 1st Battalion Parachute
regiment and 45 Commando, Royal Marines. MoD sources said yesterday the British
force could reach 3,000.


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd


                              747 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                   November 15, 1996, Friday, JOURNAL EDITION

President Clinton right to move slowly on Zaire

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 540 words


THE UNITED STATES has taken some heat for its reluctance to send troops into the
maelstrom of fighting, killing and starving that has enveloped the Zaire-Rwanda
border. Now President Clinton has announced plans to contribute some 4,000
soldiers to a multinational force that will try to restore the flow of food,
water and medicine to hundreds of thousands of refugees.

The decision may quiet some of the international criticism, but the fact is that
the administration was correct to move very carefully on this issue, and to
insist that certain security safeguards be guaranteed before any troops are
dispatched. Both in the short term and in the long run, this is a crisis that
has no easy answers and few hard ones, and any intervention holds grave risks
for everyone concerned ---foreign troops, aid workers and refugees alike.

Remember that the humanitarian tragedy of the refugees is taking place in the
middle of two civil wars: the bloody tribal conflict between Hutus and Tutsis in
Rwanda, and the effort by rebels to overthrow the government of Zaire. Many of
the refugees themselves are direct participants, not innocent bystanders.

In this fiercely hazardous environment, it's far more likely that things will go
wrong than right. So we believe the president was wise to go slow and to demand
several conditions: agreement by all parties to allow the international force to
operate, tough rules of engagement that will allow the troops to use whatever
force necessary to protect themselves, and a fixed time limit on the operation.

In the long run, we don't see why the United States has any higher obligation
than any other nation to bring order to the chaos of the region. No specific
American political interest is at stake, and when it comes to humanitarian
concerns, every country bears an exactly equal obligation. There's no reason
Washington should be expected to take the lead in every crisis, especially when
other nations are as well-equipped to contribute.

The conflict in Rwanda and Zaire is precisely the sort of thing that ought to be
addressed by countries closest to the action, and thus most directly affected.
At the United Nations, America has already proposed an African Crisis Response
Force (ACRF), that would include military forces from nations like South Africa,
Nigeria, Ethiopia, Senegal and others. A bipartisan commitment in Congress got $
20 million in the federal budget to help create such a force.

In a post-Cold War world of ethnic and nationalist outbreaks, that is a far more
sensible approach ---in any region, not just Africa ---than the automatic
assumption that the United States must lead, and carry the heaviest burden, in
every crisis around the globe.

We don't suggest that America shrink from defending its genuine interests, or
from carrying its fair share of the burden. We do believe that it's time for new
structures, new processes, and new ways of calculating responsibilities, so that
future international endeavors will be not just fair, but maybe even more
effective.

Editorials represent the position of The Atlanta Journal and are written by its
editiorial board, whose members are Jim Wooten, Jeff Dickerson, Martha Ezzard
and Richard Matthews.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 The Atlanta Constitution


                              748 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The Daily Yomiuri

                           November 15, 1996, Friday

Govt considering personnel contribution to Zaire effort

BYLINE: Yomiuri

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 201 words


The government has begun studying the specific personnel and financial
contributions it can make to the international effort to aid refugees in Zaire,
senior government officials said Thursday.

"We have started to look into the possibility of contributing personnel," Chief
Cabinet Secretary Seiroku Kajiyama told reporters.

Japan will not participate in the multinational force to be made up of troops
from the United States, Canada, Britain, France and other European and African
nations because this body will be permitted to use arms. Participation in such
force would violate the Constitution, which bans the dispatch of troops to
settle international disputes.

"A request for a financial contribution has already been made by Canada," said a
high-ranking Foreign Ministry official.

However, he said, "Japan wants to consider conspicuous way of providing support
in addition to money."

The government is studying ways to help refugees, possibly in cooperation with
the Office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees or non-government
organizations, he said.

In the autumn of 1994, Self-Defense Forces members were sent to Zaire to help
Rwandan refugees fleeing an internal war.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                        Copyright 1996 The Daily Yomiuri


                              749 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 NOVEMBER 15, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WHAT'S AHEAD FOR U.S. FORCES IN ZAIRE

BYLINE: Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 26A

LENGTH: 374 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Clinton is expected to announce today that the United States will send
military forces to take part in the humanitarian effort to aid refugees in
Zaire. Here is a look at the problem, what the United States might do to help,
and the conditions that must be met for the U.S. to become involved:

The problem: More than 1 million Rwandan refugees, mostly members of the Hutu
ethnic group, are trapped in eastern Zaire. They recently were cut off from
food, clean water, health care and other assistance during an outbreak of
fighting among the Zairean army, Rwandan Hutu guerrillas, and other military
factions.

What's expected: The Americans and other U.N. military forces would help secure
an airport at Goma, near the refugees, to permit international relief
organizations to fly in food and set the stage for other assistance. About 1,000
U.S. infantry soldiers - spearheaded by Army paratroopers based in Vicenza,
Italy - and about 400 Canadians would help secure a three-mile-long corridor
between Goma airport and Rwanda through which refugees could return home safely.
About 4,000 American soldiers are expected to participate in airlift and
security operations over about four months.

Potential dangers: American forces would face conditions as dangerous and
chaotic as those three years ago in Somalia, where 18 U.S. service personnel
died in a firefight. There are tens of thousands of armed Rwandan Hutu militia
members and 40,000 former Rwandan soldiers mixed in among the civilians who fled
their country in 1994. Any relief and repatriation would have to deal with the
presence of these guerrillas and soldiers as well as with the murderous anger
between Rwandan Hutus and the now-dominant Rwandan Tutsis.

American conditions: While President Clinton called American participation in
the relief effort "vital," he set a series of stringent conditions that must be
met before American troops would participate, including:

Local governments and forces now fighting must agree to the peaceful entry of
United Nations troops.

The U.S. forces will not attempt to disarm militias or other fighting forces and
will be prepared to respond violently in the event of attack under "very robust
rules of engagement."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See related story on page 1A

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              750 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 14, 1996

MISSION TO SAVE MILLION LIVES;
Clinton agrees to send US troops into Zaire as part of multinational force.
Britain may send 3,500 soldiers to join relief drive

BYLINE: Martin Walker In Washington Ian Black In London And John Palmer In
Brussels

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1627 words


PRESIDENT Bill Clinton yesterday agreed, under intense international pressure,
to send United States troops to Zaire as part of a multinational force under
overall Canadian command, with neither its precise objectives nor rules of
engagement clearly defined.

Britain followed suit by saying it was ready to contribute "constructively" to
the international effort, "providing a satisfactory plan can be worked out" for
dealing with an unprecedented humanitarian relief mission to more than a million
refugees caught up in fighting by Tutsi rebels in Zaire.

John Major said later: "We will contribute, we will definitely send troops." But
he said their number, the scope of the mission and its "exit strategy" were yet
to be decided.

The Foreign Secretary, Malcolm Rifkind, said: "The United Kingdom is prepared to
play its part, including a military contribution, to help deal with the
humanitarian aid, to get food, medical aid and shelter to the refugees."

If crucial issues can be resolved at a meeting of potential contributors at the
United Nations in New York today, thousands of troops from north America, Europe
and African countries could be heading for the Great Lakes region of central
Africa by the end of this week.

The rapid deterioration of conditions in Zaire has led to chaotic military
planning.  As the standby orders went out last night from the Pentagon, which is
to send up to 5,000 troops - 1,000 into Zaire and the rest in logistical and
support roles - commanders were still uncertain of their brief.  The defence
department said the mission would not exceed four months.

The Defence Secretary, William Perry, said: "Our mission will be to secure Goma
airport (in eastern Zaire), and then open and secure a (three-mile) land
corridor to the main refugee area, to bring food and medical relief to this
terrible humanitarian tragedy."

The White House spokesman, Mike McCurry, insisted yesterday: "The mission is not
to disarm militants, nor to conduct any forced entry into the area, nor to
police refugee camps."

But commanders wondered whether they would have to impose a local ceasefire and
establish and police a humanitarian zone.  Some basic aims of the mission are
not yet agreed, such as whether the troops will shepherd refugees back into
Rwanda, or deeper into Zaire.

Rwanda's president, Pasteur Bizimungu, warned yesterday that intervention would
get "messy" unless rebels in control of eastern Zaire were consulted.

US ambivalence about the UN and multinational operations means Mr Clinton's
decision carries huge political risks. It could end the post-election honeymoon
with the Republican Congress.  Haunted by the humanitarian mission to Somalia,
which veered out of control in his first months in office, Mr Clinton was talked
into the mission by Canada's prime minister, Jean Chretien.

After a long night of negotiations in the Pentagon, General Maurice Baril, the
commander of Canadian ground forces, secured a rare agreement by Washington
early yesterday to put its forces under Canadian operational command. They will
remain under US tactical command.

But the US insisted on "robust" rules of engagement. They will be allowed not
only to defend themselves, but to patrol aggressively to ensure they are not
attacked.

The logistical challenge of flying in troops and equipment, and food and
medicine for a million refugees, into an area with few roads and dilapidated
airfields - where cholera vies with Aids as a health hazard for the troops -
"will make Somalia look like a tea party", one Pentagon officer told the
Guardian yesterday. "We are looking at literally hundreds of C-5 (carg o plane)
airlifts," he added.

"Every second counts," Emma Bonino, the European Union's humanitarian aid
commissioner, told the European Parliament yesterday. "If it (the mission)
arrives in three weeks, it will have a lot of work burying corpses, but not much
else."

The mission is to be tripartite. There will be a north American contingent of
some 1,500 Canadian troops and two US logistics and communications battalions,
protected by US paratroops.

The European contingent is expected to have British, French and Spanish troops,
with the Netherlands and Belgium providing logistical support. Although no
British units have yet been placed on standby, the most likely option is a light
brigade of about 3,500 troops, drawn primarily from 45 Commando Royal Marines
and the 1st Battalion The Parachute Regiment.

France said yesterday it was prepared to send 600 paratroopers to Zaire within
24 hours of UN approval of the mission, and 600 more a day later. It is also
making available its bases in west and central Africa.

The WEU, still embryonic as the eventual European pillar of Nato, will undergo
its first big test when officials meet in Belgium on Monday to co-ordinate.

European countries are expected to foot the bulk of the bill and provide
equipment and training for the African contingent, whose participation is seen
as essential politically. The main local contingent will be South African, with
token units expected from Mali, Ethiopia, Cameroon, Senegal, Eritrea and Congo.

The UN Security Council was planning a special session last night to give a
formal mandate to the effort, not as a Nato mission, but as an unprecedented
"multinational force under Canadian command".

US officials told the Guardian they expected their part of the mission to be
"very limited in time, to establish the conditions in which the African
countries will be able to take over on the ground and create the space for a
longer-term political settlement".

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              751 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                          November 14, 1996, Thursday

Refugees, go home Zaire leader changes tack, says Rwandans must leave

LENGTH: 441 words


PRESIDENT Mobutu Sese Seko has thrown his weight behind moves to send home more
than a million Hutu refugees caught at the centre of warfare in east Zaire.

Canada stepped forward yesterday to lead a planned multinational force to secure
food aid and passage for the refugees scattered by three weeks of violence in
eastern Zaire.

But judging by the firm statement by Mobutu, until now the protector of ethnic
Hutu refugees who fear revenge at home for a massacre of the rival Tutsis, the
intervention force's main task will be providing safe conduct back to Rwanda for
the refugees.

"The refugees are the source of many problems," Mobutu told a television
interviewer in France where he is convalescing after cancer surgery. So everyone
should go home and each government take the responsibility of looking after its
citizens." Most of the Hutus are Rwandans who fled after the 1994 massacre of up
to a million Tutsis or their sympathisers. Some are Hutus from Burundi who fled
massacres in their own homeland.

The governments of Rwanda and Burundi, both led by Tutsis, as well as the Zaire
authorities, want the Hutus back in their countries. So do ethnic Tutsi rebels
who have seized Zaire's two eastern provinces where refugee camps were located.

Many of the refugees also say they want to go home but that they are being
prevented by armed Hutu hardliners, most of them former Rwandan soldiers who led
the 1994 genocide of the Tutsis.

Hardline Hutus, apparently using refugees as human shields, are battling ethnic
Tutsis around Mugunga camp near Goma. The situation in the camp has been unclear
since the Tutsis defeated the Zaire army in recent fighting.

Most of 1.2 million camp refugees and hundreds of thousands of Zairean villagers
fled into the jungle where aid workers say thousands could die of hunger or
disease.

Canada said yesterday it had agreed to lead a multinational military force to
take aid to the refugees but details of the operation were still being worked
out.

Canada told officials at the United Nations it needs more than 10,000 troops for
the operation, which it expects to last four to six months, UN spokeswoman
Sylvana Foa said. After that time any mission, if needed, would be under a UN
flag.

Among the countries that have expressed a willingness to join the force are
France, Spain, Italy, South Africa, Ethiopia and Mali. Still key to the
operation are anticipated responses from the United States and Britain before
the UN Security Council formally approves the operation.

UN Secretary-General Boutros Boutros Ghali said that he expected more than 12
countries to participate.

Reuter

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: MER

                   Copyright 1996 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              752 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 13, 1996

US STALLS ACTION TO HELP REFUGEES;
International force for Zaire

BYLINE: Martin Walker In Washington

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1160 words


THE United States, distracted by cabinet reshuffles and its attempt to unseat
the United Nations secretary-general, Boutros Boutros-Ghali, was being dragged
slowly and unwillingly yesterday into giving token logistical support to a
Canadian-led international force for the refugee disaster in Zaire.

American foot-dragging threatened to prevent swift and serious action, as it did
two years ago. US officials were stalling on the grounds that there was no clear
military goal: was the force intended to safeguard humanitarian convoys, push
refugees back into Rwanda, or send them back into their old camps in Zaire?

Canada's agreement to lead a multinational force, and the reluctant acceptance
by the Rwandan government of a modest French component, has made some kind of
intervention likely.

But the basics of the operation - such as the number of troops, the kind of
mandate needed, and how to finance it - are uncertain, victim of the confusion
which surrounds all such UN ventures while America remains so deeply ambivalent
about them.

"There is no coherent plan, rather four or five proposals running together," the
state department spokesman Nicholas Burns said.

The US says the refugees should be encouraged to return to Rwanda rather than be
herded back to the overstrained camps in Zaire.

But Mr Burns was careful not to rule out some American involvement in tackling
"this terrible humanitarian tragedy".

Canada was taking the lead in planning the intervention yesterday, consulting
Britain, France, the US and other interested powers.

But no meeting was scheduled at the UN in New York, where Mr Boutros-Ghali was
hoping that a successful international effort could strengthen his case for
staying in office for a second term, despite US threats of a veto to exclude
him.

Canadian officials hoped that a "firm decision to proceed" could be reached this
week. They have offered a specially-trained force of 1,200 lightly armed troops
with its own logistic, medical and communications facilities as the keystone of
the effort.

Earlier offers from France and Spain to provide troops were stalled by Rwanda's
initial refusal to accept French forces, seen as partial to Zaire.

UN rules require the interventions' formal approval by the governments of Rwanda
and Zaire, even though Zaire's authority has broken down in the eastern region.

Britain, which was discussing the intervention with Canada yesterday, says it
will contribute, but no decision has been taken whether this will comprise
troops, logistic support, or emergency finance.

Ironically, the Zaire crisis seems tailor-made for the proposals floated last
month by the US secretary of state, Warren Christopher, for an "African Crisis
Response Force" with troops from African countries and financial assistance from
richer countries, including the US.

But it may have come too soon for such an effort, which provoked criticism from
the Republican-run Congress as a dangerously open-ended financial commitment
which might draw the US into other unwise interventions, as in Somalia.

The US, increasingly unpopular at the UN, was voted off an important budgetary
committee this week.

Senator Jesse Helms, just re-elected to resume his chairmanship of the foreign
relations committee, described it as "an outrage against the country which foots
the bills".

* Hundreds of Zairean soldiers who deserted when rebels drove them out of Goma
have been arrested near Kinshasa after an odyssey on hijacked barges down the
River Zaire.

A Zairean military officer said that most of the deserters, who numbered more
than 600, had been held since Friday in Maluku, which merges with the capital's
outer suburbs. They would appear before a military tribunal.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              753 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  November 13, 1996, Wednesday, Final Edition

U.S. Sends Team to Central Africa; International Force to Aid Rwandan Refugees
Being Considered

Thomas W. Lippman, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1037 words


The Pentagon dispatched a 40-member team to Central Africa yesterday to assess
supply and security needs as Clinton administration officials said the United
States is likely to participate in an international military rescue mission to
aid Rwandan refugees in Zaire.

Senior officials said, however, that no U.S. forces would be committed to such
an effort until crucial questions have been answered about how a force would be
organized, who would lead it and what its objectives would be.

Under growing pressure from France, Canada and the United Nations to make a
commitment to a mission to aid an estimated 1.1 million Rwandans in need of food
and shelter, U.S. officials said they are not going to be stampeded into an
operation that could blow up in their faces.

Nevertheless, U.S. officials stepped up planning for possible U.S. participation
in a relief effort. A team from the U.S. Agency for International Development is
attempting to cross into Zaire from Rwanda, the State Department said.

The Defense Department's announcement that an assessment team will be flown to
Central Africa from Italy today said that "this deployment will enhance the
military's ability to respond but does not represent a commitment by the U.S. to
deploy other forces."

U.S. officials made little effort to disguise their irritation with France,
which made a plea for an international force last week. In the American view,
Paris did so without providing a credible deployment plan in a transparent
effort to ingratiate itself with Africa at U.S. expense.

Canada, which has offered to lead a humanitarian mission and provide troops for
it, sent a senior-level delegation here yesterday to discuss the proposed
intervention with White House national security adviser Anthony Lake and other
senior U.S. officials.

The United States agrees that such a mission is probably necessary, U.S.
officials said, adding that if it takes place America should participate. The
international community has a humanitarian obligation to help in such a dire
situation, and the United States has the kind of transport planes, generators,
water purifying units and other necessary equipment, officials said.

But one official who was briefed on the talks said Washington is taking the
position that "we are not prepared to go to Congress and the American people
with a plan that is not fully thought out, without agreement on rules of
engagement or force capability. We will not haphazardly throw U.S. troops into
such a volatile situation."

As they have throughout the past week, U.S. officials stressed the complexity of
the situation in eastern Zaire. It is true that hundreds of thousands of people
probably need help, U.S. officials said, but at the same time the circumstances
on the ground make it difficult to provide that aid without risking an armed
conflict with Rwandan militias.

"You can't simply, you know, air drop C-rations or MREs [meals ready to eat], as
they're called, in there and hope it all gets solved," State Department
spokesman Glyn Davies said. "We can't simply go in there without a plan for
dealing with repatriation" of the Rwandan refugees to their home country.

Most of the refugees in Zaire are Hutus who fled Rwanda after the genocidal
conflict there in 1994. Rwanda now is controlled by the rival Tutsi tribal
group, which drove out the Hutus after suffering hundreds of thousands of deaths
in the 1994 fighting. The refugees recently fled their camps along the
Zaire-Rwanda border when a Zairian Tutsi group, facing expulsion from Zaire,
began attacking the Zairian army units in the area.

The U.S. position, shared by the Rwandan government, is that any plan to aid the
refugees must include their return to Rwanda.

According to several U.S. officials, the biggest obstacle to deploying a relief
mission is that the refugees remain largely under the control of former Rwandan
officials and Hutu militia leaders who perpetrated the mass killings in 1994.
Those Rwandans do not wish to return home because they fear reprisal or
prosecution, and they have persuaded or intimidated the refugees, who have been
their meal ticket for the past two years, to stay with them.

Rwandan Ambassador Theogene Rudasingwa said here yesterday that his country,
like the United States, opposes any rescue mission that simply returns the
refugees to their former camps, which the Hutu militias had used as bases to
harass Rwanda.

"An international neutral force of intervention should have a clear mandate for
neutralizing these [Hutu] forces," he said at a forum at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies. Otherwise, he said, "the government of
Rwanda is willing and ready to undertake to liberate Rwandese refugees from
these [Hutu] criminals."

In light of the possibility of further violence, U.S. officials said, Washington
wants to know exactly what an international force would be expected to do and
where, what its exit strategy would be, how the legitimate refugees would be
separated from their militia bosses, and who would pay for the African military
units envisioned in the Canadian plan.

Estimates of how long it would take to resolve these issues firmly enough to
take the matter to President Clinton ranged from 24 hours to several days. With
a decision pending on extending the U.S. peacekeeping commitment in Bosnia,
officials said, the administration does not want to embark on a mission in
Africa that would evoke memories of the 1993 Somalia debacle.

Canada's offer to lead a relief mission came after Prime Minister Jean Chretien
spent the weekend telephoning leaders in Europe, Africa and the United States to
gauge support.

He said the country has received commitments from 10 nations to participate, and
from that should be able to assemble the up to 10,000 troops needed for a
strictly "humanitarian" effort.

Canada itself would commit up to 1,500 troops, including a newly formed Disaster
Assistance Response Team that could deliver military physicians, engineers and
communications experts to Africa within 48 hours.

Correspondent Howard Schneider in Toronto and staff writer Peter Baker in
Washington contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, afp/thomas coex

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


                              754 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           November 12, 1996 Tuesday

Canada offers to lead aid force  South Africa also willing to commit troops for
humanitarian relief mission

BYLINE: BY JEFF SALLOT The Globe and Mail

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 639 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


Canada is offering to lead an international military force to help deliver food
and other humanitarian assistance to hundreds of thousands of starving refugees
in Central Africa, aides to Prime Minister Jean Chrétien said last night.

The United Nations Security Council is to meet today to consider the Canadian
offer and also that of South African President Nelson Mandela to provide
additional troops for the mission.

The United States, a key player because of its ability to provide military air
transport and other logistical support for such a mission, has yet to make a
decision on committing U.S. troops. General John Shalikashvili, chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, told CNN, "Obviously, before you commit troops you have
to understand very clearly what their tasks should be, whether they are really
the right solution."

France, which has been spearheading efforts to create a multinational force,
says it is ready to contribute 1,000 troops, but insists the force of about
5,000 men must be made up of U.S. and African troops as well as European
contingents. Rwanda has objected to French intervention.

Canada has pledged to send a special 180-member Canadian Forces team as the
vanguard unit for a larger UN force.

Known as the Disaster Assistance Response Team, the lightly armed mobile unit
would include officers experienced in UN peacekeeping missions, communications
officers, a field hospital capable of treating 500 people a day and a complete
water-purification system that could be set up in the jungles of Central Africa.

Mr. Chrétien has been on the phone to about 15 other world leaders over the
Remembrance Day weekend trying to muster support for a multilateral humanitarian
relief mission for the refugees caught in the crossfire between rival military
forces near the Zaire-Rwanda border.

"The Prime Minister has been concerned about this situation for about 10 days,
and when it appeared that nobody was going to do anything about it, he started
making phone calls," an aide to Mr. Chrétien said.

Canada offered the DART team or "whatever else we can to get this thing moving,"
the aide said.

The Prime Minister's nephew, Raymond Chrétien, the Canadian ambassador to
Washington, is on a special mission to Central Africa for UN Secretary-General
Boutros Boutros-Ghali to see whether the world body can secure safe transit of
food and medicine to the refugees who have been wandering the jungles of eastern
Zaire.

Relief agencies, frustrated by their inability to get food and medicine into
eastern Zaire, say thousands of refugees are days away from starvation and there
is great risk of a deadly cholera epidemic because of poor sanitation.

A UN force could secure corridors across the border so that relief supplies
could move by road west into Zaire and so that Hutu refugees could return to
their homeland in Rwanda.

Thousands of Rwandans fled their country after the 1994 slaughter of more than
half a million people in one of Africa's worst ethnic clashes.

DART teams are prepared to move within 48 hours of a go-ahead order. They were
established after the Rwandan crisis when a small UN contingent led by Canadian
Major-General Roméo Dallaire was unable to get tons of food and medicine to
civilians caught in the crossfire.

DART teams generally are not combat forces -- they carry only sidearms for
personal protection -- and are intended to deal with a variety of disasters,
including floods and hurricanes. They are highly mobile and can be deployed
anywhere in Canada or around the world.

They come equipped with enough food and water to sustain themselves in the field
for 10 days and to remain in the field for another 30 days with fresh supplies
flown in by giant C-130 transport planes. The government has allocated enough
money from the defence budget to mount three DART missions a year.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1996 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              755 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           November 9, 1996 Saturday

Western powers wary of Africa intervention  Previous debacles, lack of economic
or security interests slow response to refugee crisis

BYLINE: BY PAUL KNOX The Globe and Mail

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 1079 words


Fresh news of starvation and atrocities in eastern Zaire has provoked a
worldwide clamour for swift action to prevent hundreds of thousands of deaths.

Africans and Western aid workers -- those closest to the impending disaster --
are begging for foreign troops to let them reach sick and dying refugees.

But it took Western powers more than a week to begin grappling seriously with
the issue, and it was only yesterday that United Nations Secretary-General
Boutros Boutros-Ghali implored them to agree on such a force.

Beneath the diplomatic logjam lay a basic truth: The nations of Europe and North
America have a history of disastrous interventions in Africa.

They are wary of mounting another when detailed knowledge is sketchy, on a
continent where nothing seems to work.

The region poses no immediate security threat to any of them. The economic
interests that sometimes compel decisive action are lacking.

Thus the fate of more than a million mainly Hutu refugees, fleeing fighting
between mainly Tutsi rebels and the Zairian army, remains uncertain.

And the goal of persuading them to return to Rwanda, shared in theory by Western
and African governments, seems as remote as ever.

This is a guide to key countries outside the crisis region:
 France  France has pushed hardest to send a multinational military force.
Initially, it proposed French and U.S. troops, although its latest Security
Council resolution did not specify the makeup.

Yet France is perceived as irredeemably biased toward the Hutus.

It championed the former Hutu-dominated government of Rwanda, which was ousted
by Tutsis after the 1994 slaughter of half a million Tutsis and moderate Hutus
by Hutu militants.

French troops fostered the exodus of Hutus to Zaire in 1994. In the view of
many, they allowed Hutu war criminals to escape.

France, a major colonial power in Africa, wields economic influence and
frequently stations troops in its former possessions. Its interest extends to
the former Belgian colonies -- Zaire, Rwanda and Burundi.

Its economic interest centres on Zaire, which is rich in mineral resources but
chaotically administered. French firms are reportedly interested in acquiring
the state-owned mining conglomerate.

"But we also think France is interested in the power Zaire can exercise in
Africa and in the francophone world," said Denis Tougas of the Montreal aid
agency Entraide Missionaire.
 United States U.S. officials say African problems are best solved by Africans,
and no wonder. They are still haunted by the humiliation inflicted on U.S.
troops by Somali warlords in 1992.

"The United States doesn't want another ham-handed Western effort," said Linda
Freeman, a political scientist and Africa specialist at Carleton University in
Ottawa.

State Department officials say Washington is considering offering logistical
support for an intervention force.

"Further instability in the region has terrible implications for [neighbouring]
countries," said one U.S. official, who asked not to be identified. "And we
consider stability there to be in our national interest."

But the official also said the United States wants the refugees repatriated, not
returned to "reconstituted" camps in Zaire -- where they were influenced by Hutu
militias, who exhorted them not to return home.

That raises key questions about plans to intervene.

It would seem inhuman to withhold food and medicine from the refugees in Zaire.
But if they can get relief in Zaire, why should they go back to Rwanda?

The militants among them, many of whom helped slaughter Tutsis before fleeing to
Zaire, fear they will finally be brought to justice. And even those who are not
implicated fear reprisals.

As France is considered partial to the Hutu cause, so the United States appears
closer to the current Tutsi-dominated Rwandan government.

U.S. officials say Rwanda has welcomed the relatively few Hutus who have
returned. But others are skeptical, noting that Tutsis have taken land and jobs
that formerly belonged to Hutus.
South Africa  After decades of isolation under apartheid, South Africa is
beginning to emerge as an important player in African affairs.

Some of its biggest companies are gold and diamond producers, interested along
with French firms in the privatization of Zaire's state-owned mining
conglomerate.

Like France, South Africa is accused of partisanship. It has provided weapons to
the Rwandan government on the grounds that they are needed for self-defence.

Contributions to a force for Zaire are more likely to come from other African
nations, such as Botswana, Zimbabwe, Zambia and Kenya.
 Belgium  Belgian businesses still have close ties with Zaire, Rwanda and
Burundi, but Belgium's influence is overshadowed by that of France.

Belgians are also likely to be ambivalent about further military involvement in
central Africa. Many Belgians were outraged over the deaths of 10 Belgian
commandos serving with a UN force in Rwanda in 1994.

The soldiers were under the command of Canadian Major-General Roméo Dallaire. He
has been pilloried in the Belgian media, which say he failed to come to the aid
of the commandos while they were under attack by Hutu extremists.
 Europe  Spain supported France's initial proposal for a multinational force,
but other countries were decidedly lukewarm.

Britain, Portugal, Italy and Germany, all former colonial powers in Africa,
failed to endorse the French plan at a meeting of European Union development
ministers on Thursday, even after France accused the international community of
being "spineless."

The crude truth is that many European governments see Africa as a basket case
with little potential for short-term economic growth.

They are particularly reluctant to allow African access to European markets,
Prof. Freeman said. "Europe is playing such hardball in Africa now, it's
breathtaking."
 Canada  Canada's economic ties to Africa also are not extensive. But private
Canadian aid agencies -- particularly those based in Quebec -- have long-time
experience in Rwanda, Burundi and Zaire.

The federal government is always keen to demonstrate concern about the
francophone world, which may bolster its arguments against Quebec
sovereigntists.

Foreign Affairs Minister Lloyd Axworthy has called for a ceasefire and urged
Rwanda to "do whatever is necessary" to encourage Rwandan refugees to return.

Like the United States, Canada would prefer to give logistical and technical
support to a mainly African force for eastern Zaire.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1996 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              756 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                    November 6, 1996 Wednesday Final Edition

UN urged to send force into Zaire: But Zairians boycott talks until Rwandans
leave their territory

SOURCE: Spectator Wire Services

SECTION: CANADA & WORLD; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 544 words

DATELINE: NAIROBI


African leaders urged the United Nations Security Council yesterday to rapidly
deploy a "neutral force" in eastern Zaire to help 1.2 million Hutu refugees
facing famine and epidemics.

At a summit in Nairobi, capital of nearby Kenya, seven east and central African
leaders said the force should create safe corridors to repatriate refugees to
Rwanda and Burundi and provide temporary sanctuary for the huge mass of people.

The leaders called for an immediate ceasefire in fighting between Zaire's
ramshackle army and ethnic Tutsi rebels who have captured parts of eastern Zaire
and its main towns.

The leaders of Kenya, Tanzania, Ethiopia, Uganda, Rwanda, Zambia, Eritrea and
the foreign minister of Cameroon attended the Nairobi summit. But Zaire
boycotted the meeting, saying it will not attend such talks until foreign troops
-- a reference to Rwanda -- leave its territory.

The summit outcome clearly passed the ball back to the world's powerful
countries, the permanent members of the UN Security Council, and told them to
organize a military intervention.

As they met, Raymond Chretien, Canada's ambassador to the United States,
prepared to travel to France where he planned to meet Zairian President Mobutu
Sese Seko today. Last week, the United Nations appointed Mr. Chretien as special
envoy to try to solve the crisis in central Africa.

Mr. Mobutu is at his villa in Nice after three months of prostate cancer
treatment in Switzerland. His spokesman Kabuya Lumuna says he will stay a while
in France, then return home.

The difficulty of sorting out the crisis was obvious when leaders at the Nairobi
summit said bona fide refugees should be separated from "intimidators" --
thousands of former Rwandan government soldiers and militiamen mainly
responsible for killing about half a million of Rwanda's minority Tutsis and
moderate Hutus in 1994.

Those armed men fled Rwanda with civilians, mainly to Zaire, after the genocide
when the mainly Tutsi rebels took power in Rwanda.

Most Hutu refugees refuse to go home, saying they would rather die. Rwanda's
jails already hold over 80,000 Hutu genocide suspects and many of the refugees
have blood on their hands.

With each passing day, less is known of the whereabouts of the refugees, now
without any UN protection or support since fighting forced the last
international aid workers out of Zaire on Saturday.

The rebel Tutsis declared a unilateral three-week ceasefire Monday to allow the
refugees safe passage home.

Andre Kissase Ngandu, leader of the rebels in Goma, said their goal is to "free
all of Zaire. . . .Mobutu is finished. Politically, he is finished."

Valentine Moboya, a political science student, said Mr. Mobutu, "ruined the
country. Zaire was once prosperous, but now it is very poor."

In eastern Zaire, a Canadian nun and eight other people earlier reported to have
been taken hostage are safe, the Belgian Foreign Ministry said yesterday. "They
are safe and out of the combat zone (and) it is not clear if they were taken
hostage or not," a foreign ministry spokesman said.

The political atmosphere in the Zairian capital Kinshasa remained tense
yesterday as hundreds of people, defying a ban on anti-Rwanda demonstrations,
set up roadblocks and hijacked cars.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chretien Photo:; AP / Protesters defying a ban on demonstrations
threw stones yesterday at Zairian soldiers.

TYPE: News

                    Copyright 1996 Metroland Media Group Ltd


                              757 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            November 5, 1996 Tuesday

Containing the calamity in Africa

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 634 words


PREDICTABLY, the elements of emerging calamity in Central Africa are falling
into place: an army of hungry, nomadic refugees; smouldering ethnic rivalries; a
clutch of unstable governments, one of them led by an absentee autocrat; fragile
national boundaries; a legacy of genocide in the region; and, of course, a
weary, indifferent international community.

Can things get worse at the heart of this misbegotten continent? Absolutely. Can
the world do anything about it? Perhaps, on the margins, if it has the will,
which is no certainty at all.

The reluctance to act decisively in the face of another humanitarian catastrophe
like the one in Rwanda in 1994 lies in the place itself. The reality is that the
world has abandoned Africa, in which it had once invested so much hope.
Frustrated by its inability to raise living standards, weary of sustaining
corrupt dictatorships, the West long ago left Africa for Asia and Latin America.
It continues to send food and aid but has given up on trade and commerce. As the
presence of the international community has declined, so has its influence.

All of which makes it that harder to intervene effectively in a crisis such as
the one now unfolding in Rwanda and Zaire. As the Tutsi leaders of Rwanda sow
rebellion among their kinsmen in eastern Zaire, they are making incursions
across the border. The Rwandans are angry that the Hutu guerrillas have used
refugee camps in Zaire to strike against the Tutsi governments in Rwanda and
Burundi. They think Zaire has aided those refugees, and threaten to annex its
territory, which could spark a war engulfing Angola, Uganda and Tanzania.

The world has watched the situation disintegrate, its options limited by the
usual and arguable reluctance to become involved in tribal warfare in Africa.
That notwithstanding, here is what the world might do:

Offer its good offices. This the United Nations has already done. The
Secretary-General has sent Canada's Raymond Chrétien as his special mediator to
Africa to negotiate a ceasefire. Unfortunately, Mr. Chrétien will not arrive
until next week. He knows all the players and might be able to begin talks. To
be effective, however, Mr. Chrétien will have to convince leaders to stop
supporting their neighbour's insurgency movements.

Create safe havens. In the absence of a ceasefire, the UN should create safe
havens for refugees in eastern Zaire, as well as establish corridors from Uganda
through Rwanda. This will take either UN troops, which members are unlikely to
send, or the soldiers of the Organization of African Unity, which has been
traditionally impotent (although Kenya and Senegal have UN peacekeeping
experience).

Stop arms shipments. The flow of small arms into the region made in Israel,
Russia, Romania, France and the United States continues. Amnesty International
charges that exiled Rwandan soldiers are obtaining arms and training in or near
refugee camps, despite the UN arms embargo. Had the UN disarmed these elements
in the camps earlier, this threat would be less serious.

Threaten to withhold money. Rwanda, Burundi and Zaire need aid and loans to
survive. Foreign exchange matters to them. The world, acting collectively,
should threaten to cut off all aid if the combatants refuse to negotiate.

Offer money.The region badly needs help to rebuild its shattered economy and
political institutions. The offer of a generous international rescue package for
resettlement and redevelopment might ease the competition for resources that
fuels these conflicts.

To act on any of these choices, none of which assures success, the world will
have to find the will. It isn't there now, and may not be until a Biblical
exodus of hungry and homeless marches across the television screens of Europe
and North America. By then, of course, it may be too late.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1996 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              758 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

               November 5, 1996, Tuesday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

TUTSI REBELS ANNOUNCE CEASE-FIRE IN EAST ZAIRE; HUTU REFUGEES ALLOWED TO RETURN
TO HOMES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 393 words

DATELINE: KIGALI, RWANDA


With the international community threatening to intervene, Zairian Tutsi rebels
declared a cease-fire Monday in eastern Zaire and agreed to allow aid agencies
to try to get Hutu refugees home to Burundi and Rwanda.

Fighting between Tutsi-led rebels and Zairian troops has forced hundreds of
thousands of refugees to flee from their U.N. camps, venturing deeper into Zaire
and farther from aid workers. Diplomats and aid groups met Monday in two African
capitals to discuss what to do next.

The recent cross-border warfare began three weeks ago, choking off road and air
routes for emergency food into the region and pushing aid workers last week to
evacuate.

Laurent Kabila, the rebel leader, said his fighters would observe a three-week
cease-fire to allow 1.1 million Rwandan and Burundian Hutu refugees to return
home.

But the rebels warned that war would resume unless Zaire's army abided by the
truce - a tall order for the Kinshasa government, which has vowed to recapture a
string of towns and cities.

In Rwanda, reports said that Goma, the capital of eastern Zaire, was quiet after
four days of gun and mortar fire.

The Hutu refugees followed their defeated army into exile in July 1994 after
Rwanda's former Hutu extremist government slaughtered at least 500, 000 people,
mostly Tutsis.

The Hutus have refused to return, fearing reprisals for the genocide. In the
last few weeks, rebels have overrun the camps where the Hutus live north and
south of Lake Kivu.

French Foreign Minister Herve de Charette urged European nations, the United
States, Canada and the Organization of African Unity to meet immediately and
"organize the possible means to temporarily secure" eastern Zaire to feed the
refugees. Charette did not specify what measures he was suggesting.

The global community swiftly mobilized to try to take advantage of the promised
cease-fire.

The U.S. ambassador to Rwanda, Robert Gribbins, endorsed the idea of a
humanitarian corridor to return refugees and agreed that no military force was
needed.

Regional foreign ministers were meeting Monday in Nairobi to prepare for a
summit meeting of east African leaders called by Kenyan President Daniel arap
Moi to tackle the crisis.

However, an adviser to Zaire's ailing president, Mobutu Sese Soko, said Zaire
would not take part in the summit meeting today.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo From AP - Rwandan refugees who fled the fighting in Zaire
wait at a transit camp on the border Monday for buses to take them to their
hometowns in Rwanda.

                  Copyright 1996 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              759 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                    November 10, 1995, Friday, ALL EDITIONS

Carter plans peace talks for Rwanda, Burundi;
Aim is to halt ethnic wars, aid refugees

BYLINE: J. Randal Ashley; FOREIGN EDITOR

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS, Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 528 words


Former President Jimmy Carter will convene five-party peace talks in Cairo,
Egypt, on Nov. 27 in an effort to stop the ethnic civil wars in Rwanda and
Burundi and return to their homes some 2 million refugees.

Hundreds of people are dying every day in Rwanda and Burundi in a human tragedy
that "is almost totally forgotten in the Western world," Carter said Thursday.

In a wide-ranging interview with nine journalists, the former president also
said that a Carter Center delegation will take part in monitoring Palestinian
elections in the West Bank and Gaza Strip on Jan. 20, 1996.

In a separate ceremony Thursday at the Carter Center in Atlanta, the former
president received the Great Cross of the Order of Vasco Nunez de Balboa from
Panamanian Foreign Minister Gabriel Lewis Galindo.

Panama will open exploratory talks with the Clinton administration Nov. 30 on
the possibility of maintaining a U.S. military presence in the Panama Canal Zone
after Panama assumes full control of the canal in the year 2000.

A proclamation by Panamanian President Ernesto Perez Balladares hailed Carter
for negotiating and securing ratification of the Panama Canal Treaties of 1977,
"documents which became a pillar in the new relations between the United States
and Latin America, relations inspired in the principles of justice,
understanding and mutual respect."

Carter secured agreement for negotiations with the leaders of Rwanda, Burundi,
Tanzania, Uganda and Zaire while they were attending the United Nations' 50th
anniversary celebration in October.

Carter said the plan for the Cairo conference was agreed on Thursday and that he
and his wife, Rosalynn, will travel to the Central African countries - sometimes
referred to as Africa's "Great Lakes" region - this month. An aide said they
will be in Rwanda on Nov. 19, Burundi on Nov. 20 and Zaire on Nov. 21.

The former president said his efforts "have the full support of U.N. Secretary
General Boutros Boutros-Ghali and President Clinton." Several previous efforts
to convene peace talks have failed. Rwanda and Burundi have separate struggles
between the majority Hutu people and the minority Tutsi people. The Tutsis now
control the governments and armies.

Last year, the Hutus of Rwanda launched a genocidal war against the Tutsis, with
both civilians and the army of the then-governing Hutus killing some 500,000
people. Eventually, a Tutsi army based along the border with Uganda defeated the
government army, and some 2 million Hutus fled the country. They now live in
refugee camps in eastern Zaire and northern Tanzania.

Many Hutus in the Zaire camps fear revenge attacks if they return to Rwanda, and
the Hutu army that lives among the refugees is launching cross-border attacks
into Rwanda, inviting reprisals.

Burundi had a similarly genocidal war earlier, and the conflict is continuing at
a somewhat lower level.

Carter said his first priority would be the refugees, "how to get them to go
back in an orderly fashion." He said he plans to work out with Zairian President
Mobutu Sese Seko and Rwanda's leaders a plan to get 50,000 to 60,000 refugees a
month to return home.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1995 The Atlanta Constitution


                              760 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 27, 1995

ENVIRONMENT: THE FIRST WAVE OF A HUMAN FLOOD;
The growing problem of environmental refugees is largely unrecognised QBY:
Norman Myers

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN ONLINE PAGE; Pg. T24

LENGTH: 2147 words


A COUPLE of weeks ago, headlines flashed the latest flood catastrophe in China,
which displaced between one and three million people and affected another 4.3
million. Yet these refugees are only a small part of a silent crisis that has
been building up in China for several years now. The government acknowledges
that there are at least 120 million peasants roaming around the interior,
landless and workless. Some six million of them can be considered to have been
driven from their homes by long-term environmental problems such as soil
erosion, deforestation, desertification and record droughts, all these problems
being aggravated by population pressures and poverty, leading to grand scale
land hunger and unemployment.

China's experience points up a new phenomenon: environmental refugees. They are
people who can no longer gain a secure livelihood in their homelands because of
a plethora of environmental ills. In their desperation, they feel they have no
alternative but to seek sanctuary elsewhere, however hazardous the attempt might
be.

There are at least 25 million environmental refugees. This compares with 23
million traditional refugees - people fleeing political oppression, religious
persecution and ethnic troubles. Thetotal number of environmental refugees is
expected to double by the year 2010, and to continue to increase as growing
numbers of impoverished people press ever harder on over-loaded environments.
When global warming takes hold, there could be as many as 200 million people
overtaken by sea-level rise and coastal flooding, by disruptions of monsoon
systems and other rainfall regimes, and by droughts of unprecedented severity
and duration.

Most environmental refugees are in the African Sahel, the Horn of Africa
including Sudan, other parts of sub-Saharan Africa, and Mexico and China.
Another one million people, displaced by public works projects such as large
dams, are scattered throughout developing countries.

The 25 million total amounts to one person in 225 worldwide. If a similar
proportion were applied to Britain, it would comprise one quarter of a million
people.

This estimate is conservative. Severe desertification threatens 135 million
people and chronic water shortages affect 550 million. While certain of these
are included in the 25 million, many could have been driven to migrate without
being counted as environmental refugees.

Of the extra one billion people projected to swell the global population during
the 1990s, a good proportion will be among communities with a cash income of $ 1
or less per day. They include those most likely to be struggling to survive in
environments too wet, too dry or too steep for sustainable agriculture. In sub
-Saharan Africa, these marginal environments may well need to support an extra
225 million people during the 1990s, and in India an extra 190 million.

POVERTY serves as an additional 'push' factor associated with the environmental
problems displacing people. Other factors include population pressures,
malnutrition, landlessness, unemployment, over- rapid urbanisation, pandemic
diseases and government shortcomings, together with ethnic strife and
conventional conflicts.

It is often difficult to differentiate between refugees driven by environmental
factors and those impelled by economic problems. In certain instances, people
with moderate though tolerable economic circumstances at home feel drawn by
opportunities for a better livelihood elsewhere. They are not so much pushed by
environmental deprivation as pulled by economic promise. This applies to many
Hispanics heading for the United States.

Those who migrate to escape outright poverty are often driven also by root
factors of environmental destitution. It is their environmental plight as much
as any other factor that makes them economically impoverished. This generally
applies to those refugees who migrate to areas where economic conditions are
little, if any, better than back home. With poverty and 'life on the
environmental limits' as the main motivating force, it matters little to the
migrants whether they view themselves as environmental or economic refugees.

On top of all this is the lack of official recognition, whether on the part of
governments or international agencies, that there is an environmental refugee
problem at all.

Global warming, which could threaten large numbers of people with displacement
by the middle of the next century, if not well before, will cause more problems.
Preliminary estimates indicate that the total number of people at risk from
sea-level rise in Bangladesh could be 26 million, in Egypt 12 million, in China
73 million, in India 20 million, and elsewhere, including small island states,
31 million - a total of 162 million. At the same time, at least 50 million
people could be at risk through increased droughts and other climate
dislocations.

The archetypal case is Haiti. Almost three-quarters of its 7.2 million people
depend directly on agriculture. Although only one third of all land is deemed
arable, over three-fifths is cultivated.  Widespread deforestation, as well as
over-loading of croplands and low-level agrotechnologies, has increased soil
erosion. Half of all farmlands are considered to be so eroded that they are
'unreclaimable', and in some localities much of the landscape has lost virtually
all its soil cover.

Per capita grain production is only a little over half what it was 40 years ago,
and many people consume no more than 80 per cent of an acceptable daily calorie
intake. Yet the present population is projected to reach almost 10 million by
2010, when their environments are likely to be even less able to support them.

All this is not to discount a number of adverse political and economic factors.
A series of corrupt and incompetent governments have been responsible for a
great deal of repression. But even if a democratic government was restored and
society and the economy became more egalitarian, there would still be
environmental problems aplenty to keep large numbers of Haitians in absolute
poverty.

As a consequence, at least 1.3 million Haitians have left their homelands. As
many as 300,000 have made their way to the United States (possibly twice as
many, including illegal immigrants), via a dangerous 950-kilometre boat trip to
the southern end of Florida. To support these arrivals, the Florida state
government has been investing more money than the federal government has been
allocating to foreign aid for Haiti or to environmental measures for the entire
Caribbean.

THE PROBLEM of environmental refugees ranks as one of the foremost human crises
of our times. To date, however, these people have been viewed as a peripheral
concern, a kind of aberration from the normal order of things, even though they
are an outward manifestation of profound deprivation and despair.

While the issue derives primarily from environmental problems, it generates
problems of political, social and economic sorts.  As such, it could become a
cause of turmoil and confrontation, leading to conflict and violence.

Could we eventually witness multitudes of desperate migrants heading from Africa
toward Europe, and from tropical Asia toward 'empty' Australia, from China
toward Siberia, and from Latin America toward North America? Indeed, the great
trek has already begun. Almost one million people make their illegal way across
the United States' southern border each year. Other nations are likely to be
little more able to control their borders than the Americans.

This all offers further reason to stem the crisis while we still have time. Yet
we hear next to nothing about environmental refugees. Few people, let alone
political leaders, have thought much about it.

One notable exception is the Home Affairs Minister in Italy, who recently
invited the writer to discuss the prospect - on the grounds that Italy will be
in the front line of a refugee influx across the Mediterranean. Britain is
further away, but hardly beyond reach. Or do we still think we live on an
island?

Dr Norman Myers is a visiting fellow at Green College, Oxford. His report on
environmental refugees has just been published by the Climate Institute in
Washington, DC

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              761 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 24, 1995, Monday, Final Edition

Ecology: 'Environmental Refugees' Identified

Li Xiguang

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg.  A02; SCIENCE: NOTEBOOK

LENGTH: 198 words


Spreading deserts, shrinking forests, soil erosion, drought and other
environmental problems have sent at least 25 million people fleeing their
homelands worldwide, a figure that could skyrocket to as high as 200 million in
the near future, international environmentalists have warned.

"Environmental refugees" -- mainly from Africa, Asia and Central America --
comprise 44 percent of all refugees in the world today, the Climate Institute
reported Wednesday in a study. However, this alarming migration could be slowed
if the United States and other industrialized countries provided more economic
rather than military assistance and reduced the heavy debt burden on developing
countries, researchers from the Climate Institute said.

"Considering that we don't have a cold war, the U.S. government must restructure
some of its foreign assistance rather than for military assistance," said John
Topping, president of the Climate Institute.

About $ 25 billion per year -- directed toward such programs as upgrading
agriculture, planting trees, cleaning water and primary education in developing
countries -- would result in many fewer environmental refugees, he noted.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


                              762 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                                  May 1, 1995

Documentary on women in crisis

BYLINE: By Muharyani Othman

SECTION: Woman; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1024 words


THE life of a refugee is one of want - for lost family members and
lifestyles, for the means to earn a living, and for a way to preserve
human dignity.

Few forms of physical and emotional impoverishment surpass this
situation of uprootedness. Women and children constitute the greatest
number of refugees, as they have survived precariously where their
husbands, brothers, sons and fathers have not.

The United Nations Development Fund for Women (Unifem) reports that in
order to highlight women's varied coping strategies in emergency and
crisis situations, its programme called African Women in Crisis (AFWIC)
recently launched Dignity: African Women in Crisis, a 30-minute
documentary film.

The documentary covers the situation of Liberian, Somali, Sudanese,
Ethiopean and Mozambican refugees and Eritrean returnees.

Unifem commissioned the film to bring awareness to the serious problems
and needs of refugees, displaced and returnee women. Released in New York
and Johannesburg at the end of 1994, the film is expected to raise money
for the ongoing Unifem umbrella programme, which promotes a gender-
sensitive and development-oriented response to emergencies in Africa.

The AFWIC was set up in 1993 to advocate a gender-sensitive approach to
emergency situations. Crises in Africa have resulted from civil wars,
environmental degradation and human rights abuses, all of which have
caused increasing uprootedness among the population.

More than 20 million people are refugees or internally displaced in 28
African countries, and up to 75 per cent of the refugees are women and
children. In addition, Unifem and the United Nations Commission for
Refugees have signed a memorandum of understanding to collaborate on
addressing these gender issues.

The most recent initiative by AFWIC, Support to Rwandan Women Refugees,
began last September to respond to the refugee crisis created in the wake
of the conflict in Rwanda. As part of a consolidated appeal arranged
through the UN Department of Humanitarian Affairs, the Unifem project
raised US$100,000 (RM250,000) from the Swedish International Development
Authority.

Unlike traditional emergency-relief assistance, the AFWIC programme
recognises the special needs of women living in crisis - for
gynaecological health care and mental-health counselling to address the
effects of sexual abuse and rape, pregnancy complications, poor sanitation
conditions in camps, and dislocation and loss of family, friends and
community support.

Women's health centres have been set up in the camps in Tanzania and
Zaire. Health education trainers identify and train women of the refugee
and local community to become health counsellors, who teach health
education and project health animators teach women about family planning
methods, personal hygiene and family-health practices.

Gender-sensitisation workshops meanwhile help relief agency personnel,
border guards and refugee leaders gain awareness of the differences in the
ways relief programmes affect men and women.

The project also encourages women refugees' full participation in
efforts to alleviate their problems by learning skills to become self-
sufficient and independent through income-generating activities.

This approach is aimed at having a sustainable effect as the displaced
women move from relief to rehabilitation and development phases of the
project.

Unifem's work with refugee women in Africa is only one in a long list of
activities it undertakes to improve the plight of women worldwide,
especially disadvantaged women.

In Latin America and the Caribbean, for instance, Unifem is supporting
concerned organisations working to improve the position of women household
workers.

Working 11 to 15 hours a day without contracts, often assaulted by male
members of the households in which they work and isolated from the support
of family members as well as colleagues, most household workers in Latin
America and the Caribbean are unprotected by legal safeguards and are
hindered from uniting to work for the rights they need and deserve.

The Confederation of Household Workers of Latin America and the
Caribbean (CONLACTRAHO) since 1988 has been supporting the efforts of
household workers in the region in their efforts for just and humane
working conditions and for recognition of the value of household labour.

A Unifem-funded project allows the organisation to coordinate leadership
training for union organising and share its experiences with women in
similar groups in Africa, Asia, Europe and North America.

According to the organisers, the nature of household work is not well
understood or documented by policy-makers. Yet efforts to study it have
been frustrated by the same barriers that arise when efforts are made to
form collective action groups.

Access to women who work alone in private homes is limited. Without
detailed knowledge about the lives and work of household workers, however,
policy-makers will not be able to assist them.

The CONLACTRAHO is attempting to correct this deficiency through its
training and research project, which is gathering accurate, complete data
on the plight of workers in 11 cities. Once completed, the study's
findings will be used to encourage the enactment of labour laws for
household workers.

Through its relations with the international women's movement,
CONLACTRAHO is connecting with household-worker organisations around the
world. It is encouraging these different NGOs to exchange ideas and share
strategies.

Recognising that the NGO Forum at the 4th World Conference on Women will
provide an outstanding opportunity for the organisation to enhance these
efforts, Unifem is sponsoring the participation of CONLACTRAHO.

The goal is to assist CONLACTRAHO as it seeks to increase the visibility
of household workers and to raise the consciousness of their societies.

It wants to impress upon them the fact that household work, whether
performed by a paid employee or by women who live in the house, is a
valuable service that should be equitably remunerated.


LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (STF) - Unifem has released a documentary film to highlight the plight
of refugees, and displaced and returnee women. It's to raise funds for the
promotion of gender-sensitive and development-oriented response to emergencies
in Africa, writes Muharyani Othman.  Picture - As survivors of trauma, women
refugees need to draw on their internal resources to rebuild their lives.

            Copyright 1995 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad


                              763 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 8, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

Cairo and Refugees' Rights

SECTION: OPINION EDITORIAL; PAGE A18

LENGTH: 395 words



FROM CAIRO comes another warning that the United States is departing a long way
from its historic principles in the Caribbean these days. When it uses its Navy
and Coast Guard to intercept desperate Cubans and Haitians fleeing from
repressive governments, it is violating their rights to asylum, as they have
been repeatedly expressed in international statements -- and as they are about
to be reaffirmed by the United Nations' International Conference on Population
and Development.

While the Cairo conference is predictably entangled in a vehement and important
dispute over birth control and abortion, that's only a small part of the program
that will emerge from it. The conference will have a lot to say about
development, and that includes political rights. It intends to issue a final
statement that -- in addition to the much-disputed language about reproductive
health care and family planning, and the declarations on environmentally sound
development and the rest -- will also note people's right to escape from cruel
and unjust governments.

The sentence in the proposed draft says: "Everyone has the right to seek and to
enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution." That language is taken from
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The Cairo draft goes on to reaffirm
the responsibilities of all countries with regard to refugees, as described in
the Geneva Convention.

The United States, like many other countries, found it easier to support this
kind of language during the Cold War, when it was a taunt to the communist
governments that kept their people penned up at gunpoint. Now, in a massive
irony, one of the last surviving communist regimes is no longer forcing its
people to stay at home, and the United States is anxiously protesting. It claims
that the refugees are not actually fleeing persecution, but that assertion grows
thinner as conditions in both Cuba and Haiti continue to deteriorate.

The Cairo conference's interests reach well beyond population policy. This
conference is essentially about human rights, and its declaration on refugees is
entirely fitting. Its statement of principles ought to make Americans think
again about a Caribbean policy that uses embargoes to make life intolerable in
two countries with bad governments, and then uses its sea power to intercept the
resulting flow of refugees.


LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              764 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 9, 1994, Tuesday, Final Edition

Playing Into Castro's Hands

Jay Taylor

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A19

LENGTH: 841 words


Of all the ironies in American foreign policy today, our course on Cuba is the
most paradoxical. Sharply deteriorating economic conditions have caused a surge
in the number of Cubans fleeing illegally to the United States. We do everything
we can unilaterally to worsen the economy and thus increase the flow. We also
directly encourage the exodus by granting Cubans who arrive illegally or who are
headed this way on the high seas resident status and resettlement assistance. At
the same time, we have unfilled immigration and political refugee quotas for
Cubans who wish to immigrate legally to the United States.

Even more incongruous is the scene at the U.S. Interests Section in Havana,
where each year tens of thousands of Cubans are refused visitors' visas to
America. There is a high rate of turn-downs because it is apparent that most of
the applicants are not bona-fide tourists: Their real intention is to remain in
the United States. These disappointed visa seekers -- or, for that matter, any
Cubans who by hook or by crook can get to Florida -- are automatically paroled
into the country. A few who have hijacked vessels or airplanes to get here have
been tried in U.S. courts, but, not surprisingly, none has been convicted.

When Fidel Castro tries to stop unhappy Cubans from fleeing his benighted land,
we accuse him of human rights abuse. But when he threatens to open the
floodgates if we continue to welcome unlimited numbers of undocumented Cubans,
including those who have committed violent acts in the course of their
departure, we warn of unspecified but ominous consequences. In 1980, when we
tangled with him on the issue of refugees, he took us to the cleaners, dumping
on Florida 120,000 Cubans he did not want -- a combination of those most unhappy
with the regime and thousands of prison and asylum inmates.

Should Castro declare another Mariel, it is not clear what chains we have left
to pull. We already have a full trade embargo except for "adequate
telecommunications" and humanitarian gifts. There would seem to be no way under
international law or politically within the United States to justify military
action against Cuba in such a situation. Latin America and most of the rest of
the world would almost certainly be appalled if we did any such thing. If we
closed down our office in Havana, we would be cutting off the flow of legal
immigration.

By stopping the travel of Cuban Americans to the island and the sending of
remittances, we could cut off an important source of foreign exchange for
Castro. But after a round of such reprisals, Florida would probably have
sustained more long-term damage than Cuba, and Castro could be perceived at home
and abroad as having again taken our pants.

Of course, things are much worse in Cuba today than in 1980. Thus another Mariel
could get out of hand and lead to widespread unrest. This is presumably what
some people in Miami are hoping for. But events of the past few days have shown
not only that there is great discontent in Cuba but also that Castro is
determined to resist any effort to unseat him. Furthermore, it is apparent that
he still has a disciplined military and police force, as well as a core of
support in the population -- perhaps 20 to 30 percent. It is also useful to
remember that Castro, unlike Nicolae Ceausescu, Raoul Cedras or even Kim Il
Sung, has strong nationalist credentials. He is probably more popular now in
South Africa and Mexico than in Cuba, but his historical authority is still an
asset in holding on.

In a purely rational world, we would end the refugee imbroglio by taking the
necessary legislative steps to terminate the incongruous policy of granting
residence status to almost any undocumented Cuban who arrives illegally. Given
the political realities, this is not likely to happen in the near future. The
administration, however, would be able to bear the domestic cost of seeking to
negotiate with the Cuban government a new and extensive refugee program, with
processing in Cuba by U.S. immigration officers. Some Miami leaders might even
support such an approach. Under this arrangement, most Cuban rafters and other
illegals would still be paroled into the United States, but we would deny parole
to those who committed violent crimes or who skyjacked in the course of their
departure.

Castro would probably be willing to carry out such an accord, as he has since
1987 with the Mariel Migration Agreement, which included a procedure for
interviewing current and past political prisoners for refugee status in the
United States.

More fundamentally, Washington should begin a serious policy review on Cuba. The
principal question is whether our unilateral efforts to make the economic
situation in Cuba as bad as possible are significantly weakening Castro or
instead are increasing the flow of refugees, allowing Castro to blame Cuba's
problems on Washington and Miami and enhancing the comandante's image.


The writer was chief of the U.S. Interests Section in Havana from 1987 to 1990.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              765 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    July 27, 1994, Wednesday, Final Edition

A Slow Response on Rwanda

Robert B. Oakley

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A27

LENGTH: 924 words


It is heartening to see the large-scale mobilization of the Clinton
administration in response to the incredible, massive Rwandan refugee disaster,
as well as positive responses from many other countries and organizations.
However, it is unfortunate that the response of the United States and other
governments was so slow in coming, since the likelihood of the mass exodus and
its consequences was evident weeks ago.

The delay by governments in spite of appeals by U.N. Secretary General Boutros
Boutros-Ghali, President Francois Mitterrand of France and U.N. High
Commissioner for Refugees Sadako Ogata meant that international action was not
taken that might have prevented the exodus or reduced its magnitude. At a
minimum, an earlier response would have had many more relief workers and
supplies on the ground to start work at once rather than after death and
debilitation from disease and hunger had taken such a heavy toll.

Even before the first mass exodus of refugees, mainly to Tanzania, the secretary
general was urging the establishment of a U.N. peace-keeping force to prevent
further politically inspired genocide inside Rwanda as well as to head off the
outflow of refugees. The reaction of the United States was negative, and there
was little enthusiasm in the Security Council. Still paralyzed by the tragic
military events of last October in Somalia -- and forgetting the earlier
humanitarian triumph there -- the few voices in the Clinton administration and
Congress calling for positive action were overwhelmed. Conventional wisdom
understandably warned against new peace-keeping operations in such a confused,
violent situation as Rwanda. Prospects of effective action seemed dubious and an
exit point was so hard to envisage. Nor was there much attention from the media.

As the scale of Rwandan horrors continued to rise and began to receive
soul-searing television coverage, the United States offered limited support for
Rwandan peace-keeping, provided no U.S. military personnel were involved and the
operation was properly planned. Preparations for some kind of U.N. African force
proceeded, but very slowly. France, seeing what was occurring and about to
occur, could wait no longer. It undertook a limited humanitarian mission -- in
much the same fashion, although on a much smaller scale, as the United States
had in Somalia in December 1992. It did so although only Senegal responded to
the appeal for participation by other governments.

Despite criticism that there were ulterior motives or that they would end up at
war with the opposition Rwandan Patriotic Front, the French peace-keepers
avoided the political pitfalls. They saved thousands of Hutus and Tutsis from
slaughter and stemmed much of the refugee outflow from that part of Rwanda where
they were present. French forces and humanitarian agencies were positioned to
provide immediate help inside Zaire to the overwhelming exodus of hysterical
Hutus, driven across the border by the same so-called Hutu leaders who had so
cynically and deliberately started what became ethnic genocide of unimagined
magnitude and savagery.

The current response of the U.S. and other governments is a powerful one. The
humanitarian capability and commitment of U.S. military forces is again showing
itself to be awe-inspiring. However, the overall international effort will need
to be a sustained one, since months will be required to stabilize conditions
inside Rwanda, somehow neutralize the political and military remnants of the
former Hutu regime and persuade the refugees to return home. During this period,
large-scale humanitarian assistance must be sustained. Only the West can make
this happen.

As the international effort continues, success will require intelligent,
concerted political action by Rwanda's new government and its neighbors -- most
notably Zaire, Uganda and Tanzania -- with support from the Organization for
African Unity (OAU), the U.N. system, concerned governments and nongovernmental
organizations. Particular care must be taken by outsiders to avoid imposing
solutions upon Rwanda and its fragile new government, even while encouraging the
creation of stability, the advancement of human rights and the development of
representative political institutions. A start is being made in meetings between
Rwanda's new president and those of neighboring states. But a coherent strategy
and much more intensive political action will be required.

The OAU and regional African governments must accept the responsibility for
dealing with the numerous armed and ruthless Hutus from the former regime who
have moved to Zaire. In the short term they must be prevented from terrorizing
the refugees and disrupting relief and return activities. In the longer term
they must be prevented from organizing to return and seize power by force. Also,
the threat they pose to international civilian and military humanitarian workers
cannot be ignored. Nor can the possibility of casualties. If casualties among
humanitarian workers should occur, the American people need to recognize that
the cause is worth the price. But to minimize the threat, an early start must be
made on disarmament. Outside states and organizations can help, but they would
be making a major mistake if they either took the lead in such highly political
activities or ignored the need for them. This crucial aspect of the overall
problem can best be resolved by African leadership.


The writer was President Bush's and President Clinton's special envoy for
Somalia.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              766 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 25, 1994, Monday, Final Edition

Zaire Chaos Stuns Americans;
Airman Says Comrades Did Not Foresee Vast Scope of Refugees' Needs

Steve Vogel, Special to The Washington Post

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A13

LENGTH: 454 words

DATELINE: GOMA, Zaire, July 24, 1994


Staff Sgt. A.J. Smiley waved an American flag from the U.S. Air Force C-141
StarLifter cargo plane as it taxied down the runway today after landing.

The message -- that the vanguard of a U.S. relief force was arriving -- appeared
lost on the Rwandan refugees living and dying around this Zairian city, however.

On the streets of Goma and in the surrounding countryside, dense with human
beings dying by the thousands, exhausted refugees stared vacantly as U.S.
military vehicles went by.

The scope of the disaster awed the men arriving with the airlift.

"I don't think they've anticipated how big this will need to be," said an Air
Force sergeant. "I don't think anyone has a handle on what it's going to take to
get the job done."

Officers leading a military assessment team from the U.S. European Command
headquarters in Germany have been shaken by the magnitude and remorselessness of
the suffering here.

Smiley's StarLifter faced problems even before it landed at Goma. Hundreds of
people lined the runway and some darted across it, alarming crew members as they
made their final approach.

Touching ground, the big jet bounded about on the uneven runway. "That's what's
known as a sporting landing," said Staff Sgt. Bernie van Dauber, the flight
engineer.

Then Zairian authorities had some news.

"A $ 150 landing fee -- in cash," a crew member said. "Can you believe that?"

Smiley, a loadmaster on the C-141, said onlookers probably were disappointed
when they saw that the plane's cargo was an all-terrain forklift. "I'm sure
they're expecting food and water," he said.

Until the arrival of the forklift, though, workers at Goma had been unloading
planes by hand -- a slow process that kept the small airport clogged with
supplies and machines. A second StarLifter, carrying water purification
equipment, was diverted this afternoon because of the crowded conditions.

So, delivery of machinery like the forklift has priority.

"It doesn't do you any good to get aid down there if you can't off-load it,"
said Col. Ed McPhillips, an Air Force officer at the U.S. staging area in
Frankfurt. "You can get food down there, but how do you distribute it and avoid
being a magnet where people come together and catch disease? You've got to get
the basic infrastructure in there first."

With public attention being drawn to the fledgling American effort, U.S.
officers said they are sensitive about offending the French troops and
humanitarian agencies already deeply involved.

"Their effort has been heroic from the start, and we're just trying to fit into
their infrastructure," said Marine Col. Alan Davis, commander of the assessment
team. "To sit back and have all the focus on the U.S. is not fair."

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, RWANDAN REFUGEE FUNERAL PROCESSION HEADS AWAY FROM GOMA AIRPORT
SOON AFTER ARRIVAL OF U.S. C-141 CARGO PLANE. REUTER

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              767 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 24, 1994, Sunday, Final Edition

Clinton Disputes Allegations Of Inaction;
Vows to Do More

Mary Jordan, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A27

LENGTH: 353 words

DATELINE: HOT SPRINGS, Ark., July 23, 1994


President Clinton deflected criticism that the United States hesitated too long
to aid Rwandan refugees, but he also promised today "we are going to do more."

The president said the United States had "provided 40 percent of the total aid
to Rwanda to date" and had nothing for which to apologize. Some members of
Congress and United Nations Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali have said
that U.S. hesitation compounded what Clinton today termed a "horrible
humanitarian tragedy in massive proportion."

On Friday, two months after the Rwandan catastrophe began with intertribal
warfare, Clinton committed 4,000 U.S. troops to help in the humanitarian relief
effort in Zaire, where Rwandans, mostly members of the Hutu tribe, have fled.

"I think now is the time to concentrate on the people there and what we as
Americans, as citizens of the world, can do to keep as many of them alive as
possible." When the crisis is past, Clinton said, "there will be plenty of time
for rational assessment of whether more could have been done."

An estimated 500,000 Rwandans have been killed in tribal massacres that began
hours after the country's president was killed in an April air crash. More than
2 million people fled and are now camped in Rwanda, Zaire and other neighboring
nations. A lack of food and clean water at refugee camps has killed thousands
more.

"If you look at the record, I think it is very difficult to point the finger at
anyone. We have been working on this for two months," Clinton said. "We are
doing the best that we can. But we are going to do more."

Clinton spoke as he returned home to attend his high school reunion. When he
landed this morning at Hot Springs Memorial Airport, he told reporters, "Now
that the war [in Rwanda] was over," the "present winners of that conflict are
trying to persuade the Rwandans to return. That is ultimately the answer."

Later today he said: "I think a lot of the African nations are doing the best
they can and if they are trying to do something they cannot do, then the rest of
us need to help. I think the world is now focused on Rwanda."

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              768 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      July 24, 1994, Sunday, Final Edition

A TIDE OF MISERY;
Horrors at Home Propel Rwandans Across Borders -- and Into a New Catastophe

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A26

LENGTH: 819 words


After months of war and ethnic bloodletting that claimed an estimated
half-million lives, Rwandans are now falling victim to deprivation and disease
in their country and neighboring African states. The roots of Rwanda's conflict
reach far into the past, and the problems that Rwandans face present a bleak
future.


Rwanda's Civil War

Rwanda, a country about the size of Maryland, is in east central Africa, bounded
by Tanzania, Burundi, Zaire and Uganda. The population at the beginning of 1994
was about 8.2 million.

Rwanda was ruled from 1973 until April 6 by President Juvenal Habyarimana, whose
Revolutionary Movement for National Development was the sole party until 1991.

Habyarimana and the president of neighboring Burundi were killed in an
unexplained plane crash April 6. At present, the United States recognizes no
government in Rwanda.

Habyarimana was a member of the Hutu tribe.  The Hutus represent about 85
percent of Rwanda's population, but they were dominated for centuries by the
minority Tutsi, who account for about 14 percent of the population. Even before
Rwanda gained independence from Belgium in 1962, the country was plagued by
tribal warfare, and Habyarimana's death touched off new conflicts.
Government-trained Hutu militias began mass attacks on Tutsis and on moderate
Hutus suspected of cooperating with them.

Then the Tutsi-led Rwandan Patriotic Front -- which first invaded from Ugandan
exile in 1990 -- began a new offensive. After two months of fighting, the rebel
front captured Kigali, the capital, and on July 19 swore in a provisional
government; last week it drove the remnants of the old Hutu-led government and
its army out of their last refuge, in the far southeast of the country, and into
Zaire. At present, the United States recognizes no government in Rwanda.


The Refugees

The refugees are both Hutus fleeing the rebels and Tutsis who earlier fled from
the Hutu militias. According to the U.S. Agency for International Development,
there are 2.42 million Rwandan refugees in neighboring countries.  Another 2.5
million are displaced within the country, mostly living in camps in the
French-patrolled southwestern quarter of Rwanda.

An estimated 500,000 have been killed since violence flared in April. The
largest refugee group is in Zaire: 1.2 million in camps near Goma, 150,000 in
Bukavu and 400,000 in Kamanyola. There are 460,000 in Tanzania, 200,000 in
Burundi and 10,000 in Uganda, according to AID.


The Relief Effort

Supplies from many countries are being delivered by plane to the airfield at
Goma, Zaire, and by truck from the Kenyan cities of Mombasa and Nairobi;
Kampala, Uganda; and Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. U.S. equipment and medical supplies
are being airlifted from Frankfurt, Germany. The United States, which expects to
spend up to $ 250 million on the relief effort, has announced plans to upgrade
the airport at Entebbe, Uganda, so that it can become a hub for smaller aircraft
to fly to airstrips in the region on a round-the-clock basis.

French troops based in Goma are seeking to slow the exodus of refugees and
provide protection to Rwandans in the southwest part of their country, and U.S.
officials say 4,000 troops will be sent to the region to assist in the relief
operation.

The first priority of the relief mission is to distribute medical supplies and
clean water to help control cholera. Twenty million oral rehydration packages
were due to be delivered to refugees Friday and Saturday.

The main problems facing the relief effort are poor roads, lack of
transportation equipment, lack of lights at airports for night landings and a
shortage of relief workers to distribute supplies and care for refugees.
Airports lack forklift equipment for quick unloading. Refugees milling around on
airfields make airdrops dangerous. Volcanic rock makes digging of wells and
latrines difficult.


The Outlook

Even after the immediate crisis is stabilized and a supply chain for refugees is
in place, officials of volunteer relief agencies say the Rwandans will face a
potentially greater threat: famine. Food shortages could spread as livestock
left behind by fleeing farmers die and crops rot in the fields. Relief officials
say it is urgent for Rwanda's new government to make it possible for the
refugees to return home as soon as possible.

The new government formed by the rebels, though controlled by Tutsis, includes
Hutus in senior positions and has pledged that Hutu refugees will not face
retribution if they return home. The former Hutu government has urged refugees
in Zaire not to return, however, and in some cases its soldiers have blocked
Rwandans seeking to return home from Zaire.

President Clinton said Friday the United States would "support and urge the
immediate deployment of a full contingent of United Nations peacekeepers to
Rwanda to provide security for the return of the refugees."



LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, NO ESCAPE FROM SUFFERING: TENS OF THOUSANDS OF RWANDAN REFUGEES
PACKED A MAKESHIFT CAMP, APPROXIMATELY SIX MILES NORTH OF THE EASTERN ZAIRIAN
BORDER TOWN OF GOMA, LAST WEEK. AFP; MAP, RICHARD FURNO; CHART

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              769 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            July 21, 1994, Thursday

Opinion Roundup Excerpts from newspaper editorials across America. PHILADELPHIA
INQUIRER Hell on Earth

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Section A; Page 15

LENGTH: 884 words


Those on the ground say the scene is from Dante's hell: Miles upon miles of
desperate Rwandan refugees, orphans, mothers dying with infants in their arms,
splintered families who traded what they thought was certain death in their own
country for, at the very least, certain deprivation in neighboring Zaire. Relief
workers call it "the worst humanitarian crisis in the world."

There should be debate aplenty over what, if anything, the West and the United
Nations could have done to avert tragedy on this gigantic scale. That debate is
politically, and morally, necessary.

But it shouldn't delay immediate action to help ease the situation. The highest
priority must be increased humanitarian aid. Aid workers have said that 8
million gallons of water and at least 800 tons of food were needed each day to
feed the million Hutu refugees in Goma, Zaire, alone; another 2 million refugees
may be on their way.

If the tide of refugees continues, nearly 3.5 million Rwandans would be living
in refugee camps in neighboring countries - a situation sure to destabilize the
entire central African region.

Political healing will be agonizingly difficult in a country so brutalized by
state-sanctioned tribal warfare. Right now, the need for physical healing is
even more urgent.

CHICAGO TRIBUNE The world's game

The people who helped bring soccer's World Cup to the United States did so with
the ambitious slogan of "making soccer history." When the monthlong competition
concluded Sunday, they had made good on their boast.

It was, of course, historic in itself that the world's premier sports
championship was held in the United States for the first time in its 64-year
history. And with Brazil's triumph over Italy, the event produced its first
four-time champion.

But history of another, more enduring, sort also was made. Americans at last had
the chance to see firsthand what all the excitement was about, why soccer is the
world's most popular sport.

While the critics were devising new adjectives to explain why Americans will
never embrace soccer, they couldn't explain this: The games drew almost 3.6
million fans to the various host stadiums, by far the most people to attend a
World Cup anywhere, and most of those fans were American.

No one will pretend that soccer ever will fully capture our heart and soul; we
have invented too many games of our own for that. But a sport doesn't have to be
No. 1 to be appreciated.

And what Americans came to appreciate was this: While our world championships
occasionally feature teams from Canada, the World Cup is truly international.

ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH A case for Solomon

Where's Solomon when you need him? That's the question many may be asking as
they watch the debate over the case of 3-year-old baby Richard. Two sets of
parents, adoptive and biological, are battling for custody of the youngster in
Chicago.

In the latest developments, the Illinois Supreme Court refused to reconsider its
earlier decision to award custody to the biological father. But it did agree to
let Richard stay with his adoptive parents pending an appeal to the U.S. Supreme
Court. Thus, the agony is prolonged.

The fundamental problem with this case is that it has no easy solution. Both
sides have compelling arguments.

The biological father, Otakar Kirchner, failed to assert his parental rights in
the 30 days after his son's birth, as Illinois law requires. But Kirchner says
he had been told by the infant's mother, then his girlfriend but now his wife,
that the baby had died.

When he discovered the truth, two months after the birth, he began a prolonged
legal battle to win back his son.

Kirchner did not deserve to lose his child because of a deception perpetrated by
the mother. Still, the adoptive parents did legally adopt Richard and have
provided a loving home for him since he was 4 days old. Surely they, and other
adoptive parents, must wonder if any adoption can ever be final.

SCRIPPS HOWARD NEWS SERVICE Put off health reform

Congress, in a lather to pass health reform before Election Day, has a problem:
None of the bills proposed commands enough support to become law, as governors
underscored by jilting both Bill Clinton's plan and GOP Sen. Bob Dole's.

True, Democrats in the National Governors' Association, meeting in Boston,
endorsed Clinton's goal of providing health insurance to all Americans. Most
Republicans want that, too. But how to ensure "universality"?

Clinton would require employers to pay 80 percent of their workers' health-care
premiums. But the governors rejected employer mandates.

Dole's proposal got an even rockier reception. Though the Dole bill contains
parts the governors like, such as guaranteeing Americans health coverage between
jobs, it would pay for such changes by capping federal Medicaid payments to the
states.

Similar brick walls block health reform in Congress itself. Of five bills
reported out of committee, three contain employer mandates. Another relies on
insurance reforms and subsidies to the working poor to broaden coverage. But it
stands to be hammered down by advocates of immediate universality.

Perhaps wisdom counsels reconsidering the subject next year. A rigorous campaign
debate might be just the thing to bring structure to the health-care hodgepodge.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH942040250

                    Copyright 1994 The Atlanta Constitution


                              770 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 21, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

Refugees and the Scourge of Indifference

Jim Hoagland

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A31

LENGTH: 818 words


Man has created hell on earth on the borders of Rwanda. The refugees arrive
there in ever mounting numbers, flashing horrors that seem beyond human reach
and comprehension onto the globe's conscience via the television screen.

Their families and possessions scattered like leaves scudding before a mighty
wind of death and destruction, Rwanda's refugees daily raise the international
community's threshold for human disaster.

The images of their suffering have become unbearable. Yet each day we bear more:
Each day, we tolerate anew the refugees' loss of humanity as they endure
conditions that animals would rebel against. Each day the gap between what the
world's electronically informed communities witness and feel and what they can
reasonably do about those feelings grows larger.

And it is not just Rwanda, and not just Africa. Human flight in extremis is
reshaping politics and diplomacy across the earth. Modern communications make
the refugee an important new catalyst in global politics.

In the Americas, refugees from Haiti are driving Bill Clinton toward risking his
presidency on a military intervention in that Caribbean island. In Europe, the
specter of refugees created by ethnic cleansing in the wars of ex-Yugoslavia
shames a prosperous, powerful continent.

Russian politicians say their experiment in democracy is hostage to the fate of
25 million Russian expatriates living in the "near abroad," the former Soviet
republics on Russia's borders. A mass migration of these expatriates into Russia
as refugees would strengthen the hand of Moscow's extreme nationalists.
Elsewhere in Asia tick the unfinished catastrophes of the Kurds and Shiites in
Iraq, of continuing upheaval in Cambodia and Burma, and the threat of future
refugee disasters in a China riven by economic and political pressures.

"We always thought the industrial democracies of the North would be able to deal
with the upheaval and poverty of the South in a coordinated fashion," says a
French diplomat who has unsuccessfully sought greater American help for the
problems of Rwanda, Algeria and other African countries. "But instead of a
North-South model, each power has its own 'South' to deal with. And each of us
is doing as poorly as the other."

The end of the Cold War turns the world's powers to the accumulated problems of
their own neighborhoods. But the end of superpower conflict has also fragmented
international cooperation. The problems posed by massive refugee flights are the
problems of life itself: of shelter, food, disease and protection from becoming
prey. They are biblical problems, in their grand scope and direct nature, unlike
the ideological or political problems familiar to governments.

These mass refugee crises are difficult for politicians and generals to handle.
The regional powers want to pass off their own piece of the South to others as
quickly as possible. As a price for going there, the French want the United
Nations to come in and take Rwanda off their hands.

The Clinton administration, standing two centuries of the Monroe Doctrine on its
head, says it will invade Haiti only if outsiders, in the form of the United
Nations, will take over responsibility for that U.S. neighbor immediately after
the U.S. assault.

The refugees shame us all. But they do not threaten countries or different
regions equally. Their flights into neighboring areas create pressures for
half-way, self-centered intervention to help reduce human misery temporarily,
move the problem down the agenda and off television screens. It is a kind of
yuppie interventionism.

Such limited goals made sense for the French in Rwanda, where the French are not
expected to do more than apply a Band-Aid to a giant crisis and move on. Rwanda
is a global problem, in scale and immediacy. It requires a global response.

Haiti is different. It is an American problem. If America is to intervene there,
it should not do so in a half-hearted way expecting others to sweep up after
Uncle Sam in his own neighborhood.

A military intervention triggered by political reactions to refugees can be
treated no less seriously than a military intervention triggered by a threat to
oil reserves or other vital interests. If Haiti is not a problem worth fixing
with a sustained U.S. military presence, it is not a problem worth an invasion.

The world's refugees deserve sympathy, help and a chance at survival. They
deserve an immediate, caring and effective response from the international
community. But the world's governments, led by the only remaining superpower,
need to craft new, consistent and coordinated policies to head off the disasters
that create the human hells of Rwanda and Haiti.

If they do not, those governments must be ready to see these disasters through
when they do occur. Otherwise, there will be five horsemen of the Apocalypse:
War, Disease, Famine, Death and Indifference.


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              771 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    July 20, 1994, Wednesday, Final Edition

Bluffing Haiti's Bullies

William Raspberry

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A19

LENGTH: 771 words


"A bully's only question is, 'Will you kick my butt?' Not 'Can you?' or 'Should
you?' but 'Will you?' "

That's Randall Robinson, explaining why the United States may be forced to
invade Haiti or else resign itself to a series of awful consequences: abandoning
that country's abortive attempt at democracy, leaving in control the military
thugs who now run the place and facing the prospect of vast new waves of Haitian
boat people washing up on American shores.

President Clinton, according to Robinson's view, has done what every schoolyard
kid knows you can't do with a bully. He's made a series of empty threats.

Not just the limited sanctions that, too late, had to be intensified, not just
the rhetoric-only support for democracy in the hemisphere, but almost every
important move of the Clinton administration has sounded very much like, "Okay,
I'm warning you, and I really mean it this time."

Whatever weight the warnings carried for Haiti's rulers evaporated last October
when the USS Harlan County, a landing craft with 218 American and Canadian
troops aboard, was frightened away (so it must have seemed in Port-au-Prince) by
a handful of thugs. That's not to say that this contingent of technicians should
have forced its way ashore -- only that it should have been ordered to back off
to wait for reinforcements. Turning tail, as the Harlan County did, could only
embolden the forces of Lt. Gen. Raoul Cedras, commander of the Haitian armed
forces, and make Clinton look weak and irresolute.

For Robinson, whose organization, TransAfrica, has been pushing U.S. Haiti
policy, the recent -- thus far unpunished -- expulsion of U.N. human rights
observers was "Harlan County II."

Any new threats now will be seen as simply more talk, he said this week. And
like other observers, he's coming to believe that military action is the only
alternative to doing nothing at all -- and less damaging to U.S. interests.

For a time he thought sanctions might have an effect. "Unfortunately, sanctions
to be effective have to be all-out sanctions," he said. "Clinton tried to start
small and then ratchet-up the sanctions, and all that did was give the military
government time to hunker down. In any case, sanctions can weaken but they
cannot deliver the final blow. The reason sanctions worked in South Africa is
that de Klerk cared about what happened to his country. The generals don't care
what happens to Haiti."

Worse from a policy point of view, sanctions exacerbate the refugee crisis --
the very thing that makes Haiti's situation a problem in the United States.
"There's no way sanctions could deliver before the end of year," says Robinson,
"and we can't tolerate the refugee situation that long."

Like growing numbers of critics of the Clinton administration, Robinson ticks
off the list of false starts and lost opportunities and adds this one:

"As little as six months to a year ago, the main problem in Haiti could have
been dealt with by the [military] removal of a few people. But the cancer has
metastasized."

Still, he says, it should be possible to put together a list of 200 to 250
people who, if they were rendered harmless, would allow you to deal with the
situation. But then the resulting vacuum would, willy-nilly, involve the United
States in rebuilding the country, restoring its infrastructure and creating the
institutions that could sustain the next attempt at democracy.

Are America's interests in Haiti worth that sort of investment?

Robinson says yes, for two reasons. The first and most obvious is that as long
as its political and economic problems remain unresolved, Haiti will be a
refugee factory, with practically all of its human output bound for America.
"Remember, all the excitement so far has been over a few dozen -- at most a few
hundred -- refugees at a time," Robinson says. "Remember, though: Haiti's
population is more than five million."

But there is, he said, another U.S. interest -- and responsibility -- in Haiti.

"Haiti is not in the condition it's in because it's black, as some people seem
to think, but because of what happened 200 years ago, after it had the only
successful slave revolt in the history of the hemisphere. What was the American
response? An embargo, imposed by Thomas Jefferson and lasting 65 years, because
America couldn't tolerate the implication of a successful slave revolt.

"Haiti thus started out behind the 8 ball and was kept there -- with our
complicity -- while the rest of the Caribbean got off to a better start. Don't
you think that gives us a moral interest in helping the Haitian people set
things right?"

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              772 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            July 14, 1994, Thursday

Refugee kids receive Summer of Safety VISTA workers teach youngsters how to
avoid dangers in America

BYLINE: By Tim Fay STAFF WRITER

SECTION: EXTRA; Section A; Page 3

LENGTH: 502 words


Volunteers in Service to America (VISTA) workers have been busy in four metro
neighborhoods this summer, including Clarkston, teaching refugee children from
Bosnia, Eritrea, Somalia and Vietnam about avoiding the dangers of life in
America.

In VISTA's Summer of Safety program, 20 volunteers, themselves college-age
refugees from several nations, have been helping more than 200 children in the
10-week program.

The volunteers daily instruct grade-school-age children about avoiding the
dangers of fire hazards, automobile traffic, crime, drugs and AIDS.

"We try to incorporate safety into each thing we do, even things like crossing
the street," said coordinator Trillium Theriault.

"I think [the refugee families] really bought into the idea of making safety
information available," said Michael Burnham, director of the Clarkston office
of World Relief, which provides an office for volunteers working in Clarkston.
VISTA Summer of Safety teams also operate in refugee-populated Doraville, Grant
Park and Norcross.

The groups attempt to tackle such issues as gang-related violence. The
volunteers distribute fliers to families with helpful phone numbers and lists of
possible signs of gang activity. They also lead the kids in role playing
designed to show the potential danger of joining youth gangs.

"Don't fight at school," said 8-year-old Helen Memingsteab of Eritrea, when
asked what she'd learned from her college-age teachers.

Although a weighty topic, such lessons are perhaps a welcome change for many of
the students. Some children only five months earlier escaped the fighting in
Bosnia.

"This gets them away from the violence," said Burnham, contrasting the summer
program with life in Bosnia. "It gives them a chance to do some fun things."

Lesson breaks in the program include jump rope, Frisbee and swimming.

Although considered volunteers, VISTA workers are paid a modest salary and are
awarded a $ 1,000 scholarship at the end of their summer service.

For the daily instruction, the volunteers split the children into groups of
about 10 which usually include children from at least four far- flung nations.
"It's amazing how well they communicate," Burnham said. "But that's something
they weren't doing before [the program began]."

As part of its safety instruction, the children operate under a buddy system. At
first, the children sought only same-background children as buddies.

"Now, they want buddies from other groups," Theriault said.

Local screens his film. Lance Robertson, a candidate for DeKalb County
Commission, is screening previews of his film which documents the historic
all-race South African elections of April 1994. The screening of "One Person,
One Vote, One Goal, Freedom!" will be at the William C. Brown Library, 2861
Wesley Chapel Road, Sunday at 5 and 7 p.m.

Admission to the sneak preview is free, although Robertson briefly considered
requiring a current voter's registration card as admission. He promises not to
make a campaign pitch.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH941960097

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fben Mehare jumps rope and Hasnija Mujkanovic holds one end. /
JAYSON MELLOM / Special

                    Copyright 1994 The Atlanta Constitution


                              773 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                             June 21, 1994 Tuesday

SEEKING SAFE HAVENS

BYLINE: JENNY BRINKWORTH

LENGTH: 741 words


The theme for this year's Refugee Week is Celebrating Refugee Families. JENNY
BRINKWORTH reports on the plight of the world's growing refugee population.

REFUGEES who travel as a family are often far more vulnerable than those who
flee alone, according to the director of South Australia's Refugee Association,
Mr Kevin Liston. Mr Liston says many refugees have been torn from close family
members and resettling can be much more difficult if people are separated from
half their family.

The chairman of Refugee Week in SA, the Reverend Martin Chittleborough, says
refugees challenge the concept of family because they bring to Australia
cultures which see an individual in the context of a wider family, and cultures
where responsibilities are owed to the extended family.

"Refugees offer a real challenge to the cherished Western idea that we survive
simply as a self-determining individual," he says.

Last year, Australia accepted 13,000 refugees, 500 of whom settled in SA after
leaving regions and countries like Bosnia, Ethiopia, the Sudan, Vietnam and
Latin America.

Refugees are people who flee their country of origin because they fear
persecution for reasons of race, religion, nationality, political opinion or
membership of a particular social group. This is in contrast to migrants who
make a conscious choice to leave home and migrate to another country. If they do
not like the new country, they may choose to return home.

Most modern refugees are innocent civilians who have the misfortune to live
under oppression.

There are more than 20 million refugees in the world today and more than half of
them are children.

Hundreds of thousands of refugee children go to sleep hungry every night and
only one refugee child out of eight has ever been to school.

Many grow up behind barbed wire or in isolated camps.

Refugee camps can be dangerous places to live because residents are susceptible
to manipulation and coercion by ruthless elements from among their own numbers,
or by local officials.

Women are particularly at risk. The United Nations High Commisioner for Refugees
(UNHCR) says there are many instances of refugee women being subject to sexual
coercion in exchange for normal entitlements such as food and medical services
for themselves and their families.

UNHCR says sexual assault is common in some settings, along with violations of
basic rights such as equal access to education and freedom of movement: "Women
who speak out in defence of women's rights have, in some camps, been targeted
for abuse." There are many different sorts of refugee camps. Some consist of
rows of tents, while others contain huts made from wood, canvas, bamboo or
scraps of plastic.

The UNHCR is responsible for trying to meet basic needs such as safety, shelter,
food, clean water, health care and education.

However, many children have hidden scars which cause severe emotional problems
such as withdrawal, depression and nightmares. The main source regions and
countries of refugees are: Africa (7 million) - Sudan, Somalia, Rwanda, Angola,
Burundi, Liberia, Mozambique; South-West Asia, North Africa and Middle East (6.5
million) - Afghanistan, Iraq, Tajikstan; Europe (3.5 million) - Bosnia and
Herzegovinia, Azerbaijan, Armenia; South and South-East Asia (1.5 million) -
Vietnam, Burma, Laos, Sri Lanka, Tibet; Central America (1.5 million) -
Guatemala, El Salvador, Haiti.

The figure of 20 million refugees world-wide does not include more than 2
million Palestinians, whose situation is nearer resolution today than ever
before, and an estimated 24 million people who are displaced within the borders
of their own countries.

Ninety per cent of refugees come from the Third World and most seek asylum in a
Third World country.

Only 2 per cent of refugees resettle in countries like the United States,
Australia and Canada.

Australia has accepted about 500,000 refugees since World War II and there are
40,000 people seeking asylum in Australia.

There are three main solutions to refugee problems. They are: VOLUNTARY
REPATRIATION - refugees choosing to return to their country.

Ideally, he or she is monitored and assisted by the UNHCR.

LOCAL INTEGRATION - settling in the first country which offers asylum.

This is only possible where that country has the land, the resources and the
desire to settle refugees.

RESETTLEMENT - migrating and being permitted to settle permanently in a third
country.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo: refugees; map: world refugee population 1994; table:where
refugees are seeking asylum

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1994 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              774 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 29, 1994, Sunday, Final Edition

The New Europeans

SECTION: OPINION EDITORIAL; PAGE C6

LENGTH: 530 words


MIGRATION is becoming one of the great forces changing the world's politics, and
nowhere more dramatically than in Europe. For a generation after World War II,
western Europe was largely segregated from the populations to its east and south
by the Iron Curtain and the Mediterranean. In the 1990s, an era of cheap travel
and relaxed border controls, millions of people are on the move, drawn by
prosperity and pushed by fear and war at home. Many Europeans, in reaction to
this new pressure, feel beleaguered. It's reflected in the way they think about
the world, and the way they vote.

In Germany, one out of every 12 residents is not a citizen. That's almost twice
the proportion here in the United States -- although it's the United States that
traditionally welcomes immigrants and Germany that traditionally does not. Some
of the non-citizens in Germany have been there for a long time, like the Turkish
workers who arrived in the 1960s. But there are also nearly 400,000 refugees
from ex-Yugoslavia. Austria is carrying, in relation to its size, an even
heavier burden of Yugoslav refugees.

Poland is accustomed to thinking of itself as a poor country. Long before its
Communist regime fell it allowed Poles to travel westward, generally as peddlers
or day laborers, generally working illegally. But now Poland has become aware of
peddlers and day laborers filtering across its own eastern border, especially
from the economic disaster in Ukraine. With mixed feelings, Poles have begun to
realize that by the standards of much of the rest of the world, their country is
a model of prosperity and a desirable destination.

France in particular is feeling the effects of long economic stagnation
throughout North Africa, and the sharpening tension between the government and
Muslim fundamentalists in Algeria. But asylum-seekers from sub-Saharan Africa
tend to go to Germany, perhaps because of the generous social benefits there.

One consequence of the civil wars and tribal rivalries in Africa, little noticed
here in the United States, is the steady drift of refugees northward. For those
who can get a plane ticket, even a wretched life on the streets of a European
city selling trinkets to tourists may be preferable to conditions at home.

Since the African and Asian newcomers have darker skins than the Europeans,
resentment of them is often couched in explicitly racist terms. And since the
respectable political parties will have nothing to do with racism, the subject
of population movements is often left to the less-than-respectable. The results
are clearest in Germany, where immigration is heaviest. But similar rumbling is
audible in every European country. Even law-abiding people of the most humane
instincts find this rapid inflow of strangers to be troubling -- a drain on
public budgets and a threat to the customs of communities far more accustomed to
homogeneity than, say, most of their counterparts in the United States.

The pressures of migration keep rising around the world. Dealing with them
fairly and decently is close to the top of the list of urgent necessities that,
in the 1990s, are taking Europe's politicians by surprise.


LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              775 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 5, 1994, Thursday, Final Edition

Aristide's Misguided Charge

Jim Hoagland

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A23

LENGTH: 802 words


The Clinton administration's shifting policies toward Haiti deserve most of the
criticism they get. But I doubt that racism is part of the problem, as
Jean-Bertrand Aristide bitterly alleges. And I doubt that a U.S. invasion to
restore Aristide is part of the solution.

Aristide damages his own case -- and devalues the force of honest examination of
the race factor in foreign policy -- by mistaking the Clinton team's ineptness
for racial prejudice. Racism as a basis for policy is too serious a charge to be
treated so lightly.

The Aristide accusations come as South Africa's elections bury many of the
racial myths and antagonisms that shaped apartheid and the outside world's
relations with Pretoria. South Africa's future will not be problem- free or
prejudice-free. But it will be different, and instructive about race and foreign
policy.

The United States was absolutely right to see race as an important factor in
shaping its relations with South Africa. The ruling white regime's abuse of that
country's non-white majority threatened to inflame black-white relations
everywhere. By imposing economic sanctions and applying diplomatic pressure, the
United States was defending its interests in that conflict.

South Africa and other cases suggest that American policy often is responsive to
the ideal of multiracialism and the concerns of black Americans when racial
conflict is the issue abroad. If Belgian colonialists were today slaughtering
Rwanda's Tutsis, instead of the Hutus doing the killing, would the White House
be free to adopt its current "terribly tragic but not our problem" approach?
Again, I express my doubts without having final proof at my fingertips.

In Rwanda, and in Haiti, there is a certain official indifference to the fate of
blacks who are not being abused by whites. Aristide seemed to suggest in an
April 21 press conference that this constitutes racism. He charged that
Clinton's turning away of Haitian refugees fleeing the murderous cruelty of the
junta that overthrew Aristide "is a racist policy. It's really a way to say we
don't care."

Hypocrisy is a charge that would stick to Clinton on Haiti. He criticized George
Bush for turning back Haitian refugees, but now does the same. Cynicism also
applies. Clinton's primary concern as a politician has to be the electoral votes
of Florida, a state that would be swamped by the refugees.

But if race is a factor in his Haiti policy, it is one that keeps Clinton more
involved, and more sympathetic to Aristide, than he would otherwise be. The
president seeks to placate the Congressional Black Caucus and the liberal wing
of the Democratic Party.

The Clintonesque response to Aristide's April 21 blast was to dispatch key aides
to soothe the nettled Haitian leader. I try to imagine past presidents who have
had to deal with recalcitrant foreign leaders reacting the same way. But I can't
quite see Lyndon Johnson or even George Bush turning the other cheek in public.
Clinton continues to feed the hand that bites him, supporting Aristide in
rhetoric.

But the Haitian's misguided racism charge makes it even less likely that
Aristide's restoration will be the goal of the limited military action and/or
covert operations the administration may finally take to punish the junta for
defying America and terrorizing its subjects.

Punishing Haiti's thug-rulers, and restoring Clinton's credibility in foreign
policy, are different (and more limited) goals than committing the U.S.
government to restoring Aristide by military action and thus taking the
responsibility for what happens afterward. Aristide says not even he wants an
invasion designed to put him back in power.

"He does not want to be Somoza, installed by American bayonets," says one of
Clinton's advisers. Nor could Aristide be a strongman a la Nicaragua's Somoza.
Whatever the merits of the public debate over his emotional stability, Aristide
is clearly not the kind of decisive, commanding figure who could control the
forces a direct American intervention would unleash.

Clinton's reputation can ill afford more dithering and reversals on Haiti. He
needs to make a hard choice between what seem at this point to be his best
options: He can deal with the junta by negotiating free, fair and ironclad
elections in the near future to replace Aristide, and take the flak that will
bring from the left. Or he can punish the junta by militarily enforcing a
leaking embargo, seizing or destroying Haitian military and police assets in
Haiti, and let Haitian politics take their own course.

What the president does not have to do is wear the label of racism for making
that choice, or doing something in between. Disagreeing with Jean-Bertrand
Aristide is not proof of racist intentions. Increasingly it looks like a good
course to follow.


LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              776 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      South China Morning Post (Hong Kong)

                               February 27, 1994

SECTION: Sunday Edition

LENGTH: 1996 words


AS HONG Kong prepares to eject thousands of Vietnamese asylum seekers, millions
more are strewn across the globe, fleeing ethnic violence, political
persecution, the horror of war or economic collapse. And, far from easing, the
crisis is deepening.

A running tally by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR)
shows the worldwide refugee population is more than 20 million, half of whom are
children. Another 24 million people are seeking refuge within their own
countries. UNHCR experts estimate 10,000 people join the ranks of refugees each
day. A decade ago, the daily rise was pegged at only 5,000.

People on every continent are being forced to turn their backs on their loved
ones, on homes, possessions, memories and hopes for the future. The world was
shocked by the life-and-death voyages of Vietnamese and Cambodian boat people
who fled massacres and war in their own homelands. We watched as Afghans fled
when Russian tanks crunched through the middle-eastern hills, prompting families
to leave their native soil, now littered with butterfly bombs and landmines.

As this decade opened, the West was drawn into the Iraq-Kuwait conflict. Iraq's
poison gas offensive against thousands of ethnic Kurds began a human river of
Kurds desperate to escape persecution and war in the Iranian and Turkish
mountain ranges. Africa remains an evolving, elastic mix of refugees and host
countries. Chased by civil war or bloody ethnic clashes, tribes crisscross
borders only to find themselves trapped by famine or more ethnic unrest.

EUROPE

THE plight of three million European refugees has opened the eyes of those who
believed refugees were people who fled Asia or Africa for the bright lights of
the United States, Australia or Europe.

Asian countries have opened their arms and immigration desks to those seeking
sanctuary from ethnic war in the former Yugoslavia. Muslim nations, such as
Malaysia and Pakistan, recently offered refuge to fellow believers fleeing the
Bosnian war, and several Europeans are understood to have journeyed halfway
across the world to start new lives.

The breakdown of the Soviet Union and resulting conflict among the Baltic states
has produced hordes of displaced people and refugees in eastern Europe.

Germany, one of the most prominent host countries, tightened its borders last
year to slow the swell of its 1.1 million asylum seekers. Neo-Nazi and white
supremacist groups have staged murderous attacks and fire-bombings on the
hostels, weddings and workplaces of immigrants, including refugees. Germany's
largest group of asylum seekers are from the former Yugoslavia, but some have
trekked from Vietnam, Sri Lanka and Nigeria. Wealthy European democracies such
as Britain, France, Sweden and Switzerland have been swamped by up to 200,000
applications for asylum, mainly from the Bosnian conflict and Turkey.

Russia also has become a magnet for the world's dispossessed. Since the collapse
of the former Soviet Union, asylum seekers have penetrated its borders with
ease. The UNHCR has registered about 20,000 asylum seekers in the Moscow area
alone - including Afghans, Somalis, Angolans, Iraqis, Iranians, Zaireans and
Ethiopians. Russian authorities are bracing for an expected influx of ethnic
Russians escaping persecution and conflict in Baltic states and central Asia,
where they had made their homes. More than half a million former Yugoslavs, many
who had never known deprivation, have suddenly become destitute in Serbia. In
Bosnia, those who have been unable to escape live huddled in closed post
offices, hotels and schools.

The new refugees of Europe had been used to waking in warm beds, breakfasting,
delivering their children to school and driving to work. Now they find
themselves sifting through rubbish bins, sleeping on floors or streets, and
lining up for hours at soup kitchens.

Serbia and Montenegro are sheltering 380,000 refugees from Slovenia and Croatia.
About 19,000 are housed in 240 hastily-opened refugee centres, but an
overwhelming number of families and individuals have opened their homes to house
and feed the remaining 95 per cent.

AFRICA

BITTER tribal clashes and political coups have made Africa a continent of
continuous upheaval, where an uprising can trigger the evacuation of villages or
districts within days.

In the tiny east African state of Burundi, about 600,000 people - one-tenth of
the population - have spilled across borders in a bid to escape tribal violence.
The refugee exodus, sparked by the assassination of Burundi's first elected
president last October, has delivered about 375,000 Burundians to Rwanda,
245,000 to Tanzania and 50,000 to Zaire. The rainy season has hit and many of
the refugee camps are without toilets, leading to fears of an outbreak of
disease.

Refugees from Mozambique, where fighting has killed one million, have made
temporary homes in South Africa, Malawi, Tanzania, Swaziland, Zambia and
Zimbabwe. Malawi alone has received more than one million Mozambicans - although
many of these are heading home after the 1992 signing of a peace agreement to
end 16 years of civil war. The UNHCR's voluntary repatriation programme aims to
return 1.3 million to Mozambique by 1996.

A series of wars in Sudan has left an estimated 500,000 dead and filled southern
Sudanese refugee camps with hundreds of thousands of people struggling to escape
bombs and government-rebel clashes. Many have sought safety in Uganda, but
Egyptian authorities estimate 1.5 million in Sudan need food aid.  Amnesty
International has blamed Sudanese leaders for massacres and ''ethnic
cleansing''.

About one million Somalis - many who had fled to Kenya - are being urged to
return home in the wake of three years of vicious clan battles. Civilians are
beginning to move freely in the country again, placing their trust in a peace
pact drawn up by elders and religious leaders but waiting for a political
solution. Kenya is home to about 250,000 refugees from Sudan, Ethiopia and
Somalia, and more arrive daily as famine tightens its grip on Africa.

ASIA

IN ASIA, international refugee agencies are encouraged by a spirit of optimism.
Cambodian and Vietnamese refugees are returning to their homes after years in
exile and hopes are high for the rebirth of both nations.

Almost 400,000 Cambodians who fled during 15 years of war and Khmer Rouge
atrocities are now returning, bringing hundreds of pre-teens who were born and
brought up in refugee camps.

Those who have lived in refugee camps scattered along the Thai-Cambodian border,
and detainees of refugee camps in Vietnam, Australia and elsewhere are all
heading home. Despite a peace accord signed by the Khmer Rouge in 1991, sporadic
violence continues.

This month's United Nations decision to hasten the repatriation of Vietnamese
asylum seekers and the recent lifting of the United States embargo in the
country, has brightened the future for Vietnam.

Almost 700,000 Vietnamese have been resettled in host countries - mainly the
United States since the fall of the South Vietnamese government in 1975. The
boat-led exodus hit countries nearest Vietnam and about 25,000 asylum seekers
remain in Hong Kong camps, many protesting at their imminent repatriation.

Chinese mainlanders, escaping economic hardship or human rights infringements,
are making for the United States in ever-increasing boatloads. The tragic voyage
of the Golden Venture, which dumped Fujian natives in the New York surf last
June, is one of the most well-known cases.

Snakeheads who organise the human smuggling trips press mainlanders for fees of
thousands of US dollars. Would-be illegal immigrants scrape together the cash,
often placing their families dangerously in debt and are locked in cargo holds
for weeks as their route winds along the coast of Africa or Central America.

Meanwhile, Bangladesh is trying desperately to return 300,000 Burmese Muslims
who fled across the border in 1991.

Refugees housed in camps among the teak forests of the Bangladesh-Burma border
have reported torture, murder, rape and forced labour carried out by the Burmese
army. Many are refusing to return to their homes without international
guarantees for their safety. About 10,000 Burmese refugees are thought to have
resettled in parts of Bangladesh.

MIDDLE EAST

AFGHANISTAN has been rocked by war for generations, producing six million
refugees - the world's largest number from one country. Now it is playing host
to refugees from another conflict.

About three million Afghans fled to nearby Iran after the 1979 Soviet invasion.
The collapse of Afghanistan's Soviet-backed communist regime, and the rise of
the Muslim Mujahedeen has encouraged more than 1.5 million to return since April
1992. But the power turnaround immediately drove at least 20,000 Afghan, Hindu
and Sikh refugees into India, accusing the Mujahedeen of arbitrary arrest,
rapes, attacks, murder and looting.

Now Afghanistan itself is appealing for international aid to care for thousands
of refugees fleeing the civil war in republican Tajikistan, a former Soviet
state. Villagers at the Tajikistan-Afghanistan border became refugees when
Russian and Tajik troops destroyed their homes in a bid to wipe out Tajik
rebels.

Middle Eastern and Asian nations rank among the world's top refugee hosts,
absorbing the persecuted from neighbouring states. Iran has taken in more than
four million refugees, mainly from Afghanistan and Iraq, and Pakistan has
absorbed about 1.63 million Afghans.

The Gulf War which broke out in 1991 presented the world with an additional 1.5
million refugees. Peasants trekked to seek safety in mountains along the Iraq
-Turkey and Iraq-Iran borders and persecuted Iraqi Kurds fled before the poison
gas bombardments of President Saddam Hussein's troops.

AMERICAS

REFUGEE problems in the Americas pale in comparison to the explosion of asylum
seekers in Europe and Africa.

The impoverished Caribbean nation of Haiti has been the launching pad for scores
of leaky boats, laden with hopeful voyagers intent on reaching US soil.  Asylum
seekers bearing tales of atrocities are now discouraged by the Coast Guards who
strictly enforce the US policy to turn back each boat before it reaches American
waters. US President Bill Clinton has sought backing from exiled Haitian
President Jean-Bertrand Aristide to forcibly return Haitian refugees, despite a
State Department report outlining ''extrajudicial killings by security forces,
disappearances and mistreatment of detainees and prisoners'' in 1992.

El Salvador, Nicaragua and Guatemala - caught in decade-long battles between
government troops and rebels, arbitrary arrest and sudden attacks - have
produced the most refugees among Central American countries.

Salvadoran refugees, driven from their homes by the 12-year civil war and death
- squad slaughter of thousands of priests and civilians, are returning after the
1992 signing of peace accords.

Tens of thousands of Nicaraguan refugees have begun returning in the wake of
1990 elections to mark the end of civil war between the US-backed Contras and
the former Sandinista government. Guatemalan refugees marched triumphantly
through Guatemala City on their return from a decade in Mexico last year. About
50,000 of the one million refugees felt their country was now safe enough to
return to last year, after 30 years of civil unrest, violence and up to 100,000
killings.

Tiny Belize, Mexico and Honduras have borne the brunt of the Central American
refugee exodus. Since the early 1980s, exiled foreigners - particularly from
Guatemala and El Salvador - made up about 15 per cent of the population of
Belize.

Costa Rica, which once housed up to 30,000 refugees, has closed its camps and
Honduras, which took in 40,000 Guatemalans, Salvadorans and Nicaraguans, has
seen its refugee population plummet through voluntary repatriation.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 1994 South China Morning Post Ltd.


                              777 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   January 5, 1994, Wednesday, Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

Church's 'National Migration Week' Seeks to Ease Path

Gustav Niebuhr, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A3

LENGTH: 706 words


At a time when hostility to immigrants is on the rise in many parts of the
United States, officials at the U.S. Catholic Conference are celebrating
National Migration Week, hosting "multicultural" Masses to which recent arrivals
have been invited to tell their stories.

When people get to know an individual immigrant, they often put aside their
antagonism, said the Rev. Richard Ryscavage, who directs the conference's
Migration and Refugee Services. "This is one tool the church can use to calm
people in the country about immigrants . . . to take away the fear factor."

Near the close of a midday Mass at the conference's offices -- near Catholic
University at 3211 4th St. NE -- a priest beckoned a slender young man to come
up to the lectern and talk about how he came to the United States.

Habtom T. Gebremichael -- a soft-spoken, 29-year-old from Eritrea, in east
Africa -- took a few minutes to tell a harrowing story.

This is what he said: He was jailed by the former Marxist military government of
Ethiopia, was tortured and later forced into the army. He escaped, walked to the
neighboring nation of Djibouti, then took a boat to Saudi Arabia, where he
worked two years. He bought a passport to get him to Sweden, where he sought
political asylum, but was deported to Sudan, where he was arrested. He escaped,
lived in Sudan for two years and then finally hiked five days through the desert
to Egypt, where he found a Catholic church and a sponsoring organization that
sent him to the United States.

"He's such a survivor. . . . There's such a will to carry on, such an energy.
And that's an incredible gift to this country," said Ryscavage, a Jesuit priest.

The Mass was the first of three to be held at the conference's offices. Today a
wounded Bosnian Croatian soldier and a Bosnian Muslim woman will offer their
testimony. On Thursday, a Vietnamese-born woman who fled her country by boat in
1984 will speak.

Ryscavage said the speakers were chosen partly on the basis of their
availability and partly because the staff at the migration office wanted to
highlight concerns about African and Bosnian refugees.

But he also said that because the Catholic Church "pre-dates the establishment
of sovereign states," it does not make the same legal distinctions among
immigrants that governments do. "Ultimately, for the church, a newcomer is a
newcomer, particularly if they are in need."

A statement deploring "the growing hostility toward immigrants," authorized in
November by U.S. bishops, did not distinguish between legal and illegal
immigration. Ryscavage said the church does not support illegal immigration, but
believes that a "generous" provision should be made for allowing newcomers into
the country.

"The church has such a solid moral ground to stand on, to say it's in the Gospel
to welcome strangers," said Randy K. Glantz, spokesman for the bishops' refugee
services.

At yesterday's Mass, the Rev. Tesfamarian Baraki noted that according to
Scripture, Jesus's family was forced to flee for safety into Egypt shortly after
his birth. He asked those present to remember "uprooted" persons everywhere.

After the Mass, Baraki, a priest in the Washington Archdiocese's Ethiopian and
Eritrean Apostolate, said African refugees like Gebremichael face special
difficulties. "As new immigrants, these people don't have a place in the black
community or in the white community, so they are struggling."

Baraki, pastor of the Kidane-Mehret Ge'ez Rite Church -- which meets in the
former high school All Souls, at 1001 Lawrence St. NE -- said between 30,000 and
50,000 Ethiopians and Eritreans live in the United States; about 5 percent are
Catholics. Many came to this country with no family and are expected to send
money home. It can be very stressful, he said.

"Just in December, we heard of three suicides . . . because these young people
don't have any support systems. And they're trying to support their families
back in their homelands," Baraki said.

At this point, Gebremichael spoke up, saying, "Well, I'm lucky. Some [Eritrean]
refugees died in the desert. They couldn't find water." On the other hand, he
said, he had been laid off on Friday from his job as a shuttle bus driver.


LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

CORRECTION-DATE: January 7, 1994, Friday, Final Edition

CORRECTION: In an article Wednesday, the Rev. Tesfamarian Baraki was quoted
incorrectly. He said that between 30,000 and 50,000 Ethiopian and Eritrean
immigrants live in the Washington metropolitan area.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, HABTOM T. GEBREMICHAEL, A REFUGEE FROM ERITREA, TOLD A HARROWING
STORY OF DIFFICULTIES IN FLEEING HIS HOMELAND. CRAIG HERNDON

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


                              778 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   December 23, 1993, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Iraqi troops open fire on international patrol

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 312 words


Iraqi troops fired at an international convoy protecting a Kurdish area of
northern Iraq but caused no casualties, U.S. defense officials said Wednesday.

The Pentagon said a group of 25 U.S., British, French, Turkish and Kurdish
personnel traveling in a four-vehicle convoy came under small-arms and light
machine-gun fire on Tuesday from Iraqi positions near the town of Faydah. They
withdrew without returning fire.

Later, on the same patrol, they came under fire for a second time. This time,
local guards traveling with the party returned fire. The officials said this was
believed to be the first ground attack against international forces since the
security zone was established in the aftermath of the 1991 gulf war to protect
Kurds from Iraqi attacks.

HAITI WARNING: The United States warned Haiti's military leaders they must
comply with a peace plan by Jan. 15 or risk a further tightening of
international economic sanctions. The additional sanctions could include the
limitation of non-commercial flights into and out of Haiti, State Department
spokesman David Johnson said.

BAD WEATHER: U.S. troops took to boats through flooded cities in southern
Germany to save stranded children and workers. Farther north, the Rhine began
flooding the cities of Cologne and Koblenz and threatened the parliament
building in Bonn. The flood - the worst in Germany in 46 years - is responsible
for five deaths. In South America, landslides across Colombia cut a major
highway and buried dozens of homes. The death toll could reach 80.

AFRICAN REFUGEES: The United Nations warned that disaster looms for 750,000
African refugees who fled tribal conflict in Burundi to neighboring countries.

CHINA-TAIWAN: Talks between China and Taiwan ended with negotiators unable to
agree on repatriation of Chinese hijackers and resolution of fishing disputes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Elsewhere in the World

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              779 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                  November 10, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

U.N. report: Refugees struggle amid racism

BYLINE: Juan J. Walte

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 336 words


More than 18 million refugees struggled to survive outside their homelands last
year amid a growing tide of racism, the United Nations reported Tuesday.

In the first report of its kind, the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees said
the number of refugees is nearly eight times worse than two decades ago, when
the U.N. recorded 2.5 million refugees.

The United States was home to 473,000 refugees, the report said.

"Refugees are the symptoms of the ills of an age," the U.N. report said. "The
euphoria that greeted the end of the Cold War has given way to a sober
reassessment of how refugees are affected by the new geopolitical realities."

Beleaguered governments, the report said, "are closing their doors in panic,
while racist and xenophobic attitudes are on the rise. . . . Racism, and the
violence that goes with it, all too often haunt refugees even after they have
found asylum."

Germany is often cited in reports because of the high-profile situation -
neo-Nazis and skinheads attacking refugees from the former Yugoslavia, Turkey
and elsewhere.

But, the report notes, "the problem of xenophobia is widespread throughout
Europe and elsewhere" - from Scandinavia to Switzerland, from France to Japan.

Last year, an average of 10,000 men, women and children became refugees every
day, the 191-page report said.

In addition, 24 million people are displaced within their homelands' borders,
the report said.

This dramatic rise in the number of people seeking asylum, the report warned,
"has created a backlash against refugee and economic migrant alike."

UNHCR commissioner Sadako Ogata said the "traditional system for protecting
refugees has come dangerously close to breaking down . . . and has seriously
endangered the time-honored tradition of granting asylum to those in genuine
need of protection."

The report said the refugee count breaks down as:

North America, excluding USA: 600,000.

Africa: 5.4 million.

Asia: 7.2 million.

Europe: 4.3 million.

Latin America: 883,300.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

WASHINGTON AND THE WORLD

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              780 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  November 10, 1993, Wednesday, Final Edition

World's Welcome Strained By 20 Million Refugees;
Xenophobia Surging, U.N. Commissioner Says

James Rupert, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A32

LENGTH: 490 words


An exploding global population of refugees is overwhelming the human tradition
of giving asylum, a United Nations agency said yesterday.

One out of every 125 people in the world has been forced out of his or her
normal life and home by civil war, persecution or violence, according to the
U.N. high commissioner for refugees, Sadako Ogata, whose agency, UNHCR, released
its first global study of refugees. Ogata said 19.7 million refugees live
outside their home countries, more than eight times the number two decades ago,
and another 24 million are displaced within their own borders.

"At the start of the 1990s," with the passing of the Cold War, "optimists
foresaw a reduction" in numbers of refugees, the report said. But the effective
collapse of several states -- notably the Soviet Union, Yugoslavia, Somalia and
Liberia -- has pushed millions of people into misery and overwhelmed the world's
ability to respond, the report said.

With impoverished Eastern Europeans spilling into Western Europe -- and Haitian
boat people and Chinese and Latin American migrants entering the United States
-- the post-Cold War 1990s have been marked by "an alarming upsurge of hostile
and xenophobic attitudes," Ogata said in releasing the report to journalists in
Washington.

The report noted steps taken by countries around the world to close their doors
to refugees. Public weariness with seemingly intractable conflicts, economic
recession "and the rolling up of the West's ideological welcome mat for refugees
from communist countries" have helped bring "the less hospitable climate facing
refugees," it said.

UNHCR directed its worldwide appeal first at the United States, publishing the
study initially in English and having Ogata release it in news conferences in
New York and Washington. The book-length report, which was funded by a private
Japanese donor, is to be published soon in other languages.

The report underscored the tussle between the Clinton administration and the
United Nations over how to respond to the implosion or near-collapse of states
such as Bosnia, Somalia and Haiti. The United Nations has been seeking a more
active U.S. role in peace keeping and more aggressive, armed "peace enforcement"
where nations have dissolved in civil war. But the administration, under
domestic political pressure, has backed away from any such commitment -- even in
Somalia, where it has troops in place.

Ogata praised the U.S. role in donating money and supplies to assure the basic
survival of refugees, saying Washington's donations form 22 percent of her
agency's budget. But the report stressed the need for international policy to
quench civil wars. Helping refugees is "becoming more closely tied to
peacemaking and peace-keeping efforts in their home countries," it said.
"Virtually all the refugee-producing conflicts taking place in the world during
. . . 1993 were within states rather than between them."


LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: CHART, THE WORLD'S REFUGEES (CHART IS NOT AVAILABLE.), TWP

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              781 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 17, 1993, Sunday, Final Edition

Our Commitment Is Haiti's Best Hope

Bob Graham

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE C7

LENGTH: 960 words


Tomorrow,the Senate will likely begin debate on an amendment to the Department
of Defense appropriations bill that would prohibit any further U.S. military
involvement in Haiti. To many Americans, horrified by violent television footage
both from Somalia and from Haiti, Dole's amendment may seem an attractive one.

In fact, however, ending the U.S. commitment to Haiti would ensure the collapse
of the Governors Island accord, destroying Haiti's hopes for democracy and
devastating American interests in that region.

The prospect of an economically and politically unstable Haiti would hurt not
only the Haitian people but also the United States. Haiti is not Somalia, where
our nation's interests are principally humanitarian. The United States has an
obvious interest in Haiti, just 800 miles off the East Coast.

The most immediate and obvious effect of instability in Haiti would be a renewed
flow of Haitian refugees into this country. President Clinton, who campaigned
criticizing the interdiction of Haitian refugees, has since justified turning
them back because of Haiti's substantive moves to restore democracy. But if the
Governors Island accord falls apart, the basis for that interdiction would be
shattered. How will we justify sending refugees back to a nation plagued by
violence and bloodshed, with little hope of a democratic future?

Having served as governor of Florida during the Mariel boat lift, I remember all
too well what a mass exodus to the United States can do to our local economies
and law-enforcement capabilities. Many cities continue to be challenged by the
problems associated with illegal immigration, and the administration has faced
strong pressure to tighten immigration laws. But the most effective means of
reducing the number of refugees is to promote democracies and help foster stable
economies in the Caribbean, throughout Latin America and around the world.

The United States also has a major interest in Haiti because of Haiti's role in
the drug trade. Corrupt members of the military have allowed drugs to travel
through Haiti, a transshipment point for illegal substances that end up on the
streets of America from Florida to California.

By allowing a few thugs to undermine a democratically elected government, the
United States would send a dangerous message to the rest of the Western
Hemisphere. Since the coup in Haiti, there have been efforts to dislodge
democracy in Venezuela, Peru and Guatemala. Abandoning Haiti would send a
dangerous message resonating throughout the Caribbean and South American
barracks -- that the world commitment to democracy is shallow and impotent.

The use of U.S. troops in a noncombat role is crucial to maintaining our strong
interest in Haiti. Reform of the military is the single most important
prerequisite for sowing the roots of democracy, and that means separating the
police and defense components of the military. Under the Governor's Island
agreement and the U.N. resolutions regarding Haiti, training of the police force
would be accomplished by French-speaking nations, while the United States would
play the lead in retraining the defense force. For training purposes, the
presence of the U.S. military, which has a long history of training the Haitian
army, is not only reasonable but also necessary to Haiti's stability. The very
failure of the Haitian military to live up to its commitment of providing
security for the U.S. troops underscores the critical need for military training
and reform.

The administration has failed to explain clearly the role of the U.S. military
in Haiti. In order to help effect a democratic transition in Haiti, the
administration must improve communication within our government, with the United
Nations and with the Haitians as well. Many Haitians, who still remember the
U.S. Marine occupation of their country from 1915 to 1934, are put off by the
thought of American troops in their country, particularly after hearing
inaccurate statements that Americans would be roaming their streets with M-16
rifles. We need to make sure they understand the limited noncombat role intended
in their country. And we need to keep them informed of U.S. moves in the region.
When President Clinton decided to pull out the USS Harlan County, we failed to
tell either the United Nations or even Haitian Prime Minister Robert Malval, who
has demonstrated a commitment to the vision of democracy and should have been
consulted about that decision.

Unlike the small number of thugs whose antics are dominating the evening news,
Malval and most of his fellow Haitians are sickened by the brutality of misrule
that has plagued Haiti for so many years. Prime Minister Malval and most of his
fellow Haitians are courageous and patriotic to undertake national leadership at
a time of turmoil and at great personal risk. His nation has indicated its
eagerness to live in a democracy by voting Aristide into power in a decisive,
free and fair election in 1990. Under the Governors Island accord, those goals
seemed within reach.

The violence last week in Port-au-Prince dramatically set back our hopes for
implementing the Governors Island agreement. But the majority of Haitians and
the international community still agree that this accord is Haiti's best hope
for peace.

There are three steps we can take toward helping the Haitians fulfill that hope.
Two of them are already underway: the United Nations decision to reimpose the
embargo and President Clinton's decision Friday to send six ships to enforce it.
The third step is a continued American commitment to the Governors Island
accord, which includes providing troops when both sides are ready for a peaceful
transition.

The writer is a Democratic senator from Florida.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


                              782 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      South China Morning Post (Hong Kong)

                               September 25, 1993

US cutting intake of Vietnamese

BYLINE: By RACHEL CLARKE, BERYL COOK and Associated Press

SECTION: News; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 582 words


IMPROVING human rights conditions in the former Soviet Union may help reduce the
number of refugees the United States must accept, according to Secretary of
State Warren Christopher.

But the showdown between President Boris Yeltsin and Soviet-era lawmakers showed
that Russia remained volatile, Mr Christopher told a congressional hearing
yesterday.

Fewer Vietnamese refugees would be granted asylum in the US next year, he added.

But it is not clear if the new policy would create a bottleneck in Hong Kong's
detention camps.

Mr Christopher's statements came at a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on the
Clinton administration's proposal for a maximum of 120,000 refugees during the
fiscal year ending September 30, 1994.

The total includes allocations of 55,000 for the former Soviet Union and Eastern
Europe, 45,000 for East Asia, 7,000 for Africa, 6,000 for south Asia and the
near east, 4,000 for Latin America-Caribbean and 3,000 in reserve quota.

Turmoil in former Yugoslavia prompted combining the Soviet and Eastern European
regions. Jews and some Christian minorities in the former Soviet Union are
presumed eligible for asylum under a two-year-old US law that cites a history of
religious persecution in Russia. The law expires at the end of 1994.

Hong Kong Government officials are to study the implications for the territory
of the 13 per cent cut in the annual quota for east Asian people to be offered
asylum in America.

The US has been, by far, the largest recipient of Vietnamese refugees from Hong
Kong. The total of 65,004 up to the end of July this year is nearly half of all
those resettled from Hong Kong in a total of 31 countries since 1979.

In a statement to the Senate Judiciary Committee in Washington DC, Mr
Christopher said: "Positive political changes in several parts of the world have
reduced the 'push' factor - the conditions that impel people to leave their
countries - and increased the 'pull' factor - the conditions that cause people
to return home - making significant refugee repatriation possible."

One reason for the cut in the quota of people from east Asia is the fact that
all known children of American servicemen in Vietnam will have been resettled in
the US by the end of this month and all Vietnamese imprisoned because of their
association with the US will have entered America by the end of 1995.

Last night, acting Refugee Co-ordinator Eddy Chan Yuk-tak said he had not seen
the announcement but expected the matter to be studied by government refugee
officials in due course.

Security Panel convenor Elsie Tu said the US cutback was hardly surprising given
its unemployment rates, but she felt the US was obliged to fulfil its promises
and help clear Hong Kong's camps of genuine refugees.

"The US is very good at telling others what to do about human rights, but they
are good at stepping out of their own responsibilities," she said.

A spokesman for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in Geneva
said: "We haven't had the details yet so it is hard to say how it will affect
our resettlement programme."

Details of a planned meeting to reform the Comprehensive Plan of Action are
expected to be discussed next week when the executive committee of the UNHCR
gathers in Geneva.

Meanwhile a third group of Vietnamese illegal immigrants from China was
repatriated yesterday.

Some 32 people were handed over the border as part of a programme to return more
than 2,400 people.


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 1993 South China Morning Post Ltd.


                              783 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                           August 14, 1993, Saturday

WEEKLY OFFERING Bishop Tutu optimistic

SECTION: RELIGION; Section E; Page 6

LENGTH: 527 words


Amid the gloom of rising violence in South Africa, Anglican Archbishop Desmond
Tutu delivered a message of optimism at a regional church meeting this week and
called on victims of apartheid to pray for conversion of even the most ardent
supporters of white supremacy.

"We should not let the prophets of doom have a field day," said Bishop Tutu in
his opening speech to the synod of the Diocese of Cape Town, which he heads.

"There are many wonderful things that have happened and are happening, and we
should celebrate these and give thanks to God for them," he said, noting that
many blacks and whites now live side-by-side, which was unlawful before, and
that black children are now attending "white" schools.

Bishop Tutu warned against expecting too much from a democratically elected
government representing the true interests of the people.

"We will continue to be vigilant, remembering that even the most popularly
elected government is made up, not of angels, but of mere mortals who are all
susceptible to the temptations of power and corruption."

Bishop resigns amid sexual harassment charges. Lutheran Bishop Kenneth E.
Zindle, who resigned as head of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America's
Slovak Zion Synod following allegations of sexual harassment by two women,
denounced handling of the case. "I leave in disgust for the way that this matter
has been pursued," he said. The synod council in Chicago says it reluctantly
accepted the resignation, and had sought to keep an open process regarding
Bishop Zindle to "allow all parties a full and fair hearing. However, Bishop
Zindle, while holding the allegations to be baseless, has said neither he nor
his wife Elizabeth can endure the process further."

Group says refugee numbers are increasing. Church World Service says protracted
conflict in former communist areas and in Mozambique, Burma and Somalia has
boosted the worldwide refugee population by 3 million to a total of about 17.5
million. The figures were compiled by the United States Committee for Refugees
of which CWS, relief arm of the National Council of Churches, is a sponsor.

Council of Churches avoids budget deficit. In a dramatic turnaround, the World
Council of Churches ended up in the black for the second year in a row,
according to the council's 1992 financial report. Three years ago, the
Geneva-based council confronted a $ 2 million deficit after three years of
smaller deficits. A financial statement mailed from council headquarters shows
total income of approximately $ 27.4 million in 1992 and expenditures of $ 25.7
million, leaving $ 1.7 million for later use. In 1991, the report showed income
of $ 26.4 million, which was $ 770,000 above expenses.

Clergyman of the year. Directors of Religious Heritage of America have chosen
the Rev. O.S. Hawkins, pastor of First Baptist Church in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.,
as the clergyman of the year. Named lay churchman and lay churchwoman of the
year, respectively, were Donald G. Soderquist of Bentonsville, Ark., chief
executive officer of Wal-Mart Stores Inc., and Joni Eareckson Tada of Agoura
Hills, Calif., president-founder of Joni and Friends.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH932290233

                    Copyright 1993 The Atlanta Constitution


                              784 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  July 1, 1993

LETTERS: NO HOMES, NO HEART

BYLINE: NICHOLAS MCKINLAY

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 391 words


I RECEIVED a letter from a friend telling me that a colleague of ours had hanged
herself in a toilet of a Vietnamese detention centre in Hong Kong after a long
period of depression. She was aVietnamese migrant claiming refugee status and
during her period of incarceration worked for a relief agency in the detention
centre that she lived in. This is not the first time that I have received such
news during my four-year association with the so called "Vietnamese Boat
People".

My friend is now in thePhilippines awaiting resettlement in the United States.
His story may have a happy ending. He was recently married and with his fluency
in six languages he may have the opportunity to start a new life in America. For
many people in a similar situation, their story is a sad one. Leaving Vietnam on
a wave of optimism, a mass exodus of people with hopes of a new life in a new
land finding only concrete, barbed wire and the stark realities of life outside
Vietnam.

The plight of the Vietnamese seems forgotten. In South-East Asia many thousands
of them are still stuck in prisons, euphemistically referred to as detention
centres and refugee camps. In Vietnam, millions of them live in extreme poverty,
despite their amazing resilience and creativity, President Clinton and the
United States government continue to overlook the issue of the normalisation of
relations with Vietnam. After 18 years, is it not time to stop punishing
ordinary people, many of whom were not even born then, for a war that was lost
in a far away land?

In Hong Kong, the Vietnamese detainees, many of whom have no hope of gaining
refugee status, are being continually moved from location to location in a
disorientating whirl, a calculated government policy aimed at destabilising the
existing communities. The Vietnamese are being sent home and the refugee camps
are closing down. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has talked
about the 1990s as being the decade of repatriation.

Perhaps it takes the death of another human being to bring issues so painfully
close. Today as we go about our business, have we time to spare a thought for
the millions of displaced people and asylum seekers in the former Yugoslavia,
the Middle East, Africa, Latin America and Asia?

Nicholas McKinlay.

57 William St,

Loughborough.


LOAD-DATE: July 1, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              785 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                             June 15, 1993 Tuesday

Australia's role in refugee relief

LENGTH: 965 words


AUSTRALIA has a long tradition of being a haven for people fleeing oppression.
The first refugees - using the term in its broadest sense

- were the 500 or so Lutheran Germans who, led by Pastor Augustus Kavel, came to
South Australia in 1838-39 to escape religious persecution in their homeland.

In the years that followed refugees from many European countries arrived in
Australia following momentous events in Europe during the 19th Century and,
later, World War I (1914-18) and the Russian Revolution (1917).

Australia's first association with a modern refugee situation came in 1938 with
its agreement to resettle 15,000 Jews from Germany, Austria and Sudetenland, an
area on the border of Poland and the former Czechoslovakia. Before the outbreak
of World War II, about 7500 of these people had arrived in Australia.

In 1947, Australia reached an agreement with the new Preparatory Commission of
the International Refugee Organisation to accept an annual quota of "displaced
persons" and between 1947 and 1953 about 177,700 of these people, mainly from
Eastern Europe, were resettled in Australia. At this time only the United States
had taken more refugees.

During the next 20 years to the mid-1970s Australia broadened the scope of its
refugee intake in response to those affected by the rise of Communism. Among
those who came to Australia were Hungarians, Russians from China, ethnic
Italians from the former Yugoslavia, other Yugoslavians, Czechs and Slovaks.

In the decade following the end of the Vietnam War in 1975, Australia took in
more than 95,000 people from Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia.

During this period Australia adopted new approaches to its humanitarian entry
program for refugees and in 1981 introduced a case-by-case refugee selection
program. In 1982, special humanitarian programs were applied to people suffering
substantial discrimination outside their home country, or persecution in it.
This later development was of particular benefit to people from Central and
South America.

At different times in the past 10 years, Australia has provided special refugee
arrangements for East Timorese in Portugal, Jews from the former Soviet Union,
Russians in China and for victims of communal violence in Sri Lanka and Lebanon.

Between 1975 and 1990, more than 200,000 people from all parts of the world
found safe haven in Australia.

Last year 12,000 refugees came to Australia and 13,000 are to be accepted in the
next 12 months, to June 1994. on must be outside the country of his or her
nationality. This means that in their flight from persecution, they have crossed
an international border.

For those who are granted refugee status, the UN Convention guarantees certain
rights.

These include the right of refugees to receive the same treatment as citizens in
employment, public education, social security and freedom of religious practice.

They should also have free access to law courts and no penalties should be
imposed on refugees who arrive illegally, as long as they present themselves to
the authorities without delay and show good cause for their illegal entry.

Refugees should not be expelled from a host country unless their presence
threatens national security or public order and they must never be returned to
countries where their life or freedom would be in danger because of their race,
religion, nationality, social group or political opinion.

But there are millions of refugees who do not meet the UN Convention definition
and are left without the protection of international and national laws and the
rights which are guaranteed to someone who meets the criteria.

There are millions of people in the Horn of Africa, in the former Yugoslavia and
in the States of the former USSR, who are running from violence and ethnic
hatred.

Yet they don't quite fit the UN definition of a refugee because they are not
individually targeted for deliberate government persecution.

Even though they are suffering because of their ethnicity, they are not singled
out personally.

In Africa, the Organisation of African Unity (OAU) has extended the definition
of a refugee to include people who have fled because of war or civil strife:
"Whoever, owing to external aggression, occupation, foreign domination or events
seriously disturbing public order . . . is compelled to leave his/her place of
habitual residence in order to seek refuge in another place outside his/her
country of origin". This definition of a refugee is only applied within Africa.

The UNHCR is able to help the victims in Somalia and the former Yugoslavia
because it has been invited by the UN Secretary General to extend its "good
services" to these people even though the convention definition, in itself, does
not specifically include victims of civil war.

In other countries, authoritarian governments exercise a reign of terror over
their citizens with arrests, imprisonment and torture, often at random, in a
campaign aimed at keeping the whole population in a state of fear.

While some of these people are victims of individual poltical persecution,
others, selected randomly, are not covered by the UN Convention definition of a
refugee.

Countries in Central America use an extended version of the UN definition which
includes the qualification that refugees are "persons who have fled their
country because their lives, safety or freedom have been threatened by . . .
massive human rights violations".

There are millions of people around the world who meet all the criteria of the
UN Convention except that they have not left their homeland. These people are
called internally displaced persons.

Often these people have been forced from their homes by civil war, persecution,
or natural disasters and have taken refuge in another part of their country.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1993 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              786 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                             June 15, 1993 Tuesday

Australia's role in refugee relief

LENGTH: 965 words


AUSTRALIA has a long tradition of being a haven for people fleeing oppression.
The first refugees - using the term in its broadest sense

- were the 500 or so Lutheran Germans who, led by Pastor Augustus Kavel, came to
South Australia in 1838-39 to escape religious persecution in their homeland.

In the years that followed refugees from many European countries arrived in
Australia following momentous events in Europe during the 19th Century and,
later, World War I (1914-18) and the Russian Revolution (1917).

Australia's first association with a modern refugee situation came in 1938 with
its agreement to resettle 15,000 Jews from Germany, Austria and Sudetenland, an
area on the border of Poland and the former Czechoslovakia. Before the outbreak
of World War II, about 7500 of these people had arrived in Australia.

In 1947, Australia reached an agreement with the new Preparatory Commission of
the International Refugee Organisation to accept an annual quota of "displaced
persons" and between 1947 and 1953 about 177,700 of these people, mainly from
Eastern Europe, were resettled in Australia. At this time only the United States
had taken more refugees.

During the next 20 years to the mid-1970s Australia broadened the scope of its
refugee intake in response to those affected by the rise of Communism. Among
those who came to Australia were Hungarians, Russians from China, ethnic
Italians from the former Yugoslavia, other Yugoslavians, Czechs and Slovaks.

In the decade following the end of the Vietnam War in 1975, Australia took in
more than 95,000 people from Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia.

During this period Australia adopted new approaches to its humanitarian entry
program for refugees and in 1981 introduced a case-by-case refugee selection
program. In 1982, special humanitarian programs were applied to people suffering
substantial discrimination outside their home country, or persecution in it.
This later development was of particular benefit to people from Central and
South America.

At different times in the past 10 years, Australia has provided special refugee
arrangements for East Timorese in Portugal, Jews from the former Soviet Union,
Russians in China and for victims of communal violence in Sri Lanka and Lebanon.

Between 1975 and 1990, more than 200,000 people from all parts of the world
found safe haven in Australia.

Last year 12,000 refugees came to Australia and 13,000 are to be accepted in the
next 12 months, to June 1994. on must be outside the country of his or her
nationality. This means that in their flight from persecution, they have crossed
an international border.

For those who are granted refugee status, the UN Convention guarantees certain
rights.

These include the right of refugees to receive the same treatment as citizens in
employment, public education, social security and freedom of religious practice.

They should also have free access to law courts and no penalties should be
imposed on refugees who arrive illegally, as long as they present themselves to
the authorities without delay and show good cause for their illegal entry.

Refugees should not be expelled from a host country unless their presence
threatens national security or public order and they must never be returned to
countries where their life or freedom would be in danger because of their race,
religion, nationality, social group or political opinion.

But there are millions of refugees who do not meet the UN Convention definition
and are left without the protection of international and national laws and the
rights which are guaranteed to someone who meets the criteria.

There are millions of people in the Horn of Africa, in the former Yugoslavia and
in the States of the former USSR, who are running from violence and ethnic
hatred.

Yet they don't quite fit the UN definition of a refugee because they are not
individually targeted for deliberate government persecution.

Even though they are suffering because of their ethnicity, they are not singled
out personally.

In Africa, the Organisation of African Unity (OAU) has extended the definition
of a refugee to include people who have fled because of war or civil strife:
"Whoever, owing to external aggression, occupation, foreign domination or events
seriously disturbing public order . . . is compelled to leave his/her place of
habitual residence in order to seek refuge in another place outside his/her
country of origin". This definition of a refugee is only applied within Africa.

The UNHCR is able to help the victims in Somalia and the former Yugoslavia
because it has been invited by the UN Secretary General to extend its "good
services" to these people even though the convention definition, in itself, does
not specifically include victims of civil war.

In other countries, authoritarian governments exercise a reign of terror over
their citizens with arrests, imprisonment and torture, often at random, in a
campaign aimed at keeping the whole population in a state of fear.

While some of these people are victims of individual poltical persecution,
others, selected randomly, are not covered by the UN Convention definition of a
refugee.

Countries in Central America use an extended version of the UN definition which
includes the qualification that refugees are "persons who have fled their
country because their lives, safety or freedom have been threatened by . . .
massive human rights violations".

There are millions of people around the world who meet all the criteria of the
UN Convention except that they have not left their homeland. These people are
called internally displaced persons.

Often these people have been forced from their homes by civil war, persecution,
or natural disasters and have taken refuge in another part of their country.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1993 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              787 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                       May 11, 1993 Tuesday Final Edition

Canada favors men as refugees talks told

SOURCE: FROM THE OTTAWA CITIZEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 343 words

DATELINE: TORONTO


Most of the world's 18-million refugees are women and children, but it's mainly
men who are granted asylum in safe countries like Canada, a conference on
refugees has been told.

Monica Boyd, a sociologist at Florida State University, analysed Canadian
Immigration Department data over a decade.

Of the people accepted by Canada as refugees between 1981 and 1991, 48 per cent
were men and 27 per cent were women. The remainder were children.

Ms Boyd said she expects the numbers would be similar in the United States and
Western Europe.

That's partly because single men are more able and willing to travel to Canada
and claim refugee status upon arrival. Men are also more likely to have the
money and connections needed to leave their home countries.

Sometimes the men act as "scouts" seeking haven in Canada, then sending for
other family members later, adds Ms Boyd.

Refugees must prove they face persecution at home because of their race,
religion, nationality and political opinions.

Of those who make it to Canada and claim asylum, women are more likely to be
accepted as refugees, said Ms Boyd. Sixty-four per cent of female refugee
claimants in 1992 were accepted, compared to 58 per cent of men.

About 33,000 of the 52,000 refugees Canada will accept this year travel on their
own to Canada, show up at the border and claim asylum.

Canadian immigration officials will also choose about 19,000 refugees from camps
abroad this year. Most of those refugees are also men, said Ms Boyd, although
she didn't have exact statistics.

That's because immigration officers abroad decide how well refugees will be able
to settle in Canada, considering such things as education, work experience and
"personal suitability."

Female refugees, most of whom are from Africa, the Middle East and Asia, are
less likely to have education or work experience. Officials might decide a
single mother with five children from Africa who had never worked outside the
home would not be a good candidate for relocation in Canada, Ms Boyd said in an
interview.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Metroland Media Group Ltd


                              788 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               February 22, 1993

Boxer urges US blacks to help Africa

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 204 words


Nairobi, Sunday

WORLD heavyweight boxing champion Riddick Bowe today accused wealthy and
powerful American blacks of doing little to avert strife or ease the suffering
of millions of starving Africans.

"I must admit rich and powerful black men have done little in helping to end
strife or feed hungry millions. I call upon them to show more concern for our
brothers," Bowe said.

"It is very unfortunate that these leaders and the community do not pay much
attention to Africa," he told a news conference after arriving in Nairobi on his
way to Somalia, accompanied by his wife Julie.

Government officials said Bowe would visit refugee camps in northern Kenya and
hand over 30,000 tonnes of medicines donated by the US agency Americare. A
further 10,000 tonnes will be flown to Somalia on a plane chartered by Bowe.

The champion, who dethroned Evander Holyfield last November, will also hold
talks with US special envoy for Somalia Robert Oakley during his one-day trip,
US officials said.

Bowe has said he will donate part of proceeds from his next title defence to
Somalia.

"With my new-found wealth, I want to help others. It is my contribution to the
building of my continent," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.


                              789 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            January 10, 1993, Sunday

Q & A ON THE NEWS

BYLINE: Betty Parham and Gerrie Ferrisinternational; public; government;
relations

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Section A; Page 2

LENGTH: 513 words


Do you have a question about the news local, national or international? Betty
Parham and Gerrie Ferris will try to get and answer for you. Call 222-2002 on a
touch-tone phone and follow the instructions.

Q: What is the Marine commandant's position on women in combat? I've heard that
by law they can't be sent into combat, but I've seen pictures of women Marines
in Somalia with rifles. Do they go out on patrols?

Julia Miller, Atlanta

A: They do not go out on patrols. Gen. Carl Mundy, the Marine commandant, is
opposed to putting women in front-line positions such as in rifle companies,
said a Marine Corps spokesman. Women Marines in combat zones serve mainly in
support positions such as logistics and communications. But because there is no
perceived behind-the-lines area in Somalia, they can wind up in defensive
positions. Their training is identical to that of their male counterparts, so
they could defend themselves with their weapons if necessary.

Q: Are the Cubans who just flew in recently considered refugees? Explain exactly
what is a refugee, and how many are there in the United States and worldwide?

Ann Lipsky, Athens

A: Refugees, according to Hazel Wright of the State Department's Bureau of
Refugees, are people who have been found to have a well-founded fear of
persecution for political, racial, religious or nationality reasons and have
gone to a U.S. Embassy or U.S. Consulate in their country and applied and been
processed to come to the United States.

They do not include those who come with visas, who are not suffering
persecution, who come to join family members or who come through an immigration
lottery process. They also do not include people who arrive illegally and
request asylum; those people may or may be granted asylum. Cubans, because of
U.S. laws passed during the height of tension between the United States and
Cuba, are in a different category. Generally they are allowed in.

In 1993, Ms. Wright said, 132,000 refugees will be permitted to enter the United
States. (Last year 142,000 were admitted.) The region of origin breakdown will
be ex-Soviet republics, 50,000; East and South Asia, 59,000; Africa, 7,000;
Latin America and the Caribbean (mostly Cubans and Haitians), 3,500; Eastern
Europe, 1,500; unallocated, 11,000.

Congress mandates the funding, the number of refugees and the location from
which they will be received. Although the Refugee Bureau can shift numbers from
area to area, if a vast number of people from an area were eligible, the bureau
would have to ask Congress for more money or more slots.

From 1980 to 1992, 1.2 million refugees were allowed into the United States.
There are 17 million refugees in the world.

Q: What is the difference between a Muslim and a Moslem?

Bill Sanders, Tucker

A: They are the same thing; the difference is a matter of spelling and
pronunciation. Moslem had been more widely used in English to refer to an
adherent of Islam, but that usage has declined in favor of Muslim. The old terms
Mohammedan and Mohammedanism have always been rejected by Muslims.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH930200162

                    Copyright 1993 The Atlanta Constitution


                              790 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                           September 21, 1992, Monday

ELECTION '92 THE CANDIDATES ON FOREIGN POLICY The world according to George
Bush, Bill Clinton

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Section A; Page 6

LENGTH: 597 words


1. Mexico and Canada

-Mr. Bush announced a North America Free Trade Agreement, saying it will allow
American companies to increase sales "from Alaska to the Yucatan." Mr. Bush
promises "it will create jobs and generate economic growth in the United States,
Canada and Mexico.

- Mr. Clinton said he favors free trade in principle, but has called such a deal
"a double-edged sword." He said Mexico should commit itself to increased wages
and improved working conditions, and that American farm goods should be exempted
when grown under tighter U.S. environmental rules.

2. Cuba

-Both candidates agree: Congress should tighten the American economic embargo to
weaken Cuban leader Fidel Castro.

3. Haiti

-Mr. Bush sent Coast Guard ships to intercept Haitian refugees and return them
to Haiti, explaining that the flow of exiles had overwhelmed a temporary U.S.
refugee camp for Haitians at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

- Mr. Clinton: "I don't believe the Haitians should be sent back to Haiti . . .
I think they are political exiles and should be treated as such until we can
bring back an elected government to Haiti."

4. Africa

-Mr. Bush: While the 16-year civil war in Angola was not a priority, his
administration brokered an end to the conflict. U.S. planes are flying food aid
to alleviate "senseless" suffering in Somalia.

- Mr. Clinton has not stressed Africa policy either, but says "there are great
opportunities for the United States to engage the democratic nations of Africa
in emerging trade and cultural interchange."

5. Iraq

-Mr. Bush recently ordered American warplanes to begin enforcing a "no fly zone"
in southern Iraq aimed at protecting Iraqi Shiite dissidents from Iraqi
government persecution.

- Mr. Clinton called it "an appropriate thing to do" and has promised to
champion "the cause of freedom and democracy" in Iraq.

6. Russia

-Mr. Bush pushed through Congress a Russian aid package, including a $ 3 billion
U.S. contribution to a ruble stabilization fund.

- Mr. Clinton had chided Mr. Bush for being too cautious in backing aid to
Russia, saying, "I would help them with an assistance package, because I think
it's consistent with my theme of putting the interests of the American people
first."

7. China

-Mr. Bush relied on behind-the-scenes diplomacy to encourage a lessening of
internal repression. He vetoed congressional restrictions on trade with China,
saying this would amount to an "ultimatum."

-Mr. Clinton assails Mr. Bush for not being tough enough on human rights in
China.

8. Israel

Mr. Bush delayed $ 10 billion Israel loan guarantees, seeking to pressure Israel
to stop West Bank Jewish settlements and to speed the Mideast peace talks. After
election, the new Israeli government promised to freeze settlements and Mr. Bush
approved the loan guarantees.

-Mr. Clinton also backs the loan guarantees, but says that Bush "has gravely
harmed our relations with Israel [because it] wrongly pressured Israel to make
one-sided concessions."

9. Yugoslavia

-This spring, the civil war in Yugoslavia brought out the clearest foreign
policy difference between Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton. The president refused to
order U.S. troops and warplanes to escort humanitarian convoys in the region;
Mr. Clinton said U.S. bombing might be necessary to end atrocities in Bosnia.

10. Syria

-Mr. Bush drew Syria into the 1991 anti-Iraq military alliance and later made
Syria a major participant in the Mideast peace talks.

-Mr. Clinton attacks Bush for turning "a blind eye on Syria's human rights
abuses and its support for terrorism."

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH922670062

                    Copyright 1992 The Atlanta Constitution


                              791 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 September 20, 1992, SUNDAY, THREE STAR Edition

BISHOP PLANS ACTIVIST ROLE IN W. AFRICA AS PASTOR, HENNING WORKED FOR RIGHTS

BYLINE: Kathryn Rogers Post-Dispatch Religion Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 595 words


Bishop C. Garnett Henning will take to his new job in Africa the same kind of
activism that has made his reputation in St. Louis as an outspoken civil rights
advocate.  Starting in November, Henning, 56, will serve an African Methodist
Episcopal Church district in West Africa that has been devastated by civil war
and poverty. It includes Liberia, Ghana and Nigeria.  Because his new people
need more than prayers, Henning says he's unlikely to confine his service to
typical ministerial duties.  ''Some would define my role as being there and
serving through prayers and teachings,'' Henning says. ''But I'm not sure just
performing priestly functions is the best for them.'' The best service, he said,
might be developing financial and other resources here in the United States to
help the Africans. In other words, Henning appears to want to keep to his
longstanding practice of speaking out and acting on behalf of his people.
Henning has been pastor of St. Paul's AME Church in St. Louis for the last 12
years. A few examples of his activities on behalf of human rights include: A
fast for the United Farm Workers to support a grape boycott in 1988.
Participation in a protest in 1990 in St. Louis County against racist practices
in the construction industry.  A suit he filed in 1989 to block a sales-tax
election in the county, saying sales taxes were regressive.  A protest against
U.S. involvement in the Persian Gulf War, charging that the war was built on the
backs of black Americans. He is founder of the St. Louis Committee for Equal
Justice.  ''I have been very, very careful to define my activities outside the
church as Christian activism, rather than social activism,'' Henning said in an
interview last week. ''There may be social impact, but the motivation is from my
faith. I think people in the church are concerned that the church not abandon
its role in the prophetic function.'' Henning sees his election as bishop last
month as representing ''a heightened expectation of a greater level of activism
on the part of the church.'' ''I was more a people's choice,'' he said. ''I was
definitely not an official choice.'' Henning ended his pastorate in St. Louis
two weeks ago and moved to Los Angeles, where he is now learning about the
administrative and ministerial duties of an AME bishop. He will go to Africa
alone in November for a few months and then return after the first of the year.
His wife, Ernestine Lee Henning, then will go back with him.  Henning eventually
wants to live in Liberia, where, he said, 300 members of the AME Church have
been killed in the civil war. Many refugees from the war include AME Liberians
who have fled to Ghana and Sierra Leone, also in Henning's new district.  St.
Paul AME Church has had a ministry to Africa for some time, having ''adopted''
several African churches and families. The church also has contributed to the
Richard Allen School For Girls in Sierre Leone, Henning said.  Henning says he
wants ''an indigenous relationship'' with the people in his new district. ''I'm
not a bishop who serves from an official position,'' he said. ''I want to know
enough to empathize.'' He said he also hoped to expand the church and ''claim
others for the faith.'' Henning isn't worried about danger from the war, he
said. ''I expect that as an American, I would be given some warning if needed,''
he said.  The Hennings have two daughters, Helaine Aleece Henning of St. Louis
and Carma Garnette Henning of Los Angeles. Their son, C. Garnett Henning Jr.,
was killed in a car accident in 1989.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO HEADSHOT of Bishop C. Garnett Henning ... ''Motivation is
from my faith''

                  Copyright 1992 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              792 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                          September 9, 1992, Wednesday

The march of refugees

BYLINE: By Jonathan Powerinternational; immigration; aid; war; opinion

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Section A; Page 13

LENGTH: 817 words


Dusseldorf, Germany - Three years ago refugees flooding from east to west were
instrumental in bringing down the Berlin Wall, the single most sinister symbol
of the Cold War. Now anti-refugee riots flaring up in ex- East Germany have
become the ugliest reminder of what was worst in the former communist
dictatorship, a propensity to vitriolic intolerance.

Yet, here in the prosperous, educated, former West Germany, there are
significant numbers of Germans who are taking Yugoslav refugees into their
homes. Germans today make more effort than most to lend a hand to the underdog
and dispossessed.

Last year, Germany took in 40 percent of all the refugees admitted to the West,
a quarter-million of them. The Germans are now struggling with a constitution
that ties them to the open door. The Germans cannot cope. But can anyone else?
In 1951, there were only 1.5 million refugees. By 1980, there were 8.2 million.
Today there are 18 million.

Contrary to myth, it is not the United States that has the widest door of
welcome. It is not Europe either, even though it takes in six times as many as
America. It is the Third World. The great majority of refugees seek - and are
given - shelter in the world's poorer countries. Among the 20 African countries
most critically affected by famine, 13 are hosting - for the most part
voluntarily - a substantial number of refugees.

Contrary to myth, aid to refugees has not always been humanitarian and benign.
The United States consciously used its "refugee aid" to underpin the Afghani
refugee/guerrillas based in Pakistan, and U.N. relief and food agencies were
pressed by the big western nations to support the Khmer Rouge camps in Thailand,
even though they were transparently used as military training centers. The
crisis today in the Horn of Africa is very much rooted in the geo-political
competition between Moscow and Washington in the 1970s and '80s that used
international relief programs to support one refugee warrior group against

The reduction of tension between the old superpowers, and their disengagement
from many of the regional and internal conflicts that generated so many refugees
in the past, does make it easier, in a number of cases, to both wind down the
fighting and send the refugees home. (The United Nations High Commission for
Refugees is attempting to raise funds to sustain 20 such repatriation programs.)
Nevertheless, what is apparent in Yugoslavia and the upheavals in the former
Soviet Union is that the end of the rival meddling of the United States and the
U.S.S.R. is of little significance to a number of deep-rooted nationalistic and
ethnic conflicts.

At one time, outsiders could afford to detach themselves from much of the
consequences of their actions - or others' actions. These days, television takes
us into the abyss of every crisis, and cheap, fast transport brings the fleeing
bodies to the nearest open door.

But asylum policies are universally incoherent and ineffective. The total cost
in Europe of processing asylum applications and feeding, clothing and housing
refugees while they await a decision on their admittance is an extraordinary $ 7
billion a year. This is 10 times the annual worldwide expenditure of the U.N.
High Commission for Refugees.

The relatively recent spate of unwanted migrations, Kurds from Iraq, Vietnamese
to Hong Kong, Haitians to the United States, Bhutans to Nepal and Yugoslavs to
Germany, raises the question of whether the world can go on tolerating internal
actions and policies, once considered a country's own business - "the sovereign
right to be brutal," as one cynic aptly described it - when they have such a
profound impact on a neighbor's well- being, security and stability.

For the first time ever, when Saddam Hussein attacked Iraq's Kurdish population
and refugees poured over the mountains into Turkey and Iran, the world said no.
U.N. Security Council Resolution 688 was a marker for our times. It was the
first time a Security Council resolution explicitly stated that the
international community had a right to intervene with humanitarian aid to
protect a people, even if its state did not agree.

Perhaps we have to prepare ourselves for more of this kind of action in the
future, though clearly in Yugoslavia the conflict is so far gone and so
complicated that simple military action a la Kurds is not realistic or
practical. Notwithstanding, there are many situations in which a far-sighted
step before a situation spins out of control could stem a refugee crisis in the
making. This is why the peacekeepers should have gone into Yugoslavia at the
beginning of the crisis. And why the peacekeepers arriving in Somalia are a year
too late.

Preemptive peacekeeping to staunch further refugees is a topic the world
community needs to start to debate in a hurry.

Jonathan Powers is a columnist for the International Herald Tribune.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH922550191

                    Copyright 1992 The Atlanta Constitution


                              793 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                              July 24, 1992 Friday

Immigration falling short of target   Advocates challenge Canada's commitment to
refugees

BYLINE: ESTANISLAO OZIEWICZ; GAM

LENGTH: 696 words


BY ESTANISLAO OZIEWICZ
Immigration Reporter
Canada likely will fall well short of its target of 250,000 immigrants for
this year, based on "landing" levels for the first three months, a senior
Immigration Department official confirms.

The anticipated shortfall this year follows on the heels of one last
year, when Canada had an overall immigrant target of 220,000 but admitted
205,650.

According to recent Immigration Department statistics, Canada landed
53,543 immigrants for the first three months of this year. ("Landing"
means permission to come into Canada to establish permanent residence.)
   If that trend continues, said Meyer Burstein, the department's director
of strategic planning, the department will undershoot the 250,000 target
set by Parliament in the second year of the Conservative government's
five-year immigration plan.

The levels in the plan were determined after nation-wide consultations.
Immigration Department officials say the size and mix of immigrant
categories are designed to meet the country's economic, social and
humanitarian objectives. For example, judging by numbers alone, the
family-class category (with a target of 100,000 of the 250,000 total this
year) is the most important component.

"The shortfalls are likely to be in refugee categories," Mr. Burstein
said.

Nancy Worsfold, executive director of the Montreal-based Canadian
Council for Refugees, said yesterday that the figures show a weakening
commitment by Canada to the humanitarian ideals it espouses on refugees.

For many refugee advocates it is ironic that at a time of burgeoning
refugee populations worldwide, Canada would not meet its refugee targets.
(The targets do not include those admitted to Canada after passing through
the refugee-determination system for those in the backlog prior to Jan. 1,
1989. Last year, 24,080 in the backlog were landed as permanent residents)
   "I think it is true that for the majority of the world's refugees,
resettlement is the wrong answer," James Hathaway, a refugee specialist at
Osgoode Hall Law School, said in an interview yesterday. "But on the other
hand, the target is low and they (immigration officials) don't do a very
good job of filling it."

Mr. Burstein also said there has been an increase in the number of
people not using the visas issued to them, a situation the department
calls "visa wastage," and an increase in the length of time that potential
immigrants take before using their visas to enter Canada. Immigrant visas
are generally valid for up to one year from the time of medical clearance.

Department officials are concerned about the anticipated immigrant
shortfall for various reasons. If the deficit ends up including skilled
workers, for example, that could jeopardize Canada's future economic
prosperity.

"We try to manage to attain the targets and it's something we look at
on a regular basis," said Mr. Burstein.

For the first quarter of this year, the department is getting fewer
immigrants from Africa and the Middle East, Europe and Britain, but more
from the Asia-Pacific region, Central and South America, and the United
States.

The top 10 source countries were Hong Kong, Sri Lanka, Poland, India,
the Philippines, China, Lebanon, Iran, the United States and Taiwan.

Carter Hoppe, chairman of the immigration section of the Canadian Bar
Association (Ontario), said yesterday the shortfall indicates that the
retroactivity measures in the new immigration legislation before
Parliament are not needed.

"One of the most controversial aspects of the new immigration
legislation introduced last month, Bill C-86, is a provision to allow the
government to retroactively disqualify immigrants' applicants in process,"
he said.

"One of the reasons given by the government for the need for this
drastic power was the supposed fact that Canada had a tremendous backlog
of applications in process around the world. And the retroactivity power
would be necessary to bring the numbers down into more manageable
quantities.

"Obviously, the government has been misled by their experience in the
latter part of the eighties. If, in fact, Canada will be lucky to come
within 80 per cent of its global target, we certainly don't need a
retroactive disqualification power."

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1992 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              794 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            June 24, 1992 Wednesday

It is easy to exercise power against those who have none   REFUGEES"Moral
bankruptcy is at the root of Canada's   proposed treatment of those who come
here seeking protection

BYLINE: EDWARD HYLAND; GAM

LENGTH: 950 words


BY EDWARD HYLAND
  O NE day, I was speaking with a Tamil who recounted how the Sri Lankan
army had, on separate occasions, "disappeared" his son and burned his
crops. "Why did they do this to me? What harm could I cause them?" he
asked. Weakly, I mumbled something about the soldiers being afraid that
his son might join the guerrillas or that he might give food to them.

With great weariness and sadness he simply shook his head. "No," he
said, "they did this because they had guns and uniforms and power. And I
am a poor and powerless man. They took my son and destroyed my food
because it's easy to exercise power against those who have none. It's like
that everywhere in the world."

Immigration Minister Bernard Valcourt and his army of policy advisers
have given us an example of what my friend from Sri Lanka meant. Designed
to keep more refugee claimants out of Canada, the recently proposed
changes to the Immigration Act reveal how easy it is for the power of the
Canadian government to come down hard on those who have no power, like
refugee claimants.

The government's justification is familiar: the number of claimants is
getting out of control; the refugee system is riddled with abusers trying
to get around our regular immigration channels; there are criminals posing
as refugees trying to come to Canada; we can't let every refugee in the
world come here.

Curiously, Mr. Valcourt and his officials never talk in terms of hard
figures. Yes, it is true that in the past decade the number of refugee
claimants has increased significantly. What the government conveniently
neglects to point out is that the total refugee population worldwide has
also increased in that time - from seven million in 1983 to 17 million in
1991. As a proportion of the total refugee population, the number of
claimants who came to Canada last year represented just 0.18 per cent. The
vast majority (96 per cent) of the world's refugees are in developing
countries in Africa, Asia, the Middle East and Latin America.

Abusers? Again, one wonders what Mr. Valcourt is talking about when
Canadian officials judge that more than 95 per cent of all claims have
some degree of credible basis, requiring a closer examination. It is
simply untrue to say that refugee claims in Canada are abusive or
manifestly unfounded.

Refugees flee for their lives and often they have to use false
documents to escape because their government won't give them a passport or
an exit visa. Sometimes it's hard for us in Canada to understand this.

So what do the proposed amendments to the act hold in store for
refugees? Well, immigration officers at the border will be able, on their
own, to determine whether a person can even make a refugee claim. With the
current system immigration officers are supposed to ask people if they
want to make a refugee claim, but this will no longer be the case. With
greater power in their hands, immigration officers will be able to turn
away more people. The government's target is a 40 per cent reduction in
claims.

The minister will have authority to enter into agreements with other
countries, such as the United States or the European countries, to send
claimants to those countries when they could have made a refugee claim
there. So, for example, Guatemalans passing through the United States on
their way to Canada to make a claim would be turned back to the United
States and be forced to make their claim there. The problem is that in the
absence of standards of protection in these third countries we will have
failed in our obligation to protect those who come seeking refuge with us.

Other measures to keep refugees from making it to Canada include
tougher fines against airlines that bring refugees who do not have proper
documentation; fingerprinting and photographing refugee claimants to see
whether a person has made a claim in another country and if so sending him
or her back to the country where the claim was made; designation by
Cabinet of countries deemed safe, where people can make claims if they
pass through them before arriving in Canada; directing people who arrive
through the United States back there.

A claimant who manages to make it past the stricter immigration screens
will find a refugee-determination system that is streamlined, with the
elimination of the credible-basis stage. However, if someone's claim is
rejected, the appeal remedies available are even weaker than now, as the
person will only be able to go before a single judge of the trial division
of the Federal Court of Canada, as opposed to a three-judge panel of the
Federal Court of Appeal.

Moreover, the person still will not be able to introduce new
information or have the court examine the merits of the claim, but simply
appeal on points of law. And while awaiting the court's decision the
person can be removed from Canada.

Canada has legitimate concerns in managing its immigration program
well. However, the government continues to fail to understand the
difference between immigration concerns rooted in the national interest
and the obligation under international law to protect the right of people
fleeing persecution and violence to seek asylum. The changes recently
announced undermine that right and weaken Canada's commitment to protect
refugees.

Recently, a senior immigration official protested that his job wasn't
to deal with refugees but to make policy about them. Such moral bankruptcy
is at the root of the new amendments and Canada's proposed treatment of
those who come here seeking protection. It is also why, as my Sri Lankan
friend said, it is easy to exercise power against those who have none.
  Edward Hyland is director of the Jesuit Centre for Social Faith and
Justice in Toronto and a member of the board of the Inter-Church Committee
for Refugees.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1992 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              795 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  June 1, 1992

Haiti's boat people show downside of sanctions

BYLINE: Patrick Brogan

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 581 words


Washington, Sunday

THE United States Coast Guard is returning hundreds of Haitians to their
miserable homeland every day, a reminder of the doubtful effects of economic
sanctions.

An economic blockade of Haiti was imposed after the coup in September last year.
Only medicine and humanitarian aid is allowed in.

These are the same conditions that have applied to Iraq since August 1990, and
that have just been imposed upon Serbia.

Haiti was already the poorest country in the western hemisphere. Now most of its
six million people are on the edge of starvation and desperate peasants are
cutting down the last trees for fuel: all oil imports are banned. Soon Haiti
will be an over-populated desert.

Thousands take to the seas, buying places on crowded boats in which they try to
reach America. The Coast Guard intercepts them. About 12,000 people, plucked
from the sea, many of them saved from drowning, are now being kept in tents in
the American base at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba.

Now the Americans simply stop the refugee boats, take everyone on board, and
ship them straight back to Haiti. This draconian rule, imposed last week, has
yet to stem the flow.

The American contention is that these are not political refugees, who would be
entitled to sanctuary in the United States. They are economic refugees and the
US wants none of them.

The torrent of immigrants pouring into the United States from Mexico, the
Caribbean, and Asia has changed the demography of Florida and the south-west.

In Los Angeles 40% of the people were born abroad, in Latin America, or in Asia,
particularly Korea, and the conflicts arising from the presence of this immense
mass of foreigners were among the causes of the riots.

Haitians and their champions claim that they are turned back because they are
black, poor, and illiterate. They note that Cubans who manage to escape Fidel
Castro's communist paradise are all welcomed.

Miami is now a Cuban city, and there is constant tension between American blacks
and Hispanic immigrants, also between Hispanics and Haitians.

A year ago, the State Department was highly critical of Britain for proposing to
send home Vietnamese refugees from Hong Kong. The American papers have been full
of the European backlash against immigrants from North Africa, the Middle East,
and Eastern Europe.

What is happening to the Haitians is demonstration enough that the North-South
problem is world-wide.

It is also proof that sanctions work slowly, if at all. No-one has much doubt
that Serb leader Slobodan Milosevic will do as well as Saddam Hussein, despite
UN sanctions, and Colonel Muammar Gaddafi is merely inconvenienced by the
sanctions imposed on Libya.

The difference between these three cases and Haiti is that the fascist
governments of Iraq and Serbia will manage to feed their people, but the
Haitians will starve.

Soon President Bush will be faced with the choice of lifting the sanctions or
invading Haiti. The world cannot allow the imminent disaster in Haiti, however
worthy the cause of restoring President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.

It is hard to see Mr Bush sending the Marines into Haiti unless there is some
further act of extreme violence there or a direct provocation. Americans are not
in the mood to police the Third World, nor even the Caribbean, and this is an
election year.

So perhaps sanctions against Haiti will be abandoned, just as they are being
imposed on Serbia.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: No escape: Haitians aboard a crowded boat which US coastguards
intercepted and sent back to Haiti. The US naval base in Cuba refuses to accept
any more refugees

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.


                              796 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             May 16, 1992 Saturday

REFUGEES   WHERE THERE ARE NO HAPPY ENDINGS   Land of Dreams is full of
emotional intensity and   uncompromising in its political bitterness. That said,
every frame is worth watching. TVO, Wednesday, 9 p.m.

BYLINE: SHIRLEY KNOTT; GAM

LENGTH: 656 words


BY SHIRLEY KNOTT
Let's start with a promising idea for a TV movie. The subject is political
refugees. There are as many possible dramatic plots as there are refugees
pouring into countries across Europe and North America every day. Their
numbers are overwhelming and so are their stories. The question is this:
what kind of stories do Canadian and British audiences see on their TV
screens?

In a recent Canadian attempt, we got a widow, three waifs and a hero in
a white coat battling injustice with his stethescope. It all started with
a family who had escaped the Death Squads in Central America. Along the
way, the husband is caught by American officials and sent back to his
death. The widow ends up in Toronto working illegally in a sweatshop while
her three kids hide out in a squalid flat.

As if all this weren't enough to wring tears from a troll, her baby
dies. That's when the crusading doctor comes to the rescue - battling
immigration officials, hospital bureaucrats and the heartless system of
the law. This was the story seen a few months back in the CBC's Wojeck:
Out of the Fire.

In the British movie Land of Dreams, this week on TVO, a black South
African gets off a plane in London with a forged passport and a story
about being a teacher with no political ties. That's not quite the truth.
The fact is that he's wanted in South Africa for the necklacing murder of
a policeman. He's been in and out of prison for demanding better education
for blacks, and now if he's sent back, he faces a rigged trial. There is
not much his cynical lawyer in London or his squiffy neighbour can do to
help him.

Land of Dreams couldn't have been made here in Canada. The main
character is too black, too foreign-sounding and too fond of quoting
poetry. As well, the story is too bleak, too claustrophobic in its
emotional intensity, too uncompromising in its political bitterness, and
there is no happy ending.

Land of Dreams is Joseph Mnwans's story. When he leaves South Africa,
he isn't looking for any happy endings, only a chance to go on living.
Back in South Africa, he faces a cell on Death Row. In England, he faces a
life in dingy bed-sits feeding coins into an electric heater to fend off
the damp misery of the English weather and English indifference. As a
teacher and community leader in his homeland, he was a respected man. Here
in England, his lawyer tells him, "You're just another poor nigger."

As a refugee, Joseph has lost everything - his home, family, job and
the passion of his cause. Being a refugee means being utterly
dispossessed. It also means weeks and months of answering questions,
filling out forms, filing applications, launching appeals and waiting.

For Joseph, there are alternatives. He could marry the breezy, boozy
girl next door who offers herself as his ticket to freedom. He could even
go back, as his lawyer suggests, to be a hero and martyr to the cause.
Joseph believes he can choose his own way and then discovers that being a
refugee means having no real choices at all.

For all its blunt and gritty honesty, there are moments of simple fun
in Land of Dreams. "My mother once set my hair fire," says Rudi Davies as
the next door neighbour with a whiskey-twinkle in her eye. "But she was
drunk, so it must have been an accident." As Joseph, Patrick Shai manages
to overcome some of the obvious sentimentality of the script and fill the
screen with a visceral sense of desperate confusion, fear and frustration.
Through it all, the music score jumps, jingles and soars with the voices
and rhythms of Africa.

But to get back to the comparison between the Canadian and British TV
versions of the refugee story, it has to be said that both movies aim at a
kind of realism. The question is how real? How many refugees can actually
thank a crusading doctor for helping them get a stamp on their immigration
papers? On the other hand, how many refugees have spent weeks and months
waiting for the final notice of rejection and the one-way ticket back?

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1992 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              797 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The Daily Yomiuri

                            April 23, 1992, Thursday

U.N. Official: Refugees Get Chance To Go Home

BYLINE: Virginia Van Natta; Daily Yomiuri Staff Writer

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 477 words


More than half of the estimated 17 million refugees in the world have a chance
at repatriation, rather than resettlement in a new country, U.N. High
Commissioner for Refugees Sadako Ogata said in Tokyo Wednesday night.

Ogata, who was elected to a three-year post by the U.N. General Assembly in
1991, said 28 million refugees have been helped since the Commission was founded
41 years ago.

She said that until recently most refugees were resettled in new countries,
particularly the United States, Canada, Australia and the Nordic countries. But
now, more refugees are able to return to their homelands.

"The trend is changing and resettlement as an option is slowly drying up," Ogata
said in a press conference at Tokyo's Imperial Hotel.

She cited the sheer number of refugees, an increase in the number of countries
less willing to accept immigrants and an improvement in the chance for
repatriation as cause for the reversal.

Although 8 million refugees will have to wait for "a peace settlement of some
sort" before being allowed to return home, political changes in 20 countries,
mainly in Africa and the former Soviet Union, are opening up other possibilities
for solving refugee problems.

"Whenever a ceasefire is agreed upon and peace is restored in a country, the
voluntary repatriation of refugees becomes a reality," Ogata said.

"The most recent returns involve South Africa where political exiles have begun
to return home," she said.

Angola is expecting 300,000 repatriated refugees and in Mozambique, where the
government and opposition groups are talking peace after a lengthy civil war,
more than 1 million refugees are expected to return home, she said.

Last month, 350,000 Cambodians began a mass influx back to their homeland after
12 years in exile in camps along the Thai border.

"Prolonged civil war has left the country a virtual minefield," according to
Ogata.

"On March 30, the first group of 526 persons returned from Thailand to
Cambodia," she said, and 2,754 refugees have returned in six convoys to
Cambodia, 713 of whom returned to their villages.

The cost of repatriating millions of refugees is staggering and, according to
Ogata, Japan has become increasingly generous. In 1991, Japan's donation to the
commission was over $100 million, compared to $10 million in 1978.

"The contribution from the Japanese private sector in 1991 was the largest,
accounting for over 70 percent of all the private sector contributions" received
by the commission, Ogata said.

Japan and the United States provide more than one-third of the resources for the
commission, she said.

Ogata said Japan's geographic position keeps it from being a destination for
refugees. "Japan is not a frontline state ... The number of asylum-seekers
coming to Japan will not be as large as that coming to Europe," she said.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                        Copyright 1992 The Daily Yomiuri


                              798 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                           February 4, 1992, Tuesday

Victims of Cold War? Critics blame left-over anti-Communist policies,
election-year jitters for closed door to fleeing Haitians.

BYLINE: By Deborah Scroggins STAFF WRITERunited/states; immigration; policy;
haiti; international; statistics

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Section A; Page 1

LENGTH: 678 words


U.S. refugee policies that are a relic of the Cold War and election- year
worries are driving the Bush administration's forced return of thousands of
Haitian boat people, administration critics charged Monday.

The Coast Guard shipped the first 381 Haitians back to the economic and
political chaos of their country Monday, after the Supreme Court lifted an
injunction barring their forced return over the weekend.

The government is expected to repatriate more than 6,000 others encamped at the
U.S. Naval Station at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, who say they fear political
persecution at the hands of Haiti's military dictatorship.

The Bush administration has said only 3,609 of the about 11,000 Haitians at
Guantanamo Bay qualify to apply for political asylum in the United States. But
politicians and refugee advocates claim the administration is judging the
Haitians by different standards than Soviet or Vietnamese refugees because the
Haitians are poor, black and persecuted by the wrong people.

Also, almost all Cubans fleeing the Communist regime of Fidel Castro are granted
political asylum in the United States.

"Unfortunately, the question of who gets asylum is largely based on political
considerations," said Hiram Ruiz, a policy analyst at the U.S. Committee for
Refugees, a non-profit group in Washington, D.C.

"In the case of Haiti, the political consideration is not whether these
individuals have a legitimate fear of political persecution, but what impact the
arrival of a large number of poor, rural, not very well- educated people will
have on this country."

State Department officials contend the Haitians are seeking economic
opportunities in the United States, and they point out that only a handful have
fled to the neighboring Dominican Republic. But some privately admit that
refugee policies left over from the Cold War still make it difficult for people
fleeing non-Communist dictatorships to receive refugee status.

Each year the State Department and Congress jointly work out a system of
regional refugee quotas, and each year all but a tiny number of spots go to
people fleeing Communist countries.

Of the 1,203,609 refugees admitted to the United States since 1981, 94 percent
have come from Communist countries.

Despite the end of the Cold War, refugee policies remain focused on the former
Soviet empire, partly out of inertia and partly because of strong lobbying
interests. Refugees from the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe will make up 43
percent of the refugees resettled in the United States this year,
notwithstanding the election of democratic governments in their homelands.

American Jewish organizations have lobbied fiercely to reserve a high quota for
Soviet Jews, for example, and in recent years 80 percent of the Soviet newcomers
have been Jewish.

"It would be naive not to admit that the existence of a strong American
constituency makes a difference," said a State Department official who insisted
on anonymity. "If a group has the ear of Congress, the ear of the
administration, it can't hurt."

Vietnamese refugees will make up another 35 percent of those resettled this
year.

Though soldiers overthrew Haiti's first democratically elected president,
Jean-Bertrand Aristide, in September, no places were reserved for Haitian
refugees.

Democrats say President Bush has pressed so hard to repatriate the Haitians
because he wants to ward off political attacks by Pat Buchanan. Mr. Buchanan, a
conservative challenger for the Republican presidential nomination, has
criticized Third World immigration.

Perhaps remembering the effect of the Mariel boatlift on President Jimmy
Carter's re-election campaign, however, the Democrats have been slow to act.
Several bills giving the Haitians temporary protected status in the United
States remained stuck in House and Senate committees Monday.

In a speech before Atlanta's Concerned Black Clergy, Nebraska Sen. Bob Kerrey
called the forced return of the Haitians "a terrible mistake." But the
presidential candidate said he did not know what to do about it.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Color photo: the first group of repatriated Haitian refugees leave a
U.S. Coast Guard cutter in Port-au-Prince. Ran only in The Atlanta
Constitution./ The Associated Press Bar graph: COUNTRY BY COUNTRY./ Ran only in
The Atlanta Constitution. Numbers of refugees admitted to the United states from
selected countries in 1991 Vietnamese......................... 44,179
Laotians..............................9,249
Iranians..............................2,692 Afghans.............................
1,480 Former Soviet Union republics........38,661
Romanians........................... 4,452
Ethiopians............................3,948
Cubans................................2,144 (Source: U.S. Committee for
Refugees) Pie graph: Percentage of refugees admitted to the United States
regions of the world 1991 U.S.S.R. and Europe.........41% Southwest
Asia...............5% Southeast Asia..............48% Latin America.
...............2% Africa.......................4% 1992 * U.S.S.R. and
Europe.........45% Southwest Asia...............4% Southeast
Asia..............37% Latin America................2% Africa.
......................4% Map: shade coded to show boundaries of regions listed
above - U.S.S.R and Europe, Southwest Asia, Southeast Asia, Latin America and
Africa. Ran only in The Atlanta Constitution.

                    Copyright 1992 The Atlanta Constitution


                              799 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                   January 23, 1992, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

High court chills hopes of asylum

BYLINE: Tony Mauro; Sandra Sanchez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 279 words


Refugees from strife-torn nations can be denied asylum in the U.S. under a
Supreme Court ruling Wednesday.

The 6-3 decision gives immigration officials broad discretion to deny refugee
status - even to applicants who fled their countries to escape service in
guerrilla forces.

Nearly 100,000 refugee applications may be pending, most from Central America.

Loser in the case: Jairo Jonathan Elias Zacarias, who left his native Guatemala
in 1987 at age 18 after masked gunmen tried to recruit him.

The court said Zacarias' story didn't fit the legal requirement that he show
persecution for ''political opinion.''

A refugee applicant must produce ''evidence so compelling that no reasonable
factfinder could fail to find the requisite fear of persecution,'' Justice
Antonin Scalia wrote.

That high standard is ''fundamentally anti-humanitarian,'' said Arthur Helton of
the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights. ''It will affect ... thousands of people
from countries with civil strife - El Salvador, South Africa, Guatemala,
Afghanistan, Haiti.''

Washington, D.C., immigration lawyer Michael Maggio said that under the court's
standard, ''If you were being forcibly recruited into the Nazi party of Germany
before they took power and you refused to attack Jews, you would be refused
political asylum.''

The fate of more than 6,000 Haitian refugees detained at a U.S. military base in
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, also was hanging in the balance Wednesday.

Justice Department official Kenneth Starr Wednesday argued before a federal
appeals court panel in Atlanta that they ''have no enforceable rights'' to
asylum, in part because they never reached the U.S. border.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Gannett Company, Inc.


                              800 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                  November 18, 1991 Monday Burlington Edition

Mercy flights to Africa teach stark lesson on good life

SOURCE: THE SPECTATOR

BYLINE: By STEVE ARNOLD

SECTION: TODAY; Pg. T6

LENGTH: 519 words


STARVATION AND desperate poverty may be routine for many Africans, but for
former Burlington resident Simon Round they were a pointed reminder of just how
good life in Canada can be.

For two weeks in September, the Canadian Armed Forces officer was part of a team
assigned to the United Nations for an emergency food convoy into strife-torn
Ethiopia.

Flying as the navigator of a Hercules transport plane, and landing on runways
marked by bomb craters, he made nearly 50 trips during that period.

"Ninety per cent of the airports we flew into were just strips in the middle of
the desert, and some of them were just barely bulldozed strips at that," said
the captain in an interview from his Oshawa home.

Capt. Round was part of one of several Canadian flight crews assigned to the
United Nations for the airlift into Ethiopia.

Working from bases in nearby Djibouti, they each carried up to 20 tonnes of
grain and soya meal donated by European countries and the United States.

Once unloaded in Ethiopia, the food supplies were turned over to the Red Cross
to be trucked to refugee camps -- some holding as many as 100,000 people.

"As soon as we landed, people who looked like frail little old men would start
to unload the airplane," he said.

"It took 40 minutes to get loaded in Djibouti and only 20 minutes for them to
unload the food. I guess that's the difference between being starving and having
plenty of food," said Capt. Round.

Among the UN agencies working to alleviate the desperate poverty of Africa is
UNICEF, represented in Burlington by Capt. Round's mother Jean, a pastoral lay
worker for St. Luke's Anglican Church.

According to information she supplied, years of civil war, drought and famine
have crippled Ethiopia. One in four children dies before reaching the age of
five, compared to eight deaths per thousand in Canada. The mortality rate for
women in childbirth is 40 times that of the industrialized world.

One-third of the children are seriously underweight and Ethiopia has the world's
highest illiteracy rate.

While a first visit to a Third World country can be a shock for many servicemen,
Capt. Round has made five other journey's to Africa, as well as South America
and Eastern Europe.

He is also a veteran of Operation Desert Storm.

"I'm proud to have been in the Gulf War, but this was a more enjoyable feeling,"
he said.

"The war was right and good, but here you know you are doing good things for
people and they appreciate it."

Although he didn't visit any of the refugee camps, Capt. Round said the sights
and smells of poverty are never far from the mind during any visit to Africa,
even in the heart of major cities.

"There are always beggars in the streets, men sitting on a little piece of
cardboard that they put over themselves at night," he said. "The more I travel,
the more I realize just how good life can be here."

The work of agencies such as UNICEF is supported by the sale of Christmas cards,
stationery, books toys and gift items. In Burlington, that merchandise is
available at Burlington Mall and Mapleview Centre until Nov. 23.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Special to The Spectator Sacks of food are unloaded at an Ethiopian air
strip from a Canadian Hercules bearing the UN emblem.

TYPE: News

                    Copyright 1991 Metroland Media Group Ltd


                              801 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 1, 1991, Monday, FINAL EDITION

U.N. learns about refugees

BYLINE: Lee Michael Katz; Wendy Benedetto

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 249 words


The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Sadako Ogata, says she
learned a lot about how to deal with refugee problems from the Persian Gulf war.

Ogata, who met with President Bush last week to discuss the status of Iraqi
civilians, says the commission will use this newfound knowledge to tackle other
refugee problems around the world.

''We are the ones who experienced it. We know where the weaknesses are and where
to go for assistance. If we build up fast, we can manage (the Iraqi situation
.''

Ogata says the commission's 1991 budget is $ 800 million. These volunteered
funds go toward handling refugee problems around the world.

Ogata says the commission must raise all of the $ 800 million to be able to
manage its agenda. So far, about $ 550 million has been donated, which is almost
as much as last year's budget, she says. Iraq's refugee problem alone will cost
about $ 267 million this year.

According to the commission, the refugee problem isn't unique to the Middle East
but is a growing problem around the world.

- Asia: 6.7 million (China, 280,500; Thailand, 99,900; Hong Kong, 49,500)

- Africa: 4.6 million (Malawi, 822,500; Sudan, 767,700; Ethiopia, 710,200)

- North America: 1.4 million (USA, 1 million; Canada, 447,200)

- Latin America: 1.2 million (Mexico, 356,400; Costa Rica, 278,600; Honduras,
237,100; Guatemala, 223,100)

- Europe: 828,487 (France, 194,900; Federal Rep. of Germany, 150,700; Sweden,
139,800; United Kingdom, 100,000)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Inquiry

See main story; War's other victims; Iraq's children

                      Copyright 1991 Gannett Company Inc.


                              802 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                  April 25, 1991, THURSDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

AN INVISIBLE FAMINE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 341 words


International efforts to aid starving Kurdish refugees are welcome, although
refugees and others elsewhere are facing similar or worse problems with scant
attention from the West. The Bush administration initially ignored the Kurds but
has since adopted them as America's latest humanitarian cause. The shift
probably is due partly to television footage that brought the aftermath of the
Persian Gulf War into U.S. homes.  The belated response is better than none.
Aside from the Kurdish problem, however, the international spotlight needs to
focus on what is fast becoming what one relief official calls second-rate
famine. In Ethiopia, for instance, an estimated 2 million people in the Eritrea
province and another 2.4 million in the Tigre area are severely affected by
famine. Another 1.9 million in Angola are facing starvation, and the U.N. is
appealing for $136 million in aid to assist 3.9 million famine victims in
Mozambique. Starvation also has become commonplace in the African nations of
Liberia, Somalia, Chad and Rwanda.  To be sure, these African nations, unlike
the landless Kurds, have been assisted by private international relief agencies.
It also should be noted that a good part of the starvation in Africa is due to
leaders who favor guns over butter. Roughly $12 billion is spent annually on
weapons and armed forces in African countries, many of which lack en ough food
to feed their people.  In addition, the hunger and starvation in these nations
stem only partly from drought and bad harvests. A big factor is civil war, which
has created large refugee populations whose suffering is every bit as tragic as
that of the Kurds. The international community cannot give this suffering a low
priority even if its attention is focused mainly on the gulf crisis.  It took
television footage of starving children, dehydrated infants and slaughtered
adults to convince the Bush administration to respond to the plight of the
Kurds. What will it take to focus more attention on starvation and slaughter
elsewhere?

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              803 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 26, 1990, Monday, Final Edition

Horror in Liberia;
African Hospitality, American Indifference

BYLINE: Lionel Rosenblatt

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A11

LENGTH: 952 words


As a veteran observer of refugees in Southeast Asia, I was prepared to see more
suffering when I went to West Africa to assess conditions for Liberian refugees.
Like almost all refugees, the Liberians brought little with them except tales of
horror -- the kind of atrocities I had not encountered since listening to
accounts of Cambodian refugees who fled the murderous Khmer Rouge regime more
than a decade ago.

Sometimes the terror in Liberia is random: villages burned, inhabitants
massacred. Sometimes the terror is dreadfully focused, as in the instance of a
young woman who told us how her brother had pleaded for her life, saying to take
his instead; his captors obliged, killed him before her eyes and then let her go
on to a lifetime of nightmares.

I found two things astonishing about the Liberian situation and its refugees --
the hospitality of neighboring countries and the apparent willingness of the
United States and the international community to tolerate continued violence in
Liberia, which indiscriminately generates more dead, more wounded and more
displaced.

The problem is large and growing -- more than half a million Liberians have fled
to the neighboring countries of Sierra Leone, Guinea and the Ivory Coast.
Counting those displaced inside Liberia, half of the country is homeless, which
may be the current world record for displacement.

Yet there are no refugee camps. Hospitality for those who manage to flee across
the border is given by villagers in neighboring countries. To see this personal
generosity is deeply moving -- an extraordinary willingness of those who have
little to share with those who bring nothing. In effect, the villagers were the
sole international donors to Liberian refugees until the slow-moving relief
machinery began to respond months after the first refugees fled.

The advantages of living in a village environment instead of confinement in a
refugee camp are great. Village life permits dignity and freedom of movement,
not possible in the confinement of a camp and at a much lower cost. The refugees
may be poorer than those in Southeast Asia, but their daily existence is
immeasurably better. It is now past time for the international community to
reimburse the front-line village hosts. Yet the rice and other food now finally
being distributed in these villages goes to refugees only.

An international appeal for aid to some 200,000 villagers in Guinea to replenish
their food supplies has received only scant international support. One hopes
that the United States will lead the way in generating the overdue response to
this appeal.

If it is time to recompense the villagers of the neighboring countries. It is
also time to encourage an end to the fighting in Liberia. Even before the Gulf
crisis the United States apparently decided to sit on the sidelines rather than
seek a settlement in the Liberian civil war.

There is bitterness among the Liberian refugees toward all factions, but there
especially is grief that the United States -- long a special patron of Liberia's
since freed slaves returned there from America -- has failed to play a strong
role to end hostilities. Officials in Guinea and the Ivory Coast, as well as
U.S. diplomats in the two countries, believe that active U.S. intervention
months ago could have saved hundreds, perhaps thousands of lives.

It is now time to put other solutions in place. Though the cease-fire engineered
by Assistant Secretary of State Herman Cohen in late September lasted only days,
this peacemaking attempt does show the potential for constructive U.S.
involvement.

What is needed from the United States is a presidential push for a settlement in
Liberia, starting with a new cease-fire. Perhaps a U.N. peacekeeping component
could be added. U.N. Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar should appoint a
high level representative immediately. But with the African group at the United
Nations split, the secretary general can only move ahead with support from major
powers like the United States.

Where are the voices in and out of government for a more responsive approach to
Liberia? Those in Congress who follow Africa -- including the Black Caucus --
have been generally passive. Meanwhile, the media continue to allow the Gulf to
dominate their radar screens.

While pressing for a more effective U.S. approach to the Liberian civil war, we
should encourage recent, belated U.S. actions to get food to Liberia. Starvation
is looming. As helpless as the Liberian refugees are, they never forget to
remind a visitor of the need to get food to their brethren back home and the
imperative to stop the fighting. Obstacles to increased food delivery need to be
addressed: maritime carriers must be insured, the interdiction of food must be
ended and the facilitation of distribution on the ground improved. These
problems are soluble and the world should be doing more than watching Liberia
starve.

One last problem: Why is it so difficult for those Liberians with relatives and
other close ties to the United States to get non-immigrant visas? Thousands of
Liberians have been granted the right to remain indefinitely in the United
States until conditions improve at home. This should be extended to those close
family members who arrived after July, and the State Department should instruct
our embassies to interpret the visa law flexibly and humanely.

It is unconscionable that the United States and the international community are
not acting more effectively on Liberia across-the-board -- inside the country,
along its borders and at ours.

The writer, executive director of Refugees International, recently visited
Liberian refugees in Guinea and the Ivory Coast.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, AFP

TYPE: OPINION EDITORIAL

                       Copyright 1990 The Washington Post


                              804 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    October 16, 1990, Tuesday, City Edition

Agreement may be near on child-care bill

SECTION: NATIONAL; WASHINGTON DIGEST; Pg.  4A

LENGTH: 633 words



Senate leaders say they are near an agreement with the White House on a $
13-billion child-care bill that would provide matching money to states seeking
to set up training programs and to subsidize state-regulated child-care centers.
After years of efforts, it appears that Congress has finally devised the vehicle
to provide federal money to modernize the nation's child-care system. Lawmakers
involved in negotiations said the two sides are close to concluding an agreement
under which participating states could either give families vouchers for day
care or grant direct subsidies to centers.  The negotiations seek to avert a
threatened White House veto on grounds that Senate and House versions of the
bill establish a new and unnecessary federal child-care bureaucracy. By Monday
evening, congressional aides said the main issue unresolved was how much federal
money to distribute to the states.
 Bush allows more refugees
 President Bush said Monday he was raising to 131,000 from 125,000 the number of
refugees that can be admitted to the United States this year for humanitarian
reasons. Bush raised to 50,000 the number of refugees permitted from the Soviet
Union. Last year's ceiling on refugees from the Soviet Union was 42,000. Refugee
limits for other regions are 52,000 from East Asia, 6,000 from the Near East and
South Asia, 5,000 from Eastern Europe, 4,900 from Africa and 3,100 from Latin
America and the Caribbean.
 Angry constituent says it with paint
 PEORIA, Ill.  An angry constituent is using House Minority Leader Robert
Michel's house as a billboard to express displeasure with federal tax policies
and pay raises. For the second time in nine months, a vandal has painted
messages across the front of Michel's home of more than 35 years in this central
Illinois city. "Cut Taxes, Deficit" and "Repeal Stolen Pay Raise" were sprayed
in green paint on the front of the house. A dollar sign was painted on the door.
A spokesman for Michel said the congressman was angry and disappointed about the
incident, which happened over the weekend when Michel was in Washington. No one
has been arrested and police reports list no suspects. Similar vandalism
occurred in  February at Michel's house.
 Negotiators move forward on clean air bill
 House negotiators reportedly agreed Monday to give the steel industry more time
to comply with tougher new toxic air pollution requirements. The action moved a
House-Senate conference committee one step closer to overall agreement on the
first reorganization of the nation's federal clean air laws in 13 years. The
development appeared to set the stage for a settlement with the Senate over new
controls on toxic chemical emissions from the industry as a whole. The
Associated Press reported that House negotiators decided to give steel companies
an additional 20 years, until the year 2020, to bring coke ovens in line with
the rest of industry. The Senate proposal already has such a provision. The
section on toxic emissions and another section on acid rain are the two major
unsettled issues before the conference committee.
 Briefly. . .
 The House approved legislation Monday to create the post of chief financial
officer for the U.S. government, a move designed to fight bureaucratic waste,
fraud and mismanagement. The Bush administration opposes the bill.
 Vietnam's Foreign Minister Nguyen Co Thach will meet with administration
officials Wednesday to discuss the possibility of providing additional
information about the nearly 1,700 Americans f
f still unaccounted for from the Vietnam War.
 President Bush said he will nominate Robert William Gambino, a 20-year veteran
of the CIA, to be director of Selective Service.


LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Robert Michel

                            Times Publishing Company


                              805 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 16, 1990, Tuesday, Final Edition

Bush Approves Modest Rise In Immigration

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A14

LENGTH: 126 words


President Bush yesterday authorized the admission to the United States of up to
131,000 refugees in the next 12 months, an increase of 6,000 over last year.

The government will pay the travel costs for all but 10,000 of the refugees,
defined as fleeing persecution on religious, ethnic or other human rights
grounds. Private sources fund the rest. Most would be from the Soviet Union,
with an allocation of 50,000 people, and Southeast Asia, whose allocation is
52,000.

The total from Eastern Europe was down about 1,500, to 5,000, administration
officials said, because democratic reforms have reduced the number seeking to
emigrate. Other allocations were 6,000 for the Middle East and South Asia; 3,100
for Latin America and 4,900 for Africa.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1990 The Washington Post


                              806 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 4, 1990

Rwanda calls for aid to halt rebels

BYLINE: By PETER BILES in Nairobi

LENGTH: 514 words


THE tiny central African state of Rwanda has asked its former colonial ruler,
Belgium, for military assistance to help quell an invasion by rebels trying to
overthrow President Juvenal Habyarimana.

The rebels, estimated to number around 1,500, crossed into north-eastern Rwanda
from neighbouring Uganda on Sunday. Yesterday they were within 45 miles of the
capital, Kigali, the Belgian foreign ministry said.


A ministry spokeswoman said rebels were fighting government troops near the
towns of Gatsibo and Gabiro, north of Kigali. 'It's not difficult for the rebels
to move to there. It's all savannah,' she said.

The Rwandan government sent reinforcements to the area yesterday, and the
Rwandan Interior Minister, Jean-Marie Vianney, said the army was engaged in
heavy fighting about 90 miles from Kigali. A dusk to dawn curfew was imposed on
Tuesday.

Belgium has not yet replied to the appeal for help, and unconfirmed reports from
Kigali said a similar request had been made to France.

The rebels, most of whom are Rwandan refugees who had been serving in the
Ugandan army, are being led by Major-General Fred Rwigyema, a former deputy
commander of Uganda's National Resistance Army (NRA), and a deputy defence
minister until last December. Gen Rwigyema is a member of Rwanda's minority
Tutsi tribe, which was ousted from power by the majority Hutu in 1959.

The Ugandan President, Yoweri Museveni, has told President Habyarimana that the
attack took Uganda by surprise. 'We have been taken aback by the scale and
rapidity of the desertions,' Mr Museveni told Uganda's New Vision newspaper.
Both leaders have been attending the United Nations summit on children in New
York, but are now returning home.

The Rwandan army is understood to have sent all its operational units
3,000-4,000 men to the north-east, amid fears that more rebels are gathering on
the Ugandan side of the border.

The Ugandan government has been seriously embarrassed by the affair. Yesterday,
an official statement said the border would be sealed and all returning NRA
soldiers would be tried for desertion.

'If President Museveni succeeds in closing the border, the invasion force inside
Rwanda, will die out,' said a Western diplomat in Kigali. 'It was counting on
local support, and that appears not to have materialised.'

In the Ugandan capital, Kampala, a spokesman for the Rwandan Patriotic Front
stressed that although his organisation contained many Tutsi refugees, the
rebels were not invading Rwanda primarily on their behalf. The first objective
was to overthrow the 'corrupt' government of President Habyarimana.

The United Nations High Commission for Refugees reported that there were 75,000
registered Rwandan refugees in south-western Uganda at the beginning of this
year. Thousands more live in other neighbouring countries Tanzania, Burundi and
Zaire.

Rwanda, Africa's most densely-populated country, has consistently said it cannot
allow the return of large numbers of refugees, as the country would be unable to
cope with such an influx.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              807 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     July 14, 1990, Saturday, City Edition

U.S. often rejects refugees

BYLINE: REENA SHAH

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 981 words



It wasn't anything out of the ordinary. It was just another flimsy boat on the
choppy seas, crammed with 108 Haitians seeking a better life. And, like most
such sailors, they were being sent back home. Forty-eight of them drowned
Tuesday as their boat was being towed by a Bahamian patrol ship.

    A brief report in the Miami Herald said it was tragic the Bahamas refused to
be a sanctuary for the Haitians but allowed one of its islands to serve as a
cemetery for these dead refugees. The St.  Petersburg Times gave the Haitian
deaths a few sentences on Page 12A on Friday. But mostly, the deaths went
unremarked.

    Nobody knew who the refugees were or why they fled. And it wasn't clear how
they had drowned. One radio report said the refugees panicked and ran toward one
end of the boat, making it capsize. The dead Haitians were piled on a fishing
boat and buried nearby. The surviving Haitians were taken for questioning.

    Although international agreements on refugees promise that people who face
persecution won't be sent back against their will, many nations do so. Refugees
from poor nations are often thought to be fleeing poverty rather than political
persecution, and they are returned forcibly.

    "There is danger of refugees being killed or persecuted when they are sent
back to their countries, but countries still do it," said Hiram Ruiz, a policy
analyst at the U.S. Committee for Refugees, a non-profit group that monitors
refugee policies around the world.

    The United States, the world's largest asylum-giver, is a major offender;
last year, more than 5,000 Haitians, 4,000 Guatemalans and 4,700 Salvadorans
were forcibly returned, according to the U.S.  Committee for Refugees.

    Immigration officials say they don't deport refugees. They only send away
people who don't fit their definition of a refugee.  "Anybody can make the claim
that they are persecuted," said Verne Jervis, a spokesman of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service (INS) in Washington, D.C. "They have to show whether this
fear is real, or whether they're coming to get away from poverty, to get a
better job. The burden is on them to make their case credible."

    The United States gives refugee status to people who prove they can be
threatened because of their race, religion, ethnicity or political opinions if
they return to their home country, Jervis said.

    Haitians make up the largest number of refuge-seekers who are
 rejected because they're the largest number caught. Most Central Americans
cross land borders and seek asylum after they've crossed into the United States.


    But most Haitians set out in small boats and are turned back by the Coast
Guard before they arrive within U.S. boundaries.  Haitians who make it to the
United States can file for asylum and are detained in camps while they wait to
see if they can stay permanently. If they are rejected, they are deported.

    As part of a special $ 30-million program to prevent an influx of Haitians,
the Coast Guard monitors international waters to spot refugee-filled boats.
Immigration officials on board question their motives. "They ask each of them
why they've left Haiti, if they have any fear of returning to Haiti," Jervis
said.

    "Most of them are very honest. They say they're coming to the United States
to find work, so they can live better."

    And, rejected as refugees, they are taken back to Haiti on Coast Guard ships
because their own boats are too flimsy. The Coast Guard sinks the Haitian skiffs
"so they won't be a danger to other vessels."

    About 20,000 Haitians have been returned since the program began nine years
ago. Thousands of others are deported out of D Miami and other centers because
they aren't considered refugees.

    Of the 350 boats intercepted by the Coast Guard, less than two dozen
Haitians have been accepted as refugees, Jervis said. In comparison, America
accepted 29,000 refugees from the Soviet Union last year.

    Refugee groups say those who flee poor nations are unfairly suspected of
being economic gain-seekers, but refugees from the Soviet Union and Eastern
Europe are easily accepted as their persecution is assumed.

     It's hard to distinguish between economic and political suffering, said
Ruiz, the Committee for Refugees analyst. "The people who were leaving East
Germany said they were looking for freedom and a better life. The political
dimension was there, but there was an  economic difference, too."

    And in a country like Vietnam or Haiti, political persecution can take an
economic form, when jobs are denied and property is seized by officials.

    Other nations also have been known to turn back asylum-seekers.  Mexico, the
source of many economic migrants to the United States, last year turned away at
least 46,000 refugees from neighboring nations like Guatemala and Salvador.

    Malaysia has in the last year towed away more than 6,500 Vietnamese boat
people and left them on the high seas. About 950 refugees voluntarily went back
to Vietnam from Hong Kong, where 56,000 refugees wait in camps to be accepted by
America and Europe. Many of the refugees were declared economic migrants, and
impatient with their slow return, Hong Kong has speeded the process by forcibly
airlifting some of them.

    South Africa turned away 34,000 Mozambicans fleeing the war in their
country, while its burdened neighbor Malawi has given asylum to so many that one
in 10 of its people today is a refugee.

    An international conference on refugees was scheduled to be held this year
in Geneva but was postponed because of disagreements between governments.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


                              808 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                   November 8, 1989, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Canada pledges aid for refugees in Africa

BYLINE: By Paul Watson Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 308 words


   Canada has promised an extra $2 million to the cash-starved United Nations
refugee agency to help it handle a growing crisis in Africa.

The federal government's Canadian International Development Agency confirmed
yesterday that it pledged at least that much cash to the refugee commission's
43-nation executive committee in Geneva last month.

The final pledge won't be announced until a donors conference in New York later
this month and the United Nations High Commission for Refugees is lobbying hard
for more money.

"The situation requires that we have more from everybody," commission
spokesperson Angela Gibbs said from Ottawa.

A massive budget shortfall has forced the commission to carry over a $40 million
(U.S.) deficit into next year, but it has to find another $60 million (U.S.) in
the next two months, Gibbs said.

"No refugee will die (due to the deficit) this year, although life will be
difficult. But next year will be the problem."

Ottawa won't say whether it has any more money to give until the New York
meeting, said development agency spokesperson Jean-Marc Emery.

"We know what the situation is, but we know our constraints also," he said.

Once the refugee commission's ninth largest donor, Canada has dropped to twelfth
place despite steady increases in its donations, Gibbs said.

Half of Canada's $2 million increase will help feed and give shelter to almost
750,000 Mozambicans driven into neighboring Malawi by a vicious civil war that
has caused Africa's worst refugee problem.

Ottawa has already given $300,000 for refugees in Malawi, one of the world's
poorest countries, which has a refugee burden that is one-tenth its own
population.

The rest will be split between Ethiopia and Sudan, which have a total of at
least 1.4 million refugees living in border camps.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1989 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              809 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                        October 25, 1989, Wednesday, ME2

Canada, Britain in clash on refugees

BYLINE: Special-Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 644 words

DATELINE: KUALA LUMPUR


   KUALA LUMPUR (Special-Staff) - Canada has told Britain it views with concern
a possible plan to forcibly repatriate Vietnamese boat people from Hong Kong.

"Let me just say that we should all hope that it doesn't come to that and that
suggestions like that would not find much favor in Canada," Prime Minister Brian
Mulroney said yesterday at the end of the Commonwealth Conference in Malaysia.

External Affairs Minister Joe Clark disclosed that he raised the issue last
month in London, during a meeting with British Foreign Secretary John Major.

"It's a difficult question and everyone is watching it, but the British are
aware of our position," said Clark.

Clark's remarks followed a statement by British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher
during her final press conference.

Undesirable refugees

She said Britain is entitled to expel and return refugees to Viet Nam, if it
deems them undesirables.

United Nations officials, the U.S. government and several western countries have
made it clear to Britain they consider the mandatory return of Vietnamese as
inhumane, in light of possible persecution.

On the contentious issue of sanctions against South Africa, Mulroney and
Thatcher exchanged bitter parting shots as the Commonwealth summit ended.

Thatcher, who opposes sanctions as a strategy to end apartheid, said a future
South Africa "will inherit a strong economy and they will have (Britain) to
thank for that."

Mulroney, who told a news conference he was "blindsided" by the British on
sanctions, said South Africa will remember who her friends are.

Thatcher was unrepentant about her lone stand against increased sanctions.

"If it is one against 48," she said, "I am very sorry for the 48."

Mulroney, asked what message the summit sent to South Africa, said Pretoria had
"congratulated one member and castigated all the others."

"The message is pretty clear," he said.

Angry Mugabe

President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe, quoted by Canadian Press, said Thatcher was
characteristically "the only dissenting voice" at this year's summit.

"I don't know whether that is British politics, but I think it is despicable,
unacceptable," he told a news conference.

The refuge question came up yesterday as tempers still seethed from the
sanctions debate.

In the past year, more than 30,000 refugees have sailed into tiny Hong Kong,
stretching its resources to the limit. Demonstrations and riots have broken out
several times.

Thatcher yesterday drew a distinction between such people and so-called economic
refugees from Viet Nam.

"Most countries in the world send back illegal immigrants," she said. "The
United States sends them back, including to Mexico, and repatriates them to
Haiti, for example."

Of 55,000 boat people Thatcher said are now in Hong Kong (other estimates run
well above 60,000), about 13,000 so far have been assessed "genuine refugees,"
meaning they fit the standard United Nations definition of people fleeing
oppression. More than 25,000 have arrived since January.

'Great difficulty'

The Philippines has offered to set up a "staging post" to hold such people in
transit pending resettlement elsewhere.

"This leaves Hong Kong in a great difficulty," said Thatcher.

"Hong Kong has never pushed away boat people for very obvious reasons," she
said.

"Hong Kong cannot go on steadily accepting more.

"If I might respectfully say so, those countries who criticize Hong Kong, or us
about this same matter, would be very much more helpful if instead of just
criticizing (said) 'right, we will take a certain number,' " Thatcher argued.

One such country is the United States. Thatcher did not say whether she was also
referring to Canada.

About half of all refugees and immigrants from Hong Kong who left in 1988 went
to Canada. Britain took less than 2 per cent of them.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AP photo Brian Mulroney and Margaret Thatcher at Commonwealth
conference

                  Copyright 1989 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              810 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

              October 21, 1989, Saturday, SATURDAY SECOND EDITION

Opera night will 'water' Africa

SECTION: RELIGION; Pg. M30

LENGTH: 928 words


   OPERA lovers can enjoy an outstanding musical event in Toronto next month and
help the Consolata Missionaries "Water For Africa" campaign.

Metropolitan Opera baritone Louis Quilico and his pianist wife, Lina, will be
among the stars of a concert at 4.30 p.m. on Nov. 19 at Roy Thomson Hall.

Others appearing include soprano Maria Spacagna, tenor Vladimir Popov,
mezzo-soprano Catherine Stolz, and St. Michael's Choir School.

The orchestra will be conducted by Daniel Lipton, artistic director of Opera
Hamilton and San Antonia Texas Festival.

Because this is the International Year of Illiteracy, proceeds from the concert
will mostly go to provide water for the missionaries' schools in Kenya, Ethiopia
and Mozambique, organizers say.

Tickets are $35, $25 and $20 (tax included), available at Roy Thomson Hall and
Massey Hall box offices: 593-4828, and at the Consolata Missionaries: 749-8907.

Refugee law

The Canadian Council of Churches has raised about $175,000 to pay for its legal
challenge of Canada's new refugee law, says the Mennonite Reporter. The total
cost is estimated at $350,000.

Most donations have come from individual church members and congregations, Mary
Sanderson, co-ordinator of the fundraising effort, told the paper. Money-making
projects include the sale of refugee T-shirts, Christmas cards, and tapes by a
Winnipeg group, The Common Cup.

A federal court ruled this spring that the council had the right to fight the
refugee law, but no date has been set for the next step.

Thje council argues that the law does not protect refugees according to the
Charter of Rights and Freedoms.

Cocaine dilemma

Church members can be affected as drug producers as well as victims or
caregivers in North America's drug war .

A Christianity Today article points out that growing coca enables Christian
farmers in Bolivia to provide for their families, while they also know it is
used to make cocaine.

Although none of the major denominations has officially condemned coca
producation, local pastors often preach against it. The Pentecostal church does
not allow coca growers to hold leadership positions. World Vision, a relief and
development agency, is looking for ways to provide incentives to Christian
farmers not to grow coca.

Meanwhile the United Church Observer quotes the ironic comment of a physician
with the American Association for World Health that more Colombians die from
diseases caused by tobacco products imported from the U.S. than do Americans
from Colombian cocaine.

Coming events

* A gospel show for children, featuring Nancy McIntosh and Germs, the singing
dog, and other furry friends, plus games prizes and refreshments, will be
presented from 3 to 5 p.m. tomorrow at Alderwood United Church, 44 Delma Dr.,
Etobicoke. For free tickets, phone 824-2141.

* An art exhibition and sale opens today until Nov. 25 from 1 to 6 p.m. daily
except Sundays at the Zen Buddhist Temple, 86 Vaughan Rd. Information: 658-0137.

* A Trinity College choral scholarship benefit concert, with soprano Victoria
Pinnington and the Trinity College Chapel Choir, will take place at 8 p.m. on
Oct. 25 at the George Ignatieff Theatre, 15 Devonshire Place. Tickets $12.50
from Trinity College, 6 Hoskin Ave., or phone 978-2651.

* Marking the 25th anniversary of Vatican II's Decree on Ecumenism, the
University of St. Michael's College Continuing Education Division and the Office
for Ecumenical and Interfaith Affairs will sponsor six public lectures on the
consequences of the decree on Thursdays, starting at 7.30 p.m. on Oct. 26 at the
Alumni Hall, 121 St. Joseph St. 926-7254.

* "The Father of Contemporary Christian Music," Larry Norman, will be in concert
at 7.30 p.m. on Oct. 28 at the Peoples Church, 374 Sheppard Ave. E., opening
with the McKenzie Band. Tickets from Youth For Christ at 674-0466 or at the
door.

* Christian Science lecturer Edward Jones of Victoria, B.C., will speak on
"Christlike Compassion Heals the Pain of Blame" at 2 p.m. on Oct. 28 at St.
Lawrence Hall, 157 King St. E. Free admission.

* Rev. Rex Mason of Regent's Park College, Oxford, will give the third annual
Lester Randall Preaching Fellowship sermons on Oct. 28 and 29 at Yorkminster
Park Baptist Church.

* Festival Of Song '89, Humber Valley United Church's 27th annual variety show,
will take place at 8 p.m. on Oct. 27 and Nov. 2 and 3 at the church at 76
Anglesey Blvd., Islington (corner of Wimbleton Rd. and The Kingsway). Adults $6,
seniors $4, students under 19 $2.

* All Saints Parish, 1415 Royal York Rd., Etobicoke, will mark its 25th
anniversary with mass at 6 p.m. on Nov. 1 followed by dinner at 7.30 p.m. at the
Constellation Hotel, Dixon Rd., and a concelebrated mass of thanksgiving with
Emmett Cardinal Carter at 12.30 p.m. on Nov. 5, followed by an open house and
reception in the parish hall. Call 244-3066.

* Vineyard Christian Fellowship holds services at 3 p.m. on Sundays at
Silverthorne Collegiate, 291 Mill Rd. (just south of Burhamthorpe Rd. and west
of Highway 427). Information: 631-VINE.

* A series of seminars seeking to apply the wisdom of the ages to the challenges
of today will be held at 6.30 p.m. on Sundays until Dec. 17 at Long Branch
Baptist Church, 3381 Lakeshore Blvd. W. Nursery provided. Information: 251-1525.

Please deliver typewritten items for Religion Roundup at least 14 days in
advance. Send to: Religion Editor, The Toronto Star, One Yonge Street, Toronto
M5E 1E6, and mark the envelope "Religion Roundup."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1989 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              811 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     October 6, 1989, Friday, Final Edition

Europe's Migrants Swell Refugee Wave;
Millions Across World Are Seeking Asylum

BYLINE: Don Podesta, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A41

LENGTH: 2102 words


While the thousands of East Germans who have fled to the West have had to leave
behind homes, jobs, cars and loved ones to pursue their desperate bid for a new
life in the West, they can be considered fortunate among the world's millions of
refugees: They are wanted.

They will automatically be received into West German society as citizens and
will be aided in finding homes and work. But in refugee camps from Sudan to Hong
Kong, a different drama is playing itself out.

This should have been the year some of the world's millions upon millions of
displaced people could begin thinking about going home.

Wars in Angola, Afghanistan, Cambodia, Nicaragua and the Persian Gulf either
wound down significantly or ended. Vietnamese, Soviet and Cuban troops involved
in three of these conflicts were withdrawn. U.S. military support for Nicaraguan
rebels came to an end.

Yet there are more refugees seeking asylum than ever: By some counts there are
more than 15 million people languishing in camps from Central America and the
Horn of Africa to Pakistan and Thailand -- and now, also in the courtyards of
West German embassies in Eastern European capitals, adding up to one of the
greatest migrations of people in the world's history.

"We in the refugee field haven't seen the benefits of the end of regional
conflicts," said Roger Winter, director of the U.S. Committee for Refugees, a
nonprofit organization headquartered in Washington.

One exception is Namibia, where in June the first of more than 41,000 political
exiles began returning home as a result of a U.S.-brokered regional peace
agreement, the biggest refugee airlift ever conducted by the United Nations.

In the last decade, the world may have become inured to Third World refugees.
But this year's wave of European emigres -- 100,000 Soviets, 45,000 East
Germans, 300,000 Bulgarian Turks, 230,000 Poles, 20,000 Romanians -- form
something that has not been seen since the great European migrations at the end
of World War II.

In many ways, the sudden outpouring of East Europeans heading West serves to
partly explain why reduced conflict has not led to relief for the world's
refugees. If anything, the reduction of East-West tensions, which contributed to
many of the regional conflicts, and the accompanying birth of more open
political systems in formerly rigid dictatorships such as Poland, Hungary and
the Soviet Union, have contributed to the mass movement of people as barriers to
emigration have come down.

Where a few years ago the word "refugee" evoked images of an emaciated Ethiopian
child seeking relief from drought and famine in a dusty desert camp, today's
refugee is as likely to be seeking better economic opportunities or political
liberty as fleeing war or natural disaster.

Indochina offers a particularly graphic example of how the nature of refugees
and the world's response to them has changed in the past decade.

Since Communist victories in Vietnam and Cambodia in 1975, Southeast Asia has
been flooded with refugees -- Cambodians fleeing the horrors of the Khmer Rouge
regime and later the Vietnamese invasion, and Vietnamese "boat people."

Soon after the wave began, the countries in the region, in consultation with
Western nations, adopted a "first-asylum" policy, under which no refugees
fleeing communism would be turned away. The West, for its part, agreed to a
massive program to resettle the refugees in other countries. Thailand, as the
closest point of escape for most Indochinese refugees, bore the brunt of the
first-asylum policy but also benefited from large infusions of U.N. aid and
other humanitarian assistance.

About two years ago, things began to change. Western countries had taken most of
the refugees they wanted to resettle -- former employees of the U.S. or South
Vietnamese government, ethnic Chinese entrepreneurs, skilled professionals
fleeing communism -- and they reduced their intake.

At the same time, the nature of the refugees themselves began to change. Now
from Vietnam, there are fishermen and farmers who were not necessarily escaping
political persecution but looking for a better life economically. An increasing
number of boat people are now coming from northern Vietnam.

The Southeast Asian nations coined a term for the new reluctance by the West to
continue accepting refugees: "compassion fatigue."

Faced with this change of attitude by the West, Southeast Asian nations have
decided that their policy of granting first asylum has become untenable. The
refugees kept coming, with a new wave beginning in 1987, but fewer and fewer
were being resettled elsewhere. In the spring of 1987, Thailand became the first
country to challenge the first-asylum agreement by adopting a policy to push
boats laden with refugees back out to sea. Indonesia followed suit, and there
are reports that Malaysia is quietly doing the same.

One result of Thailand's rolling up the welcome mat has been a marked shift in
the patterns of refugee movements, with increasing numbers of boat people
arriving in the British crown colony of Hong Kong and in Japan.

Britain and Vietnam have held talks on the issue of sending refugees back to
Vietnam. Hanoi has refused to take back any refugee who does not volunteer to
return, a position that the U.S. government has supported.

British and Thai officials have accused the United States of hypocrisy, pointing
to U.S. interdiction of Haitian boat people and deportation of illegal
immigrants from Mexico and Central America.

"We couldn't take the moral high ground because our own skirts were dirty," said
Winter, of the U.S. Committee for Refugees.

Among Japanese, unaccustomed to immigration, the surge in refugees has stirred
fears that the country will be overrun. It has caused the government for the
first time to adopt a screening process under which refugees with only economic
motives will be repatriated.

And it has caused conflict between Vietnamese-speaking boat people and young
Chinese laborers who have boarded Vietnamese boats in hopes of finding work in
prosperous Japan. The two groups have clashed in overcrowded refugee centers,
and Japanese officials have segregated them.

According to officials in the Japanese Foreign Ministry and the prime minister's
office, 34 boatloads carrying 3,181 people reached Japan as of the end of
September. Only 219 boat people came in all of 1988.

For the Vietnamese, the trip is an arduous, 2,000-mile journey risking pirates
and storms on the open sea. About 80 percent of the arrivals have come to Japan
on their own, with the others picked up by ships on the way.

Japan, which has accepted fewer than 7,000 Indochinese refugees since the end of
the Vietnam war, has said that it will allow the total to rise to 10,000,
providing the new immigrants are genuine refugees under U.N. definitions. But
its processing centers, intended to offer six months of instruction in Japanese
language, are suddenly woefully understaffed and crowded.

Japan is not alone in its reluctance to admit refugees from alien ethnic groups.

In the United States, "East Europeans and Soviets are on the front burner now
and there is a great deal of interest in accepting them," Winter said. "But who
cares about Somalis who have gone to Ethiopia?"

West Germany greets all immigrant ethnic Germans -- whether East Germans or
people of German ancestry from Poland or the Soviet Union -- with up to $ 125
each in "welcome money" and low-cost loans of up to $ 5,000 per family to get
started. All are eligible for normal unemployment or welfare and state-supported
health insurance benefits.

If they are retired, they receive the same pension as if they had worked in West
Germany all their lives; thus a Polish ethnic German who retired after working
35 years as a machinist in Poland receives the same pension as if he had worked
all those years at the same job in West Germany.

But non-German asylum-seekers -- mostly Poles, Yugoslavs, Turks and Iranians --
don't enjoy those benefits. Many of them must work in black market jobs while
waiting -- typically for several years -- for a decision on whether they are to
be granted political asylum. Only about 9 percent ever receive asylum; the rest
are classified as people merely trying to improve their economic status and
technically are supposed to be expelled from the country, although in practice
this does not happen often.

When international laws covering refugees were written in 1951, most of those
heading for Western Europe or America were Europeans. But with modern
transportation and regional wars in many parts of the Third World, refugees are
traveling to the West from farther away and most of them are not white. This, in
Winter's view, helps account for the West's increasing reluctance to continue
accepting refugees.

"You start to get a decreasing receptivity to refugees," Winter said.
"Governments are backing away from the system they created."

As a result, contributions to organizations that care for refugees, such as the
International Red Cross and the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), are
down, in relative terms, just when the need is greater than ever.

The U.N. deputy high commissioner for refugees, Eugene Dewey, said budgetary
pressures have forced the agency to cut back on all but "survival items" for
refugees. The number of exiles cared for by the agency has risen 40 percent over
the past three years with victims up 700,000 in the last year alone.

But contributions are up only 17 percent since 1986, Dewey said, adding that
UNHCR may face a $ 40 million deficit by the end of the year.

"We've had to retrench. We've had to cut out almost everything except survival
items, care and maintenance," Dewey said. "This is tragic because it has cost us
our investment programs in education and training, which have some chance of
getting refugees out of this dependency syndrome."

But despite the increase in migration for economic reasons, the bulk of the
world's refugees are fleeing their native lands not to search for better jobs or
more money or even political freedom. Most of the 4 million refugees in Africa,
the 5 million Afghans encamped in Pakistan and Iran and the hundreds of
thousands of displaced Central Americans have fled for a much simpler reason: to
stay alive.

Often, that is all they achieve; conditions in many camps around the world are
hellish.

Camps in Malawi, South Africa and Zambia for 1 million Mozambicans fleeing the
14-year-old civil war in their country offer nightmarish scenes: children with
bloated bellies and pencil-thin arms crawling through the dust in search of
shade or beetles to eat, and adults wearing bark peeled from trees, clamoring
around a relief plane's whirring propellers for sacks of grain tossed out the
door.

Afghan refugees, who represent fully a third of their country's population, also
are a third of the world's refugees. Many of them have been in camps in Pakistan
and Iran for all of the 1980s.

Sanitary conditions in the camps are poor even by South Asian standards;
diseases associated with malnutrition are chronic, and morale is generally low.
More than 75 percent of the refugees are women and children, most of whom have
not been home since leaving Afghanistan. A third of the children have been born
and raised in the camps, according to the United Nations.

"The situation of the women has been particularly difficult due to the fact that
Afghan culture and traditions strictly discourage contact between women and
outsiders," a recent U.N. report said. "Most women have been confined . . . in
their shelters with very little social contact. In many cases this has resulted
in psychological depression and despair."

But the irony is that 10 years of war and international administration of the
camps has led to another kind of distortion of the Afghan experience: Refugees
now receive more and better services in the squalid Pakistani camps -- health,
education, and food -- than they would in most areas of Afghanistan, where the
war-torn countryside is generally devoid of civil administration.

Aid officials worry that they are a long way from being able to promise the
refugees a better life if and when they go home.

And for many of the world's refugees, there is no guarantee that they will ever
go home. Palestinian refugees now number nearly 2 million in Lebanon, Jordan and
the Israeli-occupied Gaza Strip and West Bank, and many of these have been in
camps for more than 40 years with no end to their displacement in sight.

Washington Post correspondents abroad contributed to this report.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION, A WORLD OF REFUGEES: THE SCOPE OF THE PROBLEM, BRAD WYE

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1989 The Washington Post


                              812 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                    October 3, 1989, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

U.S. denies Israel refugee funds

BYLINE: Johanna Neuman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 513 words


Congressional calls for more aid to Poland already are stretching the U.S.
budget, Baker added.

In the fiscal year that began Oct. 1, the United States limits the number of
Soviet refugees, many of them Jews, coming to the USA to 50,000.

Consequently, a number of them - like Lev Gelfand, a 33-year-old engineer - have
chosen Israel instead.

''When my visa application to the U.S. was refused, I didn't reapply as I could
have,'' said Gelfand, who's studying Hebrew in a Tel Aviv suburb.

''It made me think that if America doesn't want me, why should I be fighting to
go there? I'm lucky I made that decision,'' said Gelfand, who arrived in
Jerusalem a little more than three months ago with his wife and two children.

Gelfand is one of 350 Soviet Jews who have arrived in Israel since the beginning
of the year from Italian transit camps after being refused U.S. visas.

While the number isn't yet large, Israeli officials see it as the forerunner of
a heavy tide of Soviet Jews who'll be turning to Israel as the United States
becomes more selective about who is let in.

''What is significant about these 350 is that they all planned to go somewhere
else and changed their minds,'' says Ephraim Bluth, an immigration official.
''Last year none came from the Italian camps.''

Israel has sent emissaries to the camps to try to persuade the Russian emigrants
to change direction.

''The picture we had of Israel in Russia was that it was a very dangerous place
where there was no work and where the religious parties dominated,'' says Dr.
Arkady Levitan, 50, who arrived in Jerusalem from Italy last month. ''It was
painted as a desert.''

After waiting for five months in vain for a U.S. visa at the Ladispoli transit
camp outside Rome, Levitan and his wife, Galina, a biochemist, decided to opt
for Israel.

''We spoke to an Israeli emissary,'' says Galina Levitan. ''He told us it was no
paradise but that it was a place where our 13-year-old son could grow feeling
that he belonged. We found a beautiful country.''

Valerie Mishiyev, 36, a teacher of English, reached Ladispoli, but before even
applying for a U.S. visa, he decided to come to Israel.

''I figured that America doesn't need Russian English teachers,'' he said. He
too was surprised to find a modern country with well-stocked stores. Some 7,000
Jews are now leaving the Soviet Union each month.

''Last year we had 2,000 Russian emigrants,'' said Bluth. ''This year we expect
about 8,000. Next year we hope to get 20,000 and some optimists even say
50,000.''

Contributing: Abe Rabinovich in Jerusalem

TEXT OF GRAPHIC
Refugees: 125,000 due The United States will allow 125,000 refugees to enter the
country in fiscal 1990, which began Oct. 1. Limits on the refugees by region:
Africa           3,000

Eastern Asia
Vietnamese     26,500
Others         25,000
Soviet Union    50,000
Eastern Europe   6,500

Latin America,
Caribbean       3,500

Near East and
South Asia      6,500
Others           4,000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  b/w (chart)

                      Copyright 1989 Gannett Company Inc.


                              813 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 12, 1989, Tuesday, Final Edition

U.S. Eyes 50,000 Limit On Soviet Emigres in '90;
Up to 150,000 Are Expected to Seek Entry

BYLINE: John M. Goshko, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A1

LENGTH: 668 words


The Bush administration plans to propose to Congress that the United States
accept 50,000 refugees from the Soviet Union during the coming year -- far fewer
than the 100,000 to 150,000 Soviet Jews, evangelical Christians and other Soviet
citizens expected to seek admission to this country in 1990.

The 50,000 slots proposed for Soviet emigres, most of them Jews, would make them
the biggest single subgroup of the 125,000 refugees that the administration will
recommend admitting during fiscal 1990, which begins Oct. 1. Still, it would
mean that the United States, after waging a two-decade struggle to induce Moscow
to ease its restrictions on emigration, will be in the embarrassing position of
turning away thousands who had hoped to resettle here.

The figures are contained in a confidential memorandum prepared by Jewel S.
LaFontant, the State Department's coordinator for refugee affairs. Informed
sources said yesterday it has been approved tentatively by the White House and
will be proposed to Congress by Attorney General Dick Thornburgh and other U.S.
officials in testimony this week.

In addition to the Soviet quota, LaFontant's memo proposes fiscal 1990 refugee
allotments of 3,000 for Africa, 25,000 for "first entry" refugees from East
Asia, 26,500 spaces primarily for Amerasians and their families, 6,500 for
Eastern Europe exclusive of the Soviet Union, 3,500 for Latin America and the
Caribbean, 6,500 for the Middle East and South Asia, and 4,000 for others coming
under various private-sector programs.

Refugee status quotas are fixed by the administration in consultation with
Congress. The federal government pays refugees' transportation and resettlement
costs, and the rising numbers of people seeking such status from troubled areas
of the world have put a greater strain on the budgetary resources than the
austerity-minded administration is willing to commit.

The 50,000 figure for Soviet immigrants to the United States would apply only to
those receiving expenses-paid refugee status. Those denied that status could
apply for admission under the attorney general's parole authority, with a
reasonable expectation of success. But they would not get U.S. government
financial help. Much of the problem stems from President Mikhail Gorbachev's
easing of Soviet immigration policies after departures had been sharply
curtailed for several years.

An estimated 2 million Jews live in the Soviet Union, and about 50,000 are
expected to relocate in the United States this year. State Department officials
have told Congress that they expect up to 150,000 refugee applicants next year.

That has led to an informal consensus between the administration and influential
groups in the American Jewish community that the number is too large for the
United States to absorb. There is an expectation that most of those denied entry
will be redirected to Israel, but considerable disagreement still exists about
how many should be admitted to this country.

Since September 1988, the Justice Department has tightened its standards for
granting them refugee status, turning down what U.S. Jewish groups estimate is
about 20 percent of the applicants. Processing backlogs have also left about
14,000 Jews stranded in Italy and thousands more backed up in the Soviet Union
waiting for their applications to be considered.

That has led to drives in Congress for legislation to establish a presumption
that Soviet Jews and evangelical Christians are subject to persecution in their
homeland and thus make it easier for them to get refugee status.

Rep. Bruce A. Morrison (D-Conn.), sponsor of the legislation in the House, said
last night the 50,000-space quota for the Soviet Union is "reasonable." But he
added that those already in the pipeline because they had been led to expect
they would gain admittance to this country should be judged on a presumptive
basis, and he warned that the administration is likely to face a major fight
with Congress if it does not go along.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS, FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1989 The Washington Post


                              814 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                      July 7, 1989, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Re-shaping a distorted global map

BYLINE: by Bruce McLeod

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 548 words


   THERE IS a map of the world on the immigration manager's wall, near Pearson
airport. He supervises adversarial screenings where arriving refugees must prove
their right to appear before Canada's new refugee board.

Slightly above the map's center, Canada is vivid in empire-red. Southern
countries, from which refugees come, seem small and insignificant. Alaska
appears bigger than Mexico, which is actually three times its size. Greenland
looms larger than South America or Africa.

The manager's map is drawn on the 400-year-old Mercator projection. A tiny note
in the corner explains that, despite appearances, South America is actually nine
times larger than Greenland. But pictures speak louder than words.

German cartographer Mercator was not trying to downgrade the Third World; he had
never heard of it. No flat-page map ever conveys the Earth's spherical character
without distortion. Mercator's purpose was to help navigators plot diagonal
courses that weren't simply north-south or east-west. To achieve that, area-size
accuracy was sacrificed. Lines of latitude distant from the equator were
stretched apart; the equator itself was lowered. Southern countries, in
Mercator's day hardly known to Europeans, shrank; northern countries grew.

Generations of schoolchildren, some now immigration officers, were raised on
Mercator's map; it formed their view of the world. Other maps, based on
projections which correct Mercator's distortions (exchanging them for others)
have long been available. But they often appear in atlases which give detailed,
large-scale treatment to northern countries, while Africa and South America are
in small scale only.

CUT TO SIZE

In the recent Philips Atlas, for instance, the scale for England and Wales is
four times that of Madagascar which, on quick glance, seems smaller; instead of
larger, which it is. Says Terry Hardaker, Oxford cartographer, it's like
"peering at Europe and North America through a magnifying glass, and then
surveying the rest of the world through the wrong end of a telescope."

In 1973, German historian Arno Peters, outraged at uncritical use of biased
world pictures, developed an area-accurate map. Shape distortion appears in
countries along the equator; but relative area is true. Africa is central, and
enormous; Canada and Greenland are cut to size.

This year, Longman has published the Peters World Atlas. Each same-scale
double-page map, hand-drawn to computerized satellite projections, represents
one-sixtieth of the Earth's surface. In addition, 246 color-coded thematic maps
give detailed information on world distribution of everything from donkeys,
bees, and fish catches to calorie consumption, education expenditures and the
status of women.

No map is perfect. But some, given prevailing attitudes, are more imperfect than
others. Peters says, "if the view of the world that underpinned (the age of
colonialism) is to come to an end, we need a new geography - one that is based
on the equal status of all peoples." Maps that, intentionally or not, convey
another message should be removed from schoolrooms, and from the walls of
immigration officials who greet refugees from other parts of the world.

* Bruce McLeod is a minister at Toronto's Bellefair United Church.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1989 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              815 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                              June 23, 1989 Friday

The millions who flee for a better life

BYLINE: HEDLEY THOMAS

LENGTH: 1204 words


National Refugee Week this week sees a continuation of the worsening plight of
the world's asylum-seekers. Hedley Thomas in London reports on the grim future
ahead for the 14 million living in limbo after fleeing their homelands.

THEY number some 14 million worldwide. They are people frightened, uprooted,
dispossessed and unwanted, having fled their own miserable homeland for want of
a better one.

They are effectively voiceless and completely bereft of what the more fortunate
among us call human rights. They are the world's refugees.

The vast majority are living fourth-world lives in third-world countries. With
limited resources, those countries struggle to support the burden imposed by so
many destitute new arrivals from Africa, Asia and Latin America.

Authorities estimate only about 10 per cent have been allowed to settle in such
places as western Europe, the United States, Canada and Australia.

The United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that everyone
has the right to seek and to enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution.

But, for the 14 million asylum-seekers, this declaration means little because
the crisis is worsening.

In January this year there were almost a million more refugees than the January
before. As situations in strife-torn countries change constantly so, too, does
the number of people displaced.

Many survive at virtual starvation level in overcrowded camps, locked up and
with little chance of returning to their country of origin or moving on to their
country of choice.

Thousands carrying injuries or affected by disease are dying. Boat people are
dying at sea. Some might have lived but were ignored by passing ships.

According to some estimates, one in three of the people who leave Vietnam by sea
never makes it safely to land. The prospects for many refugees who do live
rarely improve a great deal.

Most are victims of wars. From Afghanistan alone, more than five million have
fled since 1980. Despite its peace agreement with Pakistan and the Soviet
Union's withdrawal of troops, observers concede there is much work to be done
until Afghanistan will be safe and secure for all refugees.

In few countries has the situation improved enough for a notable percentage of
the people to be willing to return. Recent exceptions have included Chad,
Ethiopia, Uganda, Zimbabwe, Sri Lanka and, most lately, Namibia.

According to the 1951 United Nations Convention, a genuine refugee is "a person
who, owing to a well-founded fear of persecution, for reasons of race, religion,
nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion, is
outside the country of origin and is unable or, owing to such fears, unwilling
to return to it".

Yet, gaining the status of "genuine refugee" is harder than ever before.
Throughout Europe and North America, governments are adopting more sophisticated
measures aimed at reducing the number of asylum-seekers arriving.

Stricter visa requirements are being imposed and sanctions, such as fines
against airlines bringing asylum-seekers without proper papers, are being
strengthened.

Compare the spirit behind these measures with the spirit behind a resolution
resolved by the Council of Europe in 1967: "That governments should act in a
particularly liberal and humanitarian spirit in relation to persons who seek
asylum in their territory."

For those seeking asylum in Western countries, their attempts have been
punctuated with bitterness and frustration as delays, rejection and deportations
become increasingly common.

According to a recent report by the Council of World Churches in Geneva:
"Governments faced with new refugee arrivals turned to each other in trying to
formulate common policies to relieve the situation - policies which were too
often based on a desire to keep people out."

The director of the British Refugee Council, Mr Alf Dubs, said: "Western
countries are basically closing their doors.

"They are telling the refugees that they are economic migrants who are moving to
better themselves economically.

"In the process of closing the doors, governments are not giving refugees a fair
chance to answer to whether they are in fear of persecution or not.

"They are not being allowed in or are being sent back to the countries they came
from. The future doesn't look too good. In fact, it's pretty gloomy."

The "orbiters" - a floating population of refugees in the sky, touching down,
taking off, touching down again - tell another side of the story. These
unfortunates are asylum-seekers who find themselves either airborne or held by
immigration authorities at airports that become detention centres for days,
weeks, sometimes even months at a time.

W ILLIAM Hamid, in his early 20s and from the northern lowlands of Ethiopia,
began his life as an orbiting refugee when he bought a Somalian passport and a
plane ticket to Canada to start a new life.

His plane journey took him via Cairo and Switzerland. When he landed in Geneva
to wait for his onward flight, Swiss immigration authorities studied his
passport, found it was about to expire and refused to let him board the Canadian
flight. They also refused to allow him to stay.

Hamid was dispatched back to Cairo, his last port of call. But the Egyptians
would not keep him either and, after 10 days in the departure lounge, Hamid was
put on a plane to Cyprus.

The Cypriots sent him back to Egypt; the Egyptians returned him to Cyprus.
Eventually he was sent to the country of his now long-expired passport - Somalia
- where he is now believed to be.

According to latest United Nations statistics, Pakistan has the largest single
refugee population in the world.

Estimates range between three million and four million, largely as a result of
the influx of Afghan refugees since 1978. It is hoped improving conditions in
their home areas will encourage their complete return.

Iran is host to almost three million refugees, comprising about 2.3 million
Afghans and some 600,000 refugees of other origin. A few live in camps - the
rest have been absorbed into the local economy - but their presence puts a great
strain on health services, food supplies and water. Since 1975, more than two
million Indo-Chinese are estimated to have left their countries. More than half
have been either kept in camps or resettled in China, Hong Kong, Indonesia,
Japan, Cambodia, Laos, Macau, Malaysia, the Philippines, Republic of Korea,
Singapore and Thailand.

More than 45,000 boat people are in limbo in Hong Kong. They are treated as
illegal immigrants and questioned to determine whether they are genuine refugees
fleeing from persecution or economic migrants seeking a better life in the
booming economy.

At a time when Hong Kong's citizens themselves are eager to secure places abroad
before the Chinese takeover in 1997, Britain and the colony have begun talks
with Vietnam which could lead to the repatriation of the thousands of Vietnamese
boat people in Hong Kong, whatever the boat people's will.

The facts and figures from dozens of other regions in Africa, Latin America and
elsewhere relate the pathetic future for refugees caught up in this global
crisis.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 3 photos; afghan refugee; sri lankan tamil woman;vietnamese child; TOP:
An Afghan refugee gathers firewood at a camp innorthern Pakistan; ABOVE: A Sri
Lankan Tamil woman arrivesin India to face a new life; RIGHT: A Vietnamese
childpeers through a fence at a Hong Kong refugee camp.

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1989 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              816 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                 January 25, 1989, WEDNESDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

YEARNING TO BE FREE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 254 words


As the Jan. 16 editorial on immigration so accurately stated, no group wants to
gain refugee slots at the expense of other refugees. The National Jewish
Community Relations Advisory Council, comprised of local and national community
relations councils, supports legislation to provide a more open legal
immigration policy for all categories of eligible immigrants. It is the
responsibility of our government to strive to maintain the pluralistic character
of our society. Our government must be sensitive to the plight of refugees
around the world, including Jewish refugees from the Soviet Union and refugees
from Indochina, Africa and Central America. We will continue to join with others
to press the U.S. government to meet its responsibility in the absorption of
refugees through increases in refugee slots and funding.  Maury Poscover
Domestic Issues Committee Jewish Community Relations Council Creve Coeur

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              817 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

              January 14, 1989, Saturday, SATURDAY SECOND EDITION

Court blocks man's deportation after refugee claim turned down

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 193 words


   The Ontario Supreme Court has blocked the deportation of an Ethiopian man
whose refugee claim was turned down this week.

A two-member immigration panel rejected 18-year-old Hussein Mohamoud's claim in
Niagara Falls on Jan. 10 and he could have been sent back to Ethiopia as early
as last night, immigration lawyer Maureen Silcoff said.

But Madame Justice Louise Arbour ordered immigration authorities to keep
Mohamoud in Canada until the court decides whether the new refugee system
violates the Charter of Rights, Silcoff said.

Mohamoud is an ethnic Somali from the Odagen region of Ethiopia in the Horn of
Africa, Silcoff said.

Ethiopia and Somalia have contested the territory for decades and went to war
over it in 1977.

Mohamoud has heard from friends in the United States that his mother was
recently killed by the Ethiopian army, Silcoff said.

Mohamoud's father was arrested by the Ethiopian army last February and hasn't
been heard from since, a group supporting Mohamoud's refugee claim said in a
news release.

His sister is also dead and his brother was tortured before fleeing to a refugee
camp in neighboring Somalia.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1989 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              818 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                   January 9, 1989, MONDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

EVENTS FOCUS ON REFUGEES' PLIGHT

BYLINE: Bill Smith Of the Post-Dispatch Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1094 words


Varinta Khounphannavong said he fled from Laos last month to escape service
inthe communist military.  Boris Iouioukine defected from the Soviet Union in
September, leaving behind his wife, two children and a country that he both
loved and hated.  And Jacob Masisi, a Moscow-educated chemist from South Africa,
said his choice was simple: Begin a new life in America or remain in Africa and
expose himself and his family to the possibility of execution at the hands of a
South African ''murder squad.'' The three men were among about 100 refugees who
took part Sunday in a Migration Week Mass at St. Joseph Shrine, 1220 North 11th
Street.  They are among 226 people who came to the United States last year under
the sponsorship of the Catholic Charities of St. Louis Refugee Center, according
to Richard Hayde, associate director for refugee services for the center.
''These are people who cannot return to their country for fear of persecution,
for religious or political reasons,'' Hayde said.  The Mass on Sunday and other
Migration Week events, Hayde said, are part of an effort to make area residents
more sensitive to the plights of refugees.  Masisi, 41, a native of South
Africa, said he had lived for the past few years in the tiny kingdom of Lesotho,
which is surrounded by South Africa. He said he had lectured there against South
Africa's policy of apartheid and had felt increasingly threatened by the
possibility of South African reprisal. Masisi said his name was included on a
list of people that the South African government had asked Lesotho officials to
expel from their country.  Friends and neighbors were killed by what he says are
government-sponsored ''murder squads.'' He said he was so worried that he had
spent the last months of his life in Lesotho moving from the home of one friend
to another, in an effort to make himself a more elusive target.  ''I felt very
soon they would be catching up with me,'' he said.  Even though he still has
been unable to find work in the St. Louis area, Masisi called the United States
''a country that abounds in opportunities.'' ''My life hasn't really come
together; I am still struggling,'' he said.  ''When you don't have a job, life
becomes difficult.'' Hayde, with Catholic Charities, said Sunday that his group
helps the refugees find affordable housing - usually in areas of south St. Louis
- gets basic furnishings and other household items for them and assists them in
finding employment.  The group has served more than 1,600 refugees since 1981,
he said.  Iouioukine, 37, also remains unemployed, although he can speak seven
languages.  A former interpreter for the Soviet petrochemical industry in
Ethiopia, Iouioukine said his run-ins with Soviet officials had begun early.
While working in Ethiopia, he said, he was reprimanded for associating with
Ethiopians and Indians. At one point, he said, he was seriously injured in an
automobile accident in Ethiopia while running an errand as part of his job.
Soviet officials were more concerned about the food and jewelry they had sent
him to buy than they were about his health, he said.  Eventually, he said, he
was returned to the Soviet Union, but he then sought asylum at the American
embassy in a trip to Greece.  ''I didn't want to leave my country,'' he said.
''But things were very bad there. I didn't desert my family; I'm going to bring
them here.'' Iouioukine, who comes from the Russian city of Krasnodar near the
Black Sea, said he had nothing but praise for the United States and its people.
''So many people took part in helping me settle here,'' he said. ''I didn't
expect so much.  ''We are told that people are very business-minded here, that
there is much crime and unemployment,'' he said. ''I never expected people to be
so humane, so kind.'' Khounphannavong sat in a basement hall of St. Joseph's
Sunday afternoon with three fellow Laotians, all of whom had left their country
to avoid being pressed into military service.  His father, a soldier, had fought
against the communists and was killed by communists in 1977, Khounphannavong
said.  ' 'I didn't want to be a soldier - not for the communists,'' he said
softly in broken English.  Nhan Thi Nguyen, 53, a Vietnamese refugee, said she
had been in St. Louis and the United States only one month. Her English, too, is
rough, but her message is clear.  ''No freedom in Vietnam,'' she said. ''I go to
America for freedom.''

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo; PHOTO (COLOR) by Gary Bohn/Post-Dispatch...Cay Nguyen holding
her daughter, Nguyen Anh Thu, after a Mass Sunday at the Shrine of St. Joseph,
1220 North 11th Street. At left is Cay Nguyen's sister, Huong Nguyen.

                  Copyright 1989 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


                              819 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

              December 31, 1988, Saturday, SATURDAY SECOND EDITION

Refugees pour in from danger zones

BYLINE: By Paul Watson Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 475 words


   History gives Osman Isse and his family from Somalia at least even odds at
winning their refugee claim.

Canadian officials accepted about 55 per cent of 455 Somali citizens whose
refugee cases were decided in 1986 and 1987.

That means members of the defunct Refugee Status Advisory Board believed the
successful Somali claimants had a well-founded fear of persecution because of
their political beliefs, nationality, race or religion.

But refugee claimants from some countries weren't so fortunate, according to
Immigration Canada statistics.

In a list of 14 major countries where Canada's refugee claimants come from, the
success rate ranges from zero for Portuguese and Jamaicans to about 74 per cent
for Ethiopians.

And for the most part, Immigration Canada's list of the countries where the
majority of our refugees come from reads like a guide to the world's hot spots.

Millions killed

Somalia and Ethiopia are neighboring countries in the Horn of Africa, where
civil war, drought and famine have killed millions of people in the last 14
years.

Only 218 Ethiopians, whose impoverished country is ruled by a Soviet-backed
regime, asked for asylum in Canada last year.

But several thousand Somalis have asked for refugee status here since 1986 when
the pro-Western dictatorship there stepped up a bloody campaign to crush a
northern guerrilla movement.

More than 1,500 Somalis have made refugee claims in Canada this year.

Refugee claimants from India, which Sikhs and others have fled for Canada, had
one of the lowest success rates. Just one out of 496 Indian citizens got refugee
status here in the 1986 and 1987.

About 60 per cent, or 406 of 671 Chileans, convinced federal officials in 1986
and 1987 not to send them back to their South American country ruled by
right-wing dictator Augusto Pinochet.

But Nicaragua topped the list of the 10 countries that send the most refugee
claimants to our borders.

More 3,564 Nicaraguans have told immigration officials they can't risk returning
to their homeland, where guerrillas supported by the United States have fought
an eight-year war against the government.

The now-defunct Refugee Status Advisory Committee couldn't provide figures for
the success rate of Nicaraguan claimants.

Iran is second on the list with 3,275 refugee claimants. Sri Lanka is third on
the list with 3,229 claims.

The collapse of Canada's refugee screening system started to make headlines
after 155 Sri Lankan Tamils were plucked from a crowded lifeboat off the coast
of Newfoundland on Aug. 11, 1986.

The Tamils said they were fleeing a civil war sparked by demands for a separate
state on their island homeland off the southern tip of India.

Trinidad, a Caribbean country with comparatively few political problems, placed
fourth on the top 10 list with 2,894 claims.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Star photo (Spremo) Ahmet Yimaz

                  Copyright 1988 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              820 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

              December 31, 1988, Saturday, SATURDAY SECOND EDITION

The fear of refugees in waiting

BYLINE: By Paul Watson Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1337 words

DATELINE: LACKAWANNA, N.Y.


   LACKAWANNA, N.Y. - Osman Isse has seen the room a thousand times in his mind
and listened to the echo of questions that will decide his future.

And he lies awake each night waiting for the immigration official to answer.

"I think about it every hour - no, every minute," said Isse, one of several
hundred refugee claimants waiting in the U.S. for hearings in Canada. "I'm
scared for myself and my family."

The 36-year-old Somali said he can't return to his homeland in the Horn of
Africa because he supported a northern rebel group trying to overthrow the
government.

Isse, his wife Sahra, 20, and their 5-month-old son Abdulaziz were caught up in
the scramble of both bogus and genuine refugees trying to enter Canada before
tighter rules take effect tomorrow.

Canada ranks second only to the United States in the list of developed countries
that have given a permanent home to refugees.

From 1975 through 1987, Canada gave landed immigrant status to 223,637 refugees,
according to the U.S. Committee for Refugees in Washington, D.C.

During that same period, the U.S. allowed 1,166,191 refugees to stay there.
France was third with 169,452 and Australia

ranked fourth at 150,859.

Isse and his family would have had a 65 per cent chance of staying in Canada if
their refugee claims had been decided last year.

That's the success rate for 403 Somali refugee claimants in 1987, according to
Immigration Canada figures.

Last year, about 27 per cent of refugee claimants from Africa, the Middle East
and West Asia won their cases. It was just under 1 per cent for Europeans, about
23 per cent for people from the Western Hemisphere and 19 percent for Asians.

But Isse made the mistake of trying to come to Canada by land, at U.S. border
points like the Peace Bridge.

While the debate raged over the growing backlog, the federal government
announced in early 1987 that refugee claimants coming from the U.S. would have
to wait there for hearings.

Several hundred people are still living in churches, homes and other emergency
shelters in the Buffalo area, in towns on the Quebec border and as far away as
Erie, Pennsylvania.

Thousands of others who arrived at air and sea ports across Canada were allowed
to stay until their claims are heard.

Some came because immigration scam operators told them Canada was an easy mark,
but others showed up because our reputation as a safe haven for genuine refugees
has spread around the globe.

Isse arrived at the Canadian border with his family after a 28-hour bus trip
from from Washington, D.C. on Nov. 8, and Immigration Canada officials told him
to wait four months in the U.S. for a hearing.

But he had no place to live and only $200 in his pocket.

So an immigration officer passed him a piece of paper with the address of La
Casa - The House.

More than 150 refugee claimants knock on the door of the rundown, two-storey
house in this town near Buffalo, N.Y., that is slowly choking as its steel mill
dies.

The former convent has welcomed about 3,000 refugee claimants turned away from
the Canadian border since February, 1987, and found shelter for any they
couldn't offer a bed or couch.

Thirty-five people are living in the 10-room house where the beds are packed in
so close that there's barely enough room to take two steps in any direction.

It costs up to $3,000 a month to provide food, medicine and transportation for
La Casa's residents, said Sister Bette DiCesare, who helps run the shelter for a
refugee group called Vive.

"We used to just automatically give out the name of the church and the address,"
DiCesare said between interviews with the latest refugee claimants turned back
from the Canadian border.

Being selective

"Now we're trying to make sure it's just those who need us most because we're
just stretched to our limits. We've had as many as 50 or 60 people here at a
time when we can't find housing for them in other churches."

People live at La Casa for as long as five months. They can't work in the United
States, so they do house chores like laundry and cooking. Local Catholic schools
have agreed to let some of the children attend classes.

But there's still a lot of time to sit around and watch TV, or worry about what
will happen when the waiting is over.

Some inevitably break down under the pressure, like a Somali government official
who asked for asylum at the Canadian border while he was supposed to be at a
conference in the U.S.

"Within about a week, he found out that as soon as the Somali government found
out he hadn't attended the conference and had actually defected, his whole
family was taken into custody," DiCesare said.

"The man was absolutely distraught. He sat in that chair and pleaded for us to
help change his hearing date before January because he knew the new rules were
coming into effect."

Getting tough

Former immigration minister Benoit Bouchard put out the word that Canada is
getting tough with bogus refugees with two bills in May and August of 1987.

Bill C-55 was drafted to make it quicker for immigration officials to separate
genuine refugees from so-called queue jumpers, or economic refugees in search of
better jobs.

Bill C-84 was aimed at people who smuggle refugee claimants into Canada and help
them concoct phony stories to support their claims.

The protests were quick and fierce.

A battalion of groups as diverse as the Autoworkers Union Movement, the Canadian
Council of Churches and the Canadian Bar Association attacked the proposed
crackdown as cold-hearted and unconstitutional.

The government got praise for finally moving to fix a system that was overloaded
and has left thousands of people hanging in limbo for up to eight years.

But critics say the new system would send genuine refugees home, possibly to
their deaths, in the bureaucratic rush to clear out false claims.

Immigration Minister Barbara McDougall announced this week she is setting up a
separate, $100 million system to clear the backlog of 85,000 refugee claims.

Anyone who made a refugee claim before Jan. 1 will appear in front of special
two-member panels.

If either the immigration department adjudicator or an independent refugee board
member believes the refugee claimant's story, he qualifies for permanent
residence in Canada.

Under pressure

McDougall was under pressure to quickly clear the backlog by letting any refugee
claimants who were working and had family in Canada stay.

But she said a so-called limited amnesty, or administrative review, would
destroy the integrity of the country's refugee screening policy.

The refugee pipeline to Canada is so clogged at the front end that relatively
few people have managed to make it through and get landed immigrant status in
recent months.

The government estimates that 70 per cent of the 85,000 claims waiting to be
decided don't fit the internationally accepted definition of a refugee.

By this fall, only 540 bogus refugees had been deported from Canada in 1988,
said Immigration Canada spokesman Gerry Maffre.

Isse and his family will get a home in Canada if they convince one of two
immigration officials that they are genuine refugees on Feb. 10.

He left Somalia to work in Saudi Arabia as a customer service agent in a Riyadh
telecommunications company 10 years ago.

When his contract was up and Isse was supposed to return to Somalia, he said he
couldn't because he belonged to the Somali National Movement.

The group is fighting the government of Mohammed Siad Barre, which the respected
monitoring group Amnesty International has accused of gross human rights
violations.

"The evidence reveals a consistent pattern of torture, lengthy and often
arbitrary detention of suspected political opponents of the government and
unfair trials of political defendants," Amnesty International said in a recent
report.

But Isse has to prove he is personally at risk if he is deported to Somalia and
sent home at Canadian taxpayers' expense.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Star photo (Mahler) Osman Isse and family; Chart (Immigration Canada)
refugees source country

                  Copyright 1988 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              821 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                          December 21, 1988 Wednesday

Would-be refugees arrive too late

BYLINE: CP

LENGTH: 171 words

DATELINE: ST. STEPHEN, N.B.


Canadian Press
  ST. STEPHEN, N.B.

A dash across the United States to the Canadian border ended
unsuccessfully yesterday for 10 people from Latin America and South Africa
who had hoped to claim refugee status.

Seven members of the group began driving non-stop from Florida on
Sunday after learning that a Canadian immigration adjudicator would be in
St. Stephen yesterday and possibly today. The other three flew to nearby
Bangor, Me.

They had hoped to claim refugee status before Ottawa's new immigration
legislation comes into effect next month.

But by the time the men arrived at the border, the adjudicator had left
for Campbellton, N.B., on the province's north shore.

'They're going to be allowed in under the old procedures and they'll  await
their (immigration) inquiries,' said Max Wolfe, a Fredericton-area  lawyer who
waited for the group at the immigration office.

The group of two Salvadoreans, seven Guatemalans and one white South
African, all in their 20s, will stay in Saint John until their hearings in
late January.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1988 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              822 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                     Herald

                            November 11, 1988 Friday

English classes are child's play

BYLINE: LESTER L

LENGTH: 475 words


The long list of names on a wall at the Enterprise child-care centre in
Springvale starts: Oliver, Poland; Beatriz, Chile; Vet Souphanh, Laos; Jose, El
Salvador.

There are few other child-care centres like Enterprise, where the children have
such diverse backgrounds but such a common reason for being there. Their parents
are all attempting to learn English.

The centre, funded by the Department of Immigration, Local Government and Ethnic
Affairs, was set up to give migrant families access to English classes.

It is one of the services which, according to the World Council of Churches'
Refugee Services, makes Australia stand out for its treatment of newly-arrived
migrants. The child-care centre is run in conjunction with the Adult Migrant
Education Service, also on site at the Enterprise Migrant Centre. It has a
bilingual staff, trained to provide a multicultural program.

According to the centre's acting co-ordinator, Mrs Joan Meredith, staff
recognise the differences and the similarities in the children.

"They are aware of the different cultures so they don't do anything offensive
and can respect the cultural days," she said. "We are also aware that for many
migrant families, this is their first experience of child-care services. If they
don't have a good experience here, they could go out into the community and
never again trust anyone with their children."

According to Dr Elizabeth Ferris, of the Geneva-based World Council of Churches'
Refugee Services, Australia's reception and language services for refugees are
well ahead of other settler countries.

She said the concept of a refugee reception centre and associated services, such
as those at Enterprise, were unique to Australia.

"In these terms, Australia's range of services are wonderful," she said. "For
example, in the United States refugees go straight to their sponsors, who in
some cases provide great personal service, in others, very bad." However, Dr
Ferris said there were some major gaps in Australia's services for refugees - in
particular, for refugee women.

Dr Ferris also said that although Australia took an adequate number of refugees
in terms of its population, it could take many more if its resources and
multicultural policies were considered.

Of the 143,000 migrants who arrived in Australia in 1987-88, 11,076 were
refugees.

Almost 6000 came from Asia; 2300 from Europe; 1800 from South and Central
America; 906 from the Middle East; and 137 from Africa. In 1988-89, 12,000
refugees will be accepted by Australia.

Dr Ferris was also critical of Australia's selection procedure."Australia needs
to not only look at how well a refugee will be able to adapt to Australian life,
but how much the refugee needs to be resettled," she said.

'IT'S A LONG TIME SINCE PEOPLE HAVE BEEN THAT KIND' - PAGE 13

END OF STORY

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Kindergarten teacher Huang Tu and mothercraft nurse Ann McLeod
with(from left): Jonathon, three months, of El Salvador; Oliver, one year,
ofPoland; and Lucy, four months, of El Salvador.

JOURNAL-CODE: DHD

                   Copyright 1988 Nationwide News Pty Limited


                              823 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   September 13, 1988, Tuesday, Final Edition

U.N. Refugee Aid Chief Faulted on Management;
Report Alleges 'Climate of Helplessness'

BYLINE: Ed Vulliamy, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A22

LENGTH: 938 words


A veteran relief expert who heads the U.N. High Commission for Refugees has been
sharply criticized by an internal U.N. panel, which charges that he is
responsible for poor management practices at a time when the commission faces
severe challenges in providing aid to more than 12 million refugees around the
world.

The report criticizing Jean-Pierre Hocke, the high commissioner, surfaces as
Hocke's three-year term draws to a close -- he is seeking reappointment in
November. Challengers include Norwegian Foreign Minister Thorwald Stoltenberg
and Finnish diplomat Martti Ahtassari, currently a U.N. undersecretary and
special representative to Namibia.

The restricted report, by the U.N. Panel on Discrimination and Other Grievances,
which is independent of the refugee agency, alleges "a general climate of
helplessness" at the commission that has led to the resignations of "highly
qualified senior staff . . . . " The Geneva-based panel, which submitted its
report in March, found that the "current management style at [the commission]
demonstrates the personalization and centralization of authority" around Hocke.

The Washington Post obtained the report, as well as a June 30 statement by
Robert van Leeuwen, chairman of the commission staff council, to representatives
of the 43 nations on the commission executive. The statement asserts that
despite the commission's "abiding commitment" to aid refugees, the working
"climate is marked by a lack of confidence [and] disaffection . . . . The
frustration of this commitment, due to continuing management problems . . .
seriously hampers our ability to serve refugees . . . . "

There are many millions more refugees in the world than the 12 million under the
umbrella of the commission, which, for historical reasons, is not responsible
for the Palestinians.  Among the refugees are about 5 million Afghans in Iran
and Pakistan; more than 1 million across the Horn of Africa; a million in
southern Africa, and several hundred thousand in Southeast Asia and Central
America.

The commission will spend about $ 500 million in aid funds this year. It has a
staff of 2,300 officers, 800 at headquarters in Geneva, and the rest in the
field as specialists, medical and supply personnel. The United States, Japan,
and West Germany, in that order, are the agency's biggest contributors.

Hocke, a Swiss, was named high commissioner in 1985 with U.S. support. The State
Department divisions concerned with the work of the commission, the Bureau of
International Organization Affairs and the Bureau for Refugee Programs, have
both reaffirmed full support for Hocke's reappointment. An official at the
Refugee Programs offices said: "We support him entirely. He has done a great
deal for the Horn, and in planning the repatriation of Afghans and in responding
to emergencies."

The grievance panel began its inquiry after two High Commission staffers, Yilma
Makonnen of Ethiopia and Nicolas Bwakira of Burundi, complained that they had
been denied new positions. The panel found that the two men were much better
qualified for the posts than the men eventually appointed by Hocke.

But the panel added, "It is becoming common practice to disregard the
qualifications, competence and seniority of staff . . . , " and called it "a
deplorable waste . . . . "

Other staff members said they had warned Hocke of what they called a
"frightening pattern" of resignations.

The panel also criticized what it said was Hocke's policy of hiring outside
consultants "reportedly at exorbitant cost, to do tasks . . . which could have
been accomplished more efficiently by [commission] staff."

Hocke, a veteran of the International Red Cross, arrived at the commission at a
time when some important member states were cool to the principle of asylum and
the number of refugees was growing. He was lauded by some sources for a
combative, effective management style.

But Roger Winter, director of the U.S. Committee on Refugees, a major U.S.
refugee organization, blamed Hocke for what he called a High Commission "retreat
. . . from its only statutory duty, that of protecting refugees in the fullest
legal and moral sense."

Hocke drew some criticism from within the State Department after he opened a
bureau in Kabul and went to Moscow for talks on the Afghan refugee problem; the
International Organizations office faulted this as "legitimizing the illegal
Afghan regime."

The Organization of African Unity last May complained that the commission had
made no allocation for South African refugees under the care of the African
National Congress (ANC). Brig. Gen. Hashim Mbita, executive secretary of the
OAU's Liberation Committee, berated Hocke for what he called "a steady and
substantial reduction" of assistance to refugees in the front-line states,
particularly Namibia.

Earlier this year, Hocke attracted attention after he ordered the burning of all
130,000 copies of an edition of the commission's monthly magazine Refugee before
distribution. The magazine contained a 14-page article critical of West Germany
for what the authors said was a declining commitment to refugee asylum. Hocke
was accused by some refugee experts of repressing it to appease the West
Germans, who contribute 10 percent of commission funds. Hocke has said that the
article was out of date and needed revision.

Hocke declined to discuss with a reporter any of the matters in this article. A
spokeswoman said he regarded the grievance panel report as "part of an appeal
procedure in which the high commissioner has participated and provided
documentation. The procedure is still going on."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1988 The Washington Post


                              824 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                          August 29, 1988, Monday, ONT

Burundi killing forces Rwanda to request aid

BYLINE: (REUTER)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 284 words

DATELINE: KIGALI, Rwanda


   KIGALI, Rwanda (Reuter) - Rwanda is asking for urgent international aid to
help cope with the flood of refugees and corpses flowing over its borders from
the violent tribal conflict in neighboring Burundi.

A Reuter correspondent in Kigali, Rwanda's capital, reported that dozens of
corpses are still being pulled out every day from the Nyabarongo River, which
forms the border between the two tiny central African nations.

The bodies are tied together in bundles, or arrive individually with their hands
bound. There have even been dead mothers with the corpses of their children
strapped to their backs.

Over 50,000 refugees have also poured in during the two-week conflict but a
Canadian diplomat in Kigali said yesterday the arrival rate has slowed.

Very poor nation

The Burundian refugees are mostly from the Hutu tribe, the majority in the
country but subservient to the minority Tutsi tribe. Burundi says about 5,000
people have been killed since fighting between the tribes broke out two weeks
ago but villagers have put the toll at tens of thousands.

Rwanda, one of the world's poorest nations, said Saturday it cannot afford
economically or physically to handle the refugees without aid. It noted it had
donated $200,000 to refugee relief funds and it also thanked eight countries -
Canada, Belgium, China, the United States, France, West Germany, Switzerland and
Zaire - for pledging aid.

Other aid has been promised by the European Community and the United Nations.

Rwanda has also said the refugees can't stay. The small state is already so
overcrowded that it refuses to take back thousands of its own refugees who have
fled because of tribal conflict.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1988 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              825 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           August 24, 1988 Wednesday

Canada gives refugee aid

BYLINE: REUT

LENGTH: 233 words

DATELINE: Oslo NORWAY


Reuter OSLO
   The United Nations said yesterday it will cost $600-million (U.S.) to
help refugees in southern Africa and only their high death rate keeps the
cost from climbing.

Canada pledged $4.2-million (U.S.) and the United States $10.5-million
in emergency aid on the second day of a three-day international conference
discussing the plight of about one million refugees and five million
displaced people in southern Africa.

The scale of the problem was highlighted by a paper prepared by the UN
development agency and distributed to the 500 conference delegates
representing 81 countries.

'Though the cost of rehabilitating around one million families  (representing
six million people) will be high - probably around $600-  million excluding
short-term food aid - it is far less than the cost of  continuing relief
assistance into the future,' the paper said.

It estimated the cost of supporting each refugee family at about $1,000
a year for a yearly total of $1-billion.

'To the extent that less resources are available for support, a  natural
equilibrium is achieved through increased morbidity,' the paper  said.

The pledges of emergency aid came in speeches from the Canadian and
U.S. delegation chiefs.

The conference chairman, Norwegian Foreign Minister Thorvald
Stoltenberg, has said the aim of the conference is not to collect funds
but to draw up an overall plan to deal with the crisis.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1988 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              826 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                   August 24, 1988, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Canada pledges $4.2 million to aid African refugees

BYLINE: (REUTER)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A31

LENGTH: 301 words

DATELINE: OSLO


   OSLO (Reuter) - Canada pledged $4.2 million in emergency aid to help the one
million refugees and five million displaced people in southern Africa.

The pledge, along with one of about $12.9 million ($10.5 million U.S.) by the
United States, came on the second day of a three-day international conference to
discuss the plight of the refugees.

But the conference was told it would take about $738 million (about $600 million
U.S.) to deal with the problem, and only the refugees' high death rate stops
that figure from rising.

The scale of the problem was highlighted by a paper prepared by the U.N.
development agency and distributed to the 500 conference delegates representing
81 countries.

"Though the cost of rehabilitating around one million families (six million
people) will be high - probably around $600 million (U.S.) excluding short-term
food aid - it is far less than the cost of continuing relief assistance into the
future," the paper said.

Serious damage

It estimated the cost of supporting each refugee family at about $1,000 a year,
giving a yearly total of $1 billion U.S.

"To the extent that less resources are available for support, a natural
equilibrium is achieved through increased morbidity," the paper said.

Canada's announcement was made in Oslo by Walter McLean, MP for Waterloo, on
behalf of External Relations and International Development Minister Monique
Landry.

"Canada remains firm in its commitment to the South African region and continues
to provide humanitarian assistance to those in need," McLean said.

Speakers on the first day of the conference Monday accused South Africa of
waging a campaign to destroy the economic infrastructure of Angola and
Mozambique through its support of right-wing rebels.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1988 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              827 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     July 23, 1988, Saturday, Final Edition

Canada Tightens Laws on Refugee Claims

BYLINE: Herbert H. Denton, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A24

LENGTH: 312 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, July 22, 1988


Tough immigration bills designed to give the Canadian government more power to
deny entry to bogus refugee claimants were approved yesterday after an
11-month-long, acrimonious battle in parliament.

Two new laws give the government authority to turn back ships carrying illegal
aliens and raise the penalties against persons helping illegal immigrants enter
Canada to fines of up to $ 10,000 and jail terms of up to 10 years.

Prime Minister Brian Mulroney had called the House of Commons into an emergency
session last August to pass the bills, but objections raised by church groups
and refugee aid organizations delayed approval.

Mulroney acted after a public outcry about abuse of Canada's immigration system
that followed the landing of 174 Sikhs off the coast of Nova Scotia. There had
been an uproar the previous summer after a boatload of Tamils fleeing refugee
camps in West Germany and elsewhere in Europe, where aliens are often prohibited
from working, had arrived in Canada off the coast of Newfoundland.

The new laws require that refugees seek asylum to escape political persecution
rather than to seek economic gain.

Under old Canadian laws, authorities were forced to give the benefit of the
doubt and allow entry to any alien who sought asylum, no matter how flimsy the
claim.

Often it would take years to hold a hearing on the claim. By then, many with
unfounded refugee claims had married Canadian citizens or taken other steps to
legalize their status. There is currently a backlog of about 50,000 such cases.

Illegal aliens flocked to Canada from Asia, South America, southern Europe and
Africa. Authorities said there even was a handful of Americans who claimed
political persecution in the United States.

In the new system, authorities will be able to send refugees back to "safe"
countries while their claims are being considered.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1988 The Washington Post


                              828 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           February 27 1988, Saturday

Books: Touching the essence of bravery - Review of 'My Happy Days in Hell' by
George Faludy

BYLINE: MARK LE FANU

SECTION: Issue 63014.

LENGTH: 528 words


The autobiography of Hungary's foremost 20th century poet - self-exiled, since
1957, in Canada - was first published, to acclaim, 25 years ago and has just
been re-issued by Corgi.

Many prison-and-exile memoirs have been published in the interim; the genre now
constitutes one of the recognizable sub-divisions of modern literature. At its
highest level - at the level of a Solzhenitsyn, say, or a Nadezhda Mandelstam or
a Galina Von Meck - such memoirs seem almost to have ousted the novel from its
pinnacle in modern letters: the place where society finds its finest, gravest
self-reflection. One is so bowled over at the biographical truth of what human
beings can go through, and have gone through, that invented fiction is
henceforth a frivolity.


Only a third of Faludy's book deals with the specific experience of imprisonment
and torture in the forced labour camps of Stalinist Hungary. The first
two-thirds of the memoir are taken with a richly evocative account of Faludy's
early life, his initial exile in Paris during the 1930s (refugee from Horthy's
fascism which he had lampooned in his verses); war-time wanderings in Northern
Africa; finally an agreeable period in the United States from which, however, he
chose to return in 1945, ostensibly to help rebuild his stricken country, but
actually into the waiting jaws of fate.

The character of the man that emerges from these Preliminaries is intriguing.
For at the same time as it is apparent that he is one of those rare spirits who
knows the tragic weight of things, it becomes, as the story goes on, no less
clear that he is an optimist, a fabulist, or perhaps in the end I mean merely a
poet.

Take the interlude in Morocco where he wound up in 1940 as a refugee from Vichy.
The episode contains some of the book's most richly detailed passages. Yet
'realistic' as the scenes are in terms of dates, names, conversations, the
episode resembles, elsewhere, a baroque dream lifted out of the Arabian Knights.
Faludy's intense erudition (he is as wittily learned vas Thomas Mann or
Marguerite Yourcenar) can't refrain from converting the dross of contemporary
experience into mythical or historical ore. Is 'reality' distorted in the
process? We can't tell. The author, at any event, comes across as a hedonist, a
connoisseur, a self-taught master of the 'art of life'; and this gives a special
flavour to the final third of the book that describes in detail the encroachment
of the Communist nightmare.

The battle that follows from this for our hero's body and soul is thrilling.
Faludy survived the ordeal, survived torture and starvation to set it all down,
like Solzhenitsyn, in the minutest detail. Heading this beautifully-written
testimony is to be put in touch, at times, with the pure essence of energy and
bravery. One closes the book with awe, sustained by the reflection - we hope not
illusory - that there are no misfortunes that the human spirit can't rise above.
The book's title is perhaps only sardonic on the surface. Happiness (by which
Faludy means boundless wonder and curiosity in front of the universe) seems to
be each man's ineradicable birthright.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited


                              829 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    January 19, 1988, Tuesday, Final Edition

Sen. Inouye's School (Cont'd.)

SECTION: EDITORIAL; PAGE A14; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 346 words


Irene Novak's letter ["Sen. Inouye's School in France," Jan. 7] is yet another
example of the ignorance of the U.S. taxpayer as to who is a refugee and who is
funding the refugees in the Arab-Israeli conflict.

For the past 40 years, we have heard only about the Arab refugees. Little is
known of the 856,000 Jews who lived in Arab countries before 1948, indeed, long
before the dawn of Islam. Of these, 830,000 were forced to leave their countries
of birth and find refuge in Israel, Europe and the Americas. These Jews left
behind incalculable assets in property and cultural and religious patrimony
accumulated from more than 2,000 years of living in these countries.

Most of these Jews arrived destitute to their new homes. Unlike their Arab
counterpart, Jews did not benefit from funds of the U.N. Relief and Works
Agency. Yet these Jews are the other side of the coin of the Middle East refugee
problem. Between 1949 and 1974, the United States and Israel contributed $
582,339,802 to UNRWA's budget, which was allocated to provide relief assistance
for all refugees of the Near East. This should have included Jews from Arab
countries as well. Instead, more than $ 1 billion to date has gone to the
rehabilitation of Palestinian refugees alone, who were refused resettlement by
their Arab brethren in the vast land of the Arab nation extending from the
Persian Gulf to the Atlantic Ocean.

Therefore, Irene Novak and others should not feel distraught by the allocation
of a meager $ 8 million for children of Jewish refugees from North Africa, which
has been allocated for learning and not for political or military ends.

Perhaps the time has arrived for Congress, the White House and the American
public to recognize the other refugee problem that has been neglected over the
past 40 years. In acknowledging their plight as well, we will discover the
missing part of the solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict.

MAURICE M. ROUMANI

College Park

The writer is a professor of political science and Middle Eastern studies at the
University of Maryland.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                       Copyright 1988 The Washington Post


                              830 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                   August 12, 1987, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Legislation endangers refugees, politicians, rights groups say

BYLINE: By Olivia Ward Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 551 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


   By Olivia Ward Toronto Star

OTTAWA - Refugee legislation reintroduced in Parliament this week is unworkable
and endangers the lives of refugees, say politicians, and human rights and
public policy groups.

Bill C-55 puts emphasis on sending refugees back to "safe third countries" they
have passed through, returning them to countries that once granted them asylum,
or sending them home.

But the United States and other potential "third" countries are closing their
doors.

Of the almost 200,000 asylum-seekers in Europe last year, it's estimated that
fewer than 9,000 will be granted permanent residency.

Most will be forcibly returned to their own countries. And some, like the Tamils
and Sikhs who landed in Canada, will pay large sums to smugglers who promise
them a new homeland.

An immigration department spokesman said Monday that although other Western
countries have made "no firm commitment" to accept claimants Canada rejects,
negotiations are in progress.

But, say refugee advocates, the number of countries that will take refugees back
is becoming limited. Even countries of first asylum - those bordering areas from
which refugees are fleeing - are becoming nervous about the numbers of newcomers
entering their territory.

"The majority of Western countries now feel they've done their bit, and are
concentrating on family reunification cases rather than new refugees," says a
spokesman for the United Nations High Commission for Refugees in Geneva.

Canada 'deluded'

Bill Frelick, a policy analyst with the Washington-based U.S. Committee for
Refugees, says Canada is "deluded" if it thinks the U.S. will take back Central
Americans or others who have passed through the country heading north.

"Canada may want to get rid of them, but I can see no indication that the
immigration service would accept them," he said in a phone interview. "Their
view has always been that once someone is over the border, they are no longer
our problem."

Frelick says the new Canadian legislation would create more "orbit refugees" - a
term for homeless asylum-seekers forced to move from country to country.

The West's reluctance to accept refugees is having an effect on countries of
first asylum, refugee monitoring groups say. And they are using tough tactics,
ranging from tightened legal requirements to violence, to reduce their own
numbers of refugee claimants.

Panic reactions

"Turkey is a very worrisome case just now," says Frelick. "It has recently made
a rule that only East Europeans can be classed as refugees, which means that
Iranians fleeing the country are being turned back."

Max Brem of the North South Institute, an Ottawa-based public policy group, says
that the focus on the "panicked reaction" of Western countries has covered up
the fact that Third World nations on the front lines are often more fragile and
ill-equipped to deal with large numbers of new residents.

In Africa, about 3.5 million people are displaced because of catastrophic
drought and warfare. And although refugees are generally accepted, the receiving
countries are too poor to support the new burden.

"Africans don't want to leave the continent as refugees," says Stephen Lewis,
Canada's ambassador to the United Nations and head of a UN task force on Africa.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1987 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              831 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                      July 17, 1987, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Thousands of other 'refugees' enter Canada at normal ports

BYLINE: By Jim Emmerson Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 735 words


   While Canada agonizes over its latest boatload of claimants to "refugee"
status, it's scarcely noticed that thousands of others have made similar claims
recently from normal ports of entry.

The largest number, by far, have come to Ontario entry points - Fort Erie,
Windsor and Niagara Falls - by foot, by automobile, bus and train.

Others have come from abroad by plane.

Many are turned back immediately but most are allowed into the country to begin
the long, laborious process of establishing their claim. If court appeals are
involved, it could take two years.

Ron Bull, immigration representative in Toronto, said 1,058 refugee claim cases
are being examined in Ontario, while another 203 applicants have been turned
back to the United States to await further inquiry.

And, Bull added, this covers only the period from Feb. 20 to July 10 this year.

In February, Ottawa clamped down on the growing tide of "refugees," removing
many countries from the list of those whose citizens enjoyed automatic
categorization as refugees.

2,000 a month

Visa requirements were imposed on most foreign nationals.

A church official working with refugee claimants already in Metro Toronto
estimates that about 2,000 "refugee" applicants a month were entering Ontario.

Mark Persaud, co-ordinator of the Toronto United Church Emergency Refugee
Relief, said "there are a number of reasons" why 174 people would be smuggled in
by boat off the Nova Scotia coast, as happened Sunday, if people can walk up to
the border, claim refugee status and be granted temporary admission.

"It is difficult to get to Canada by plane," Persaud said in an interview. "A
lot of people have to get false documents to get here. If they used proper
identification it would be difficult for them to come by normal means in seeking
political asylum.

"Some of these people - and a lot of them are Iranians - go to Turkey or
Pakistan and get false papers. This is not held against them. It is recognized
that when you flee from persecution you use whatever means you can to get to a
safe place."

'Action in Ontario'

Bull told The Star: "Most of the action, now, is in Ontario. There are a lot of
Latin American claimants. They are looking to Canada now that their hopes of
settlement in the United States have been dimmed."

But Canada has also toughened up its stance toward "refugee" claimants -
applicants many Canadians view as line-jumpers in the normal immigration
process.

To try to weed out people seeking economic advantage in Canada, Ottawa requires
visas of visitors from most Asian and Iron Curtain countries, Bull said. Brazil
was recently added to the list of countries where people must obtain visas
before leaving for Canada.

Those who get to the border seeking refugee status are subjected to thorough
checks, Bull said.

As a signator to the Geneva Convention on refugees, Canada is obligated to grant
asylum where there is genuine fear of persecution because of race, nationality,
religious belief or political affiliation, Persaud said.

Runs Tucker House

Persaud, who runs Tucker House on Avoca Ave., said he has about six would-be
refugees at a time on the premises.

Since Tucker House opened in 1985, about 400 applicants have been given
temporary shelter, he said, and of those "a significant number" met the refugee
criteria. He didn't have an exact figure at hand.

Most of the refugees have come from Chile, Guatemala, El Salvador, Eritrea,
Ethiopia and some from South Africa, he explained.

He said Sikhs are rare at his centre because the Sikhs, like the Tamils, are
absorbed by their own communities.

Dr. Tom Clark, co-ordinator of the Inter Church Committe For Refugees (supported
by nine churches), said he thought the latest furor over refugees smuggled
ashore in Nova Scotia is "a tempest in a teapot.

Claim rejected

"There are 18,000 claimaints to refugee status and if the (Canadian) system
worked properly half of those would be accepted," he added. "And here we are
suddenly asking a lot of questions about 174."

Clark rejected Immigration Minister Benoit Bouchard's claim that the Opposition
has held up the bill, which would make it easier to deal with the refugee
question.

"Some of his own caucus members spoke against the bill in the House and it's now
recognized as unfair and unworkable," Clark said.

See related stories on page A14

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1987 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              832 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                          July 14, 1987, Tuesday, ONT

Unwelcome refugees desperate for help

BYLINE: By Thomas Netter Special to The Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 573 words

DATELINE: GENEVA, Switzerland


   GENEVA - Unwelcome in Europe and the United States, many refugees from Sri
Lanka, South Asia, Africa and Latin America are becoming desperate, aid workers
here say.

In their desperation, more are turning to countries such as Canada for
sanctuary.

Refugee workers fear incidents such as the arrival Sunday of 174 illegal
immigrants in Nova Scotia and last summer's boatload of Tamils off Newfoundland
may become more frequent.

According to the United Nations High Commission for Refugees in Geneva, the
number of refugees requesting political asylum in the 12-nation European
Community increased by 50 per cent between 1985 and 1986 to about 165,000.
Provisional estimates put the total number by mid-1987 at about 180,000.

Rickety boats

Over the past decade, some 50,000 Tamils fleeing civil strife and economic
uncertainty in Sri Lanka have arrived in Europe via air links through East
Berlin or virtually any other means of transport from rickety boats to freight
trains.

But there is little to welcome the refugees in Europe:

* In West Germany Tamils are restricted in their movements, facing heavy fines
if they re-locate, forbidden to work and denied German language courses.
Legislators are studying measures that would tighten refugee laws;

* Denmark has begun planning a ban on all refugees lasting for one year to clear
asylum seekers from overflowing camps;

* Belgium has begun turning refugees back at its national borders;

* Switzerland, long proud of its status as a home for exiles, last year proposed
the deportation of some 1,000 Tamils, or about 10 per cent of the estimated
total in the country.

The proposal created a major political conflict even though the majority of the
Swiss appear to favor sending the Tamils home, and even voted in favor of more
restrictive refugee laws several months ago. The outcry by Liberal politicians
and refugee assistance groups has blocked the government's plans;

* In France the ultra-right has won continuing support by pleading with the
government to further restrict the arrival of new refugees.

Official and bureaucratic restrictions are often compounded by outright racism,
refugees claim.

France, for example, has been wracked by racist incidents involving verbal and
even physical attacks on mostly Third World, Arab or dark-skinned refugees.

In other European nations, Tamils and other refugees, primarily those from the
Third World, are facing similar and growing hurdles in their bids to find a new
home.

Steady deterioration

In short, the prospects for those seeking to flee their homeland appear bleak,
the aid officials say.

"The corollary to this is that external ramparts are being considerably
strengthened," a European Community spokesman said in a recent interview.

"There has been a steady deterioration in the legal and social position of those
seeking asylum in the European Community," said a report published by the
European Parliament earlier this year. Swiss activists fighting the government's
plans have made similar comments.

Switzerland, though not a community member, has been regarded as a prime country
of asylum and currently has a post-World War II high of 21,000 pending asylum
cases.

The more restrictive attitude of authorities in the community as well as
Switzerland appears to be based primarily on high unemployment and a rising tide
of xenophobia, community and Swiss officials say.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1987 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              833 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                     July 14, 1987, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Unwelcome refugees growing more desperate for help

BYLINE: By Thomas Netter Special to The Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 503 words

DATELINE: GENEVA, Switzerland


   GENEVA - Unwelcome in Europe and the United States, many refugees from Sri
Lanka, South Asia, Africa and Latin America are becoming desperate, aid workers
here say.

In their desperation, more are turning to countries such as Canada for
sanctuary.

According to the United Nations High Commission for Refugees in Geneva, the
number of refugees requesting political asylum in the 12-nation European
Community increased by 50 per cent between 1985 and 1986 to about 165,000.
Provisional estimates put the total number by mid-1987 at about 180,000.

Over the past decade, some 50,000 Tamils fleeing civil strife and economic
uncertainty in Sri Lanka have arrived in Europe via air links through East
Berlin or virtually any other means of transport from rickety boats to freight
trains.

But there is little to welcome the refugees in Europe:

* In Holland, where 174 East Indians reportedly began their voyage that took
them to Canada's shores Sunday, tough laws are aimed at cracking down on the
large numbers of illegal immigrants. Only a couple of hundred refugees a year
are accepted into the country and only if they can establish that their lives
would be endangered if sent back to their homeland.

Tamils arriving by air are locked up in a special refugee hotel at Amsterdam's
airport until they can be returned to the last country from where they came.
Other refugees escape detection by entering the country at the "quite open and
easy to cross" borders at Belgium or West Germany;

* In West Germany Tamils are restricted in their movements, facing heavy fines
if they relocate, forbidden to work and denied German language courses.
Legislators are studying measures that would tighten refugee laws;

* Denmark has begun planning a ban on all refugees lasting for one year to clear
asylum seekers from overflowing camps;

* Belgium has begun turning refugees back at its national borders;

* Switzerland, long proud of its status as a home for exiles, last year proposed
the deportation of some 1,000 Tamils, or about 10 per cent of the estimated
total in the country.

The proposal created a major political conflict even though the majority of the
Swiss appear to favor sending the Tamils home, and even voted in favor of more
restrictive refugee laws several months ago. The outcry by Liberal politicians
and refugee assistance groups has blocked the government's plans;

* In France the ultra-right has won continuing support by pleading with the
government to further restrict the arrival of new refugees.

Official and bureaucratic restrictions are often compounded by outright racism,
refugees claim.

France, for example, has been wracked by racist incidents involving verbal and
even physical attacks on mostly Third World, Arab or dark-skinned refugees.

In other European nations, Tamils and other refugees, primarily those from the
Third World, are facing similar and growing hurdles in their bids to find a new
home.

See related stories on pages A1, A8 and A9

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1987 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              834 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                     June 18, 1987, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Letters to the Editor: Refugee bill nothing to be proud of

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 360 words


   The harsh attitude heralded by the new refugee bill is already having its
psychological toll.

At the Canadian Centre for the Investigation and Prevention of Torture in
Toronto, torture victims from Asia, Africa and Latin America are extremely
worried, according to centre staff.

Unlike Canadians, they don't assume that any civilized government is sympathetic
to their plight and will ensure they are not sent back to the torture chambers.
In the new refugee bill and public suspicion about refugees, these people see
only danger. Alone in a strange city, separated from friends and family, some
are talking about suicide; anything is better than going back.

One hopes their fears are unfounded, but the new bill leaves lots of room for
doubt.

The chief danger is that most refugees arriving in Canada may soon be sent back
to so-called safe countries, if they passed through such countries on their way
here. The problem is, there is no guarantee they would be allowed to stay in
those countries.

For example, there is little doubt that the United States will be on the list of
safe countries; it would be politically unwise to exclude it. Yet for refugees
from Central America, the U.S. is anything but safe - Washington sends back more
than 95 per cent of refugees from El Salvador and Guatemala, despite those
countries' horrendous human rights records.

Many Canadians say they are sympathetic to genuine refugees but fear a tidal
wave of claims, both legitimate and false. This fear is unfounded; and the fact
it is promoted by the government shows a terrible unconcern for the true
situation of most refugees.

After the 1956 uprising in Hungary, Canada accepted 37,000 Hungarian refugees,
no questions asked. We took in more than 70,000 Vietnamese boat people in
1979-'80.

But in 1986, with a grand total of just 18,000 refugee claims, we were said to
be facing a tidal wave. And so now we propose to shut the door on virtually all
refugees, who are largely fleeing brutal regimes in places like Chile, El
Salvador, Guatemala and Iran.

It will be a sad day for Canada if the bill is passed.

TED WAKEFIELD

Toronto

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1987 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              835 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                           May 17, 1987, Sunday, Su2

Austria's forgotten refugees

BYLINE: By Arch MacKenzie Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. H5

LENGTH: 525 words

DATELINE: TRAISKIRCHEN, AUSTRIA


   TRAISKIRCHEN, Austria - The envelope pinned to the bulletin board outside the
headquarters of this sprawling refugee camp is addressed to Maria Varga, Grande
Prairie, Alta. It has been returned "address unknown."

Maria Varga, wherever she is in Canada, may have lost touch with Traiskirchen
camp but she is presumably a successful graduate of the Austrian refugee system.

Since the end of World War II, the system has handled more than 2 million
uprooted people, products of the upheaval of the war itself and the subsequent
fallout from political and social change in Central and Eastern Europe.

In Canadian terms, Austria gets the daily equivalent of the 155 Tamil refugees
from Sri Lanka who last August materialized via West Germany off Newfoundland
and changed the pattern of Canada's refugee-screening program.

Legislation tabled in the House of Commons May 5 perpetuates an emergency
crackdown imposed Feb. 20 to block landed status for refugee claimants.

The Canadian government has blamed a surge of claims from Portugal, Turkey and
now Central America for forcing a crackdown on applicants it says should be in
the lineup for immigration status.

But every day is refugee day in Austria, flanked by Czechoslovakia, Hungary and
Yugoslavia and within easy reach of Romania, Albania and Poland.

This nation of 7 million people is host to about 1,800 each of Czechoslovakians
and Hungarians, 1,300 Romanians, 500 Yugoslavs, 300 Poles and small groups from
Albania, Iran, Viet Nam and other points in Asia, Africa and the Middle East -
about 6,500 in all.

Dusted off

This day in Traiskirchen, built by the doomed Hapsburg empire as an artillery
cadet school and later used as a riding academy and wartime German military
camp, the refugees total 1,550, including 70 single females, 800-odd single
males and the rest family units.

Canadian officials, who supervise the annual migration to Canada of about 1,200
Austria refugees, say it is a rare refugee who is turned away.

Austria harbored 1.5 million displaced people when World War II ended in 1945.

At the time of the Hungarian revolt in 1956, there were still 114,000 refugees
here, and Traiskirchen was dusted off and thrown into the breach when another
150,000 Hungarians flooded in.

They were joined by 10,000 Yugoslavians.

The Czechoslovakian crisis of 1968 provided another 96,000 refugees directly and
66,000 via Yugoslavia, although many were simply pausing to weigh the risks of
returning home.

In the Polish upheaval of 1980-82, Austria took more than 33,000 refugees but
has since tightened entry requirements for Poles so that claimants now must find
personal sponsors here.

Austria has been a leading conduit for the movement of Soviet Jews, recording as
few as 251 in 1968 up to 3l,000 in the early 1970s, 50,202 in 1979 and 1,126 in
1985.

Canadian officials fret about the fact that only a few Austrian refugees reach
Canada with private sponsorship. Only about 85 of the 1,200 arrivals last year
received that kind of support.

Canada ranks second after the United States, which takes about 1,800 Austrian
refugees annually.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1987 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              836 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                              April 6, 1987 Monday

Refugees, immigrants object to new policy

BYLINE: GAM

LENGTH: 282 words


The Globe and Mail
  About 300 refugees and immigrants from Afghanistan, Africa, Vietnam,
Guatemala and other countries braved cold winds and freezing rain on the
weekend to protest against Canada's immigration policies.
   'There are refugees on the U.S. side of the border waiting to come to
Canada to live a life without war,' Sister Bonny Butler, a relief worker
with Central American refugees waiting in Buffalo to come to Canada, told
the rally at Toronto's Nathan Phillips Square on Saturday.
   'These people are desperately afraid. They don't want to come to
Canada because of the climate. They come here seeking peace.'
   In February, the federal Government announced tough measures aimed at
stopping or diverting a stream of people from entering Canada to claim
refugee status.

Under the new policy, all refugee claimants coming from the United
States are sent back to that country until an immigration hearing can be
held in Canada. In addition, all claimants must go through the refugee
determination policy.

Michael Schelew, a spokesman on refugee affairs for the Canadian
section of Amnesty International, said Canadians and the federal
Government must be made aware that if refugees are deported to countries
with poor human rights records, the refugees could be killed.

'Refugees are being turned away at the door to go back to an uncertain  fate,'
he said.

Dr. Joyce Kabalya-Senyonjo, who came to Canada as a refugee almost
three years ago, said it was difficult for her get to this country because
there are so few foreign missions.

'There are only four Canadian foreign missions in Uganda,' she said.  'It is
almost impossible to reach a Canadian foreign mission to get to  Canada.'

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1987 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              837 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                  March 8, 1987, Sunday, SUNDAY SECOND EDITION

'Superpower game' spawns millions of stateless citizens

BYLINE: By Olivia Ward Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 1220 words


   There are about 5 million people in refugee camps throughout the world,
living in conditions that range from poverty to squalor. Some - as in Lebanon -
are targets for political violence. Others, like Kampucheans in Thailand, are
turned out and moved away. Still others, like Indonesians in Papua New Guinea,
are forcibly returned to countries that persecute them.

There have been successful attempts to settle refugees from camps. But in the
main the camps are becoming permanent fixtures where children are born and grow
up.

And outside of them, another 15 million displaced people try to survive in
villages, slums or on the run. Some are forced to move within their own
countries. Many are trying to escape continuing conflicts that push them back
and forth like pawns on a chess board.

"Part of the problem is the superpower game," says York University political
scientist Reg Whitaker, author of a forthcoming book on Canadian immigration
policy. By supporting Third World conflicts, he says, Russia and the United
States cynically create stateless citizens for whom they will not take
responsibility.

"In El Salvador the Americans are sponsoring bombing campaigns to move people
out of what they feel are power bases. They're driving people into refugee
camps, but won't accept them in the U.S."

Local wars, civil wars and guerrilla conflicts are responsible for mass
migrations in Africa and Asia. And ongoing religious wars in the Near and Middle
East (sometimes abetted by superpowers) have created permanent refugees.

The following is a list of the most critical refugee areas, with latest
estimates for 1986 from the United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR).

AFRICA

SUDAN - One of the world's leading refugee countries, with 1.2 million displaced
people, most of them from Ethiopia, Uganda and Chad. New arrivals have
diminished slightly with civil strife on the East Bank.

SOMALIA - Refugee agencies now count about 700,000 refugees, most of them women
and children living in 36 centres throughout the country.

BURUNDI - The large refugee population of almost 268,000 is growing due to
unchecked fertility. Most refugees are Rwandese or Rwandese-born Ungandans whom
Burundi government hopes to repatriate.

TANZANIA - More than 207,000 refugees have arrived, most fleeing the military
government of Burundi. The majority have formed self-sustaining communities
along Lake Tanganyika.

ETHIOPIA - The entire southeastern part of the country is a vast refugee camp,
home to 180,000 refugees, most of them from Sudan.

UGANDA - The political upheavals of 1985 displaced more than 150,000 people
within the country. Most have fled to the western part of the country, forming
eight transitional communities.

ZAMBIA - More than 100,000 refugees have poured in from Mozambique and Anglola.
Downturn in economy and currency devaluation have made their survival more
difficult.

Asia

PAKISTAN - World's largest receiver of refugees, the vast majority from
Afghanistan. About 2.7 million people, mostly women and children, live in camps
that have been turned into makeshift villages by foreign aid. Population has
increased by 7 per cent in past year.

CHINA - Hong Kong has about 200,000 refugees, most from mainland China

THAILAND - More than 130,000 people live in refugee camps, most of them Laotian
and Kampuchean. Numbers have increased for the first time since 1979, but the
Thai government is moving aggressively to forcibly repatriate them.

PAPUA NEW GUINEA - About 10,000 Indonesian refugees are scattered through
isolated camps where malnutrition is major problem. Government has tried to
forcibly repatriate those suspected of belonging to a political independence
movement.

Near and Middle East

IRAN - About 2 million Afghan refugees have been resettled in Iran, dispersed
through 12 provinces. Government integrates refugees quickly.

ISRAEL - Occupied territories contain 1.5 million stateless Palestinians settled
on West Bank, Gaza Strip and East Jerusalem.

CYPRUS - About 200,000 people were displaced when Turkey invaded Greek Cypriot
territory in 1974. UNHCR still funds assistance projects for refugees.

LEBANON - More than 100,000 citizens are displaced within the country by
continuing wars. About 140,000 Palestinians are in refugee camps near Beirut,
and 271,000 Palestinian refugees live outside the camps. Attacks and blockades
of the camps have made them among the most dangerous territories in the world.

Latin America

MEXICO - Most of Mexico's 175,000 refugees are Salvadorans, the remainder
Guatemalans. Refugee camps are set up in southern states, where there are border
raids. Those who leave are having increased difficulty in finding work in
cities, or obtaining work documents as Mexican economy worsens.

HONDURAS - More than 60,000 refugees, many of them Miskito Indians from
Nicaragua, have settled in rural areas. Most are self-supporting.

COSTA RICA - Small, politically tranquil country attracts refugees fleeing civil
wars. Has about 27,000 refugees from Nicaragua and El Salvador, but cannot
absorb more into its 2.5 million population.

NICARAGUA - About 17,000 Salvadorans have fled and been integrated into the
country. Sandinista government offers assistance, technical and agricultural
training.

ARGENTINA - With economy in crisis, Argentina has accepted 14,000 refugees from
Chile, Uruguay and Indo-China. Numbers have been rising as political tensions in
region increase, in spite of return of some Uruguayans following change of
government.

Europe

FRANCE - Now records 174,000 non-naturalized refugees, many Africans and Asians.
Government funds refugee integration programs, but new applications are severely
restricted.

BRITAIN - Has 135,000 refugees, including large number from Hong Kong. After
1985 new status determination procedure reduced numbers significantly. Present
intake is less than 1,000.

WEST GERMANY - Government's open policy has brought total to 134,000, including
Tamils from Sri Lanka. Refugees live in "collective accommodation centres," some
of them closed because of squalid conditions. New centres are opening, and some
refugees are put in private apartments.

BELGIUM - Has taken 36,000 refugees, but now restricts entry because government
says receiving facilities are inadequate.

SWITZERLAND - Current total of registered refugees is 30,000, but government
doesn't favor open policy. It now favors "voluntary repatriation."

AUSTRIA - About 20,000 refugees have been admitted, many of them East Europeans.
In spite of resettlement attempts, numbers of people living in refugee centres
hasn't diminished very much.

Pacific

AUSTRALIA - Refugees now total 89,000. Government tries to naturalize them
routinely. Refugees include Europeans, Middle Eastern people, Asians.

NEW ZEALAND - Has taken 4,500 refugees, including recent Vietnamese refugees.

North America

UNITED STATES - Has taken about 1 million refugees since 1950s, but has cut back
yearly admission quotas in past two years to 63,000.

CANADA - Has taken about 360,000 refugees since 1950s, with yearly quotas of
about 12,000. Last year admitted 12,146 government-sponsored refugees and 5,067
privately-sponsored. Quota for 1987 is 12,000 government-sponsored, 4,000
private.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1987 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              838 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                February 22, 1987, Sunday, SUNDAY SECOND EDITION

Small border towns said refugees' best way in

BYLINE: By Walter Stefaniuk Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 553 words


   The quickest way into Canada now for Latin American and other refugees is
through out-of-the-way border towns, off the beaten path to sanctuary.

"At some of the smaller points of entry, it's conceivable that people would be
allowed in because (immigration officials) can schedule inquiries within 48
hours to get the refugee claims going," said Canada Immigration spokesman Gerry
Maffre in Ottawa last night.

"That's the hook - if they can schedule hearings within 48 hours, then they'll
let the person in."

Scores of refugee claimants trying to cross into Canada via the United States
have been turned back at major entry points in Ontario and Quebec since
Immigration Minister Benoit Bouchard imposed tighter controls on the flow
Friday.

They must now wait at the border - unless they face deportation to their
homeland by the U.S. government - until their status is established by the
hearing.

Points of entry

Maffre said that at major points of entry, "the numbers are just beyond what the
officers can handle along with the other immigration work they have to do."

Precise figures of those admitted and those turned back won't be available until
a tally is made by managers Monday. So far, no claimants have shown up at places
such as Sault Ste. Marie or Fort Francis in Northern Ontario. Immigration
officers at popular entry points for refugees in southern Ontario said they were
not authorized to comment on the numbers knocking at the door.

But two bus loads of Latin American refugee claimants, about 33 in all, have
been turned back at the Blackpool crossing in Lacolle, Que., about 60 kilometres
(36 miles) south of Montreal, until hearings into their status can be arranged.
Another six were turned back after trying to enter at Phillipsburg, Que.

Quebec, because of its proximity to New York city with its high numbers of Latin
American refugees, is by far the most used doorway to Canada.

The government measures ordered Friday came after the refugee flow via the
United States - which totalled 1,600 people for all of 1980 - began to rise in a
torrent since last fall, bringing 1986 totals to 18,282 people.

British Columbia

And 6,120 refugee claimants entered Canada just in the first six weeks of 1987.
A total of 3,989 came to Quebec, 1,672 to Ontario, 396 to British Columbia and
63 to the other provinces.

The largest groups originally came from strife-torn Latin American countries
such as El Salvador (2,294), Chile (1,010) and Guatemala (600). More than 400
each arrived from Sri Lanka and Iran, with most of the rest from other Middle
Eastern countries and Africa.

About 700 of those claimants crossed into Ontario on Fort Erie's Peace Bridge
which, along with Niagara Falls, Windsor and Sarnia, is in the London
immigration district, said Roger White, an immigration spokesman in Metro.

The controversial cancellation of the so-called B-1 list of 18 countries -
including El Salvador, Guatemala, Sri Lanka and Iran - to which Canada did not
deport people means claimants from those countries can be returned home if they
are not granted refugee status.

Previously, claimants from B-1 list countries had been automatically issued
special minister's visas which enabled them to enter Canada and work while
awaiting the results of their hearings.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1987 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              839 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                    January 20, 1987, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Tory MP wants visa requirement for people fleeing Central America

BYLINE: (CP)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. C10

LENGTH: 485 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


   OTTAWA (CP) - The federal government should impose a visa requirement on
Central American citizens if they are abusing the refugee system to live in
Canada, a Progressive Conservative MP says.

Tory Ross Belsher (Fraser Valley East) also criticized the government's handling
of the refugee situation over the last few months.

Nearly 1,000 Central Americans seeking refugee status entered Canada in the
first two weeks of 1987, immigration officials confirmed last week. Many entered
Canada from the United States.

Most are from El Salvador and Guatemala, and came here because they feared being
deported by the U.S. government to their countries of origin despite the
possibility they would face political persecution. The United States does not
recognize all Salvadorans and Guatemalans as refugees despite the poor human
rights situations in both countries.

"If we're going to retain a fairly open refugee policy, then there's going to
have to be a number of countries from which we insist on a visa along with any
applications to visit our country - and not just grant wholesale visiting
rights," Belsher said outside the House of Commons yesterday.

Tighten doors

"There's no problem with American citizens or British citizens - but we're going
to have to tighten up our doors."

Anyone can apply for refugee status upon arrival in Canada. Some would-be
immigrants seeking better economic conditions do so because an application for
refugee status takes up to four years to process and they can settle here in the
meantime. Claims for immigrant status are processed more quickly.

Belsher noted that Tamil refugees were granted ministerial permits before the
government knew they had actually come via West Germany.

He also cited the recent influx of Turkish nationals who requested refugee
status in Montreal.

"We became aware in October that a number of Turks were starting to abuse the
system and we didn't impose a visa requirement until late December or early
January," Belsher said.

In the Commons, Belsher asked Immigration Minister Benoit Bouchard about "a
possible influx of people of Central American extraction by way of the United
States," and what the government is doing to prevent the "possible influx and
abuse of Canadian policy."

Political refugees

Bouchard told the Commons the government will take action if necessary, but for
now it will continue to "watch the situation very closely."

Bouchard said last week the people from Central America can't be compared to
those who have abused the system because many are political refugees.

Belsher claimed the minister's response was "incomplete," and said he will raise
the matter again.

Canada recently imposed a visa requirement on Turkey and four African countries.
Citizens of those countries must now obtain a visa from Canadian officials there
before visiting or travelling through Canada.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1987 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              840 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            January 8, 1987 Thursday

Don't spurn refugees, Canada urged

BYLINE: CP

LENGTH: 762 words

DATELINE: Ottawa ONT


Canadian Press
  OTTAWA
   The federal Government must not turn its back on political refugees,
despite widespread concern that phony claimants are abusing the system,
the North-South Institute says.

The independent research institute, in its annual review of Canadian
foreign policy released yesterday, expressed concerns similar to those of
immigrant aid groups, who are worried that Ottawa may soon move to
restrict access to full hearings by refugee claimants and their rights of
appeal.

'This turning back on Canada's liberal humanitarian tradition is  vigorously
opposed by all groups concerned with refugee rights,' the  annual review says.
'Other approaches are needed to curb abuses of  Canada's refugee system.'     In
a series of observations on other issues, the institute:   . Congratulates the
Conservative Government on its leadership role in  Commonwealth sanctions
against South Africa, its efforts at the United  Nations to relieve African
famine, and its prominent role in La  Francophonie, the French- speaking
counterpart of the Commonwealth;   . Warns that free-trade negotiations with the
United States 'may have  been oversold' and urges a higher priority for
multilateral initiatives  through the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade;
. Expresses satisfaction at Prime Minister Brian Mulroney's commitment to
getting UN finances in order, but takes a slap at Mr. Mulroney for his
appointment of former Montreal mayor Jean Drapeau to the sensitive post of
ambassador to UNESCO, the UN Educational, Scientific and Cultural  Organization.
. Regrets the increasing tendency to tie foreign aid to the interests of
domestic Canadian industry, often providing a subsidy to the Canadian  supplier
while raising costs for the recipient;   . Calls on the Government to help
revive the stalled Contadora peace  process, which seeks a negotiated settlement
between leftist Nicaragua and  its Central American neighbors.

Roger Young, acting director of the institute, told a news conference
he has no easy solutions to the refugee issue and acknowledged it may be
necessary to impose visa requirements on visitors from some countries to
prevent abuses.

Immigration Minister Benoit Bouchard has said he may require visas for
Turkish visitors in light of a recent flood of arrivals from that country
- some of whom have apparently been encouraged by brokers and other
middlemen to make spurious claims for refugee status.

Canada has come to be considered an 'easy mark' by some bogus
claimants, and visas or other deterrent measures may be needed in the
short term, Mr. Young said.

In the longer term, however, Canada must remain open to legitimate
refugees and should not take the regressive step of tightening access for
all just because there are abuses by some, he said.

Mr. Young said he hopes that Mr. Mulroney will use a visit to Africa
later this month to reaffirm Canada's battle against apartheid and to
offer financial aid to the black front-line states that could be hurt by
South African retaliation against Western sanctions.

The institute, in its written report, argues against any relaxation of
sanctions but also extends an olive branch to white South Africans by
reminding them that 'their own legitimate place in the country' can be
preserved if they enter serious negotiations to end apartheid.

Turning to free trade, the institute says talks with the United States
'likely will not be as comprehensive nor as easy as once thought,'
partly because of U.S. reluctance to exempt Canada or any other country
from existing U.S. trade laws.

The main value of the talks may turn out to be that they provide a
dress rehearsal for wider discussions within GATT that hold the
possibility of increasing Canadian markets in Asia, the Pacific and Latin
America.

Mr. Young said he was disappointed that a political appointee such as
Mr. Drapeau, rather than a career diplomat, was chosen as ambassador to
UNESCO. The troubled UN agency has been criticized by many Western nations
for extravagant spending and alleged anti-Western bias.

The aging Mr. Drapeau, with his recent history of illness, may 'not be
in a position' to handle the work load and the delicate task of balancing
various national interests, Mr. Young said.

The North-South Institute, established in 1976, describes itself as a
non-profit, non-partisan, independent organization providing research and
information to policy makers and the general public. Bernard Wood, head of
the institute, has served as a personal emissary of Mr. Mulroney in past
talks on South Africa with the heads of other Commonwealth governments.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1987 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              841 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                          December 31, 1986 Wednesday

Turkish delight?

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 512 words


Immigration Minister Gerald Weiner should therefore impose a visa
 requirement on Turkey immediately, if not sooner. But that will not end
 such abuses. Every time Canada imposes a visa on one country, it finds
 itself targeted by nationals of another. The Turks are only the latest to
 play "refugee roulette."

Last summer, Canada imposed a visa - very belatedly - on Portugal. In
 1985, it took aim at the Dominican Republic; in 1984, at Jamaica, Guyana,
 Peru and Guatemala; in 1983, at Sri Lanka and Bangladesh; in 1981, at
 India; in 1980, at Haiti; in 1979, at Chile; in 1978, at South Africa,
 Cuba, El Salvador, Ecuador, Ghana and Uganda. Some of these inflows were
 substantially composed of authentic refugees; most were not.

Canada now imposes visas on 93 countries. Yet the roulette wheel still
 turns. And with each go-round, a few thousand more phony claimants enter
 the refugee determination process alongside the sincere ones. Between May
 and the end of November, 5,400 claimants - mostly Portuguese, Turks and
 Chileans - moved into the line for an oral hearing before the refugee
 status advisory committee (RSAC).

Thanks to additions of manpower, claims can now clear RSAC in six
 months, but its rulings may be appealed to the Immigration Appeal Board
 and subsequently to the courts. These are vital protections for serious
 claimants, but the Portuguese and the Turks are manifestly unfounded
 claimants. And they will be joined by others unless Ottawa does more than
 serve as the croupier at the roulette wheel.

One possibility would be the imposition of a universal visa (with
 exemptions for the United States and a few West European countries). The
 United States and Australia have adopted such a system, but former
 immigration minister Lloyd Axworthy spurned the idea when it was proposed
 in the Robinson report on illegal immigration.

The idea merits a second look. While it seems a drastic step, it might
 only take us in one fell swoop toward a policy that we are now approaching
 one country at a time. It would cut down on a current practice whereby
 nationals from a country under visa acquire fake passports of visa-free
 countries in order to pass unhindered into Canada.

Another possibility would be to deny manifestly unfounded claimants the
 right to a full refugee determination process. Currently, Ottawa has moved
 to deny access to would-be applicants who have established refugee status
 elsewhere or who do not declare themselves refugees within six months of
 their arrival in Canada. Similar "access controls" could be applied to
 nationals whose homelands, in the designation of the immigration minister,
 do not produce refugees.

The churches oppose such designations as discrimination on the basis of
 nationality. Would they be a denial of equal protection before the law, as
 guaranteed by the Charter of Rights? Or might they be "reasonable limits .
 . . in a free and democratic society"? Mr. Weiner may be right to view
 these specific measures as Draconian and unconstitutional. But he cannot
 simply play the little Dutch boy who sticks his finger in the dike.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1986 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              842 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           December 13, 1986 Saturday

Canada proves a kind exception for refugees

BYLINE: SHELDON GORDON

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. D3

LENGTH: 621 words


But perhaps even more crucial has been Canada's maintenance of its
 postwar liberalism toward asylum-seekers at a time when the United States
 and Western Europe have retrenched. Despite the backlog of refugee
 claimants and the initial public dismay at the arrival of the Tamil boat-
 people in August, Canadians - led by the churches - have remained
 relatively compassionate.

In 1982 the UNHCR asked its members not to deport asylum-seekers whose
 homelands were convulsed by violence, even if the individuals did not meet
 the narrow criteria of the UN convention on refugees (a "well-founded fear
 of persecution" based on race, religion or nationality). This was a
 recognition that most of the world's 10 million refugees have fled war,
 not persecution.

In response, Ottawa has designated 18 countries to which it will not
 deport individuals. Exiles from these states are allowed to stay on
 minister's permits, perhaps later to be made landed immigrants on
 humanitarian grounds. Numerous Salvadoreans and Sri Lankans have followed
 this Canadian route. In contrast, the United States and Western Europe
 dismiss such exiles as economic migrants.

The overwhelming majority of Salvadorean asylum-seekers who reach the
 United States are deported; at least 52 of them later have been killed in
 their homeland. Opposing this harsh official stance, a network of 50,000
 U.S. church people has provided illegal sanctuary for the Salvadoreans.
 (Seven churchmen have been prosecuted for their efforts.)

In Western Europe, liberal societies such as France, West Germany, the
 Netherlands, Sweden and Denmark have tried to roll up the welcome mat.
 Streams of Iranians, Palestinians, Tamils and other exiles land on their
 doorsteps, only to be spurned as bogus refugees. Often they are shunted
 from one European country to another, winding up in refugee "orbit."

West Germany, overwhelmed with 600,000 asylum-seekers, prods them to
 move on by denying them the right to work during the first two years,
 refusing them language courses and sheltering them in overcrowded
 conditions, which the UNHCR has criticized as a calculated inducement to
 leave.

Even so, refugees who do not make it to the West may be even worse off.
 Many developing countries are not even signatories to the UN convention,
 so Asians, Africans and Latin Americans who seek refuge in neighboring
 states may end up in wretched holding camps where disease and external
 attacks are constant perils.

In Honduras, Nicaraguan refugees have been kidnapped by the contras,
 while Salvadorean refugees continue to be harassed by the Honduran
 military. In Thailand, refugees in the Laotian and Cambodian border areas
 are vulnerable to military onslaughts. In Lebanon, Palestinian refugees
 are exposed to artillery fire from Lebanese Shiites and to air attack by
 Israel. South African forces have raided refugee centres in Zambia,
 Zimbabwe and Botswana.

For refugees who are either in "orbit" or under fire, the UNHCR has
 become a beleaguered support group. It has increased its staff at refugee
 camps to try to improve protection, and it has initiated working groups
 with the West European nations to find a way to share the burden of Tamil
 and Iranian refugees.

But it is hampered by its "poor relative" status in the UN family. Its
 mandate, unlike those of other UN agencies, has to be renewed every five
 years, and the UNHCR lacks an assured level of financing from year to year
 - actual contributions last year fell $50-million short of the amounts
 pledged by its 34 donors. Even Canada, one of the most reliable donors,
 has allowed its funding to decline in real terms.

If the Nansen medalist rests on its laurels, what hope is there for the
 UNHCR to come between homelessness and hopelessness?

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1986 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              843 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 23, 1986

Visa rule allows special cases / New Home Office immigration guidelines issued

BYLINE: By DAVID HENCKE

LENGTH: 410 words


MPs are to retain the right to stop immigration officers sending back refugees
and students who arrive in Britain without visas, under guidelines released by
the Home Office yesterday.

But the new rules, announced by Mr Douglas Hurd, the Home Secretary, on Tuesday,
will abolish MPs' rights to stop the removal of newly-arrived visitors to
Britain from 71 countries. Refugees and students will be the main exemptions.


The Home Office said yesterday that MPs would also keep the right to halt the
sending back of visitors from all countries where visas were still not required
while their cases were considered.

This covers South Africa, the Caribbean, Hong Kong, the EEC, the United States,
Australia, New Zealand, Canada and many central and south American countries.

Last night Mr Gerald Kaufman, Labour's shadow home secretary, who strongly
attacked Mr Hurd's statement on Tuesday, said that the new guidelines still
looked a shambles.

He intended to lead a team of Labour MPs to see Mr Hurd next week after
Parliament had debated the changes in the guidelines.

In the Commons, the Junior Foreign Office Minister, Mr Tim Eggar disclosed that
it would cost more than pounds 120,000 a year to post an entry clearance control
officer to India.

In reply to a series of written questions tabled by Mr Greville Janner (Labour,
Leicester West), Mr Eggar said the cost of the new controls would be met from
visa fees.

He told Mr Janner: 'The maximum cost of posting an entry clearance officer to
India is pounds 126,000 per year based on 1986/87 prices. This relates to
Bombay, where costs are higher.

By Seamus Milne

An arson attack on the offices of the Joint Council for the Welfare of
Immigrants was yesterday being investigated by police.

The attack took place at the organisation's offices in Islington, North London,
late on Tuesday night, a police spokesman said. The arsonists broke in and set
light to furniture, but a passerby called the fire brigade and damage was
limited.

Ms Anne Owers, the council's general secretary, said yesterday that the attack
followed abusive phone-calls and letters which appeared to have been triggered
off by publicity surrounding the controversy over visas for African and Asian
visitors.

On Tuesday morning, Ms Owers received an unstamped racist letter at the office
from 'The English Brigade,' which threatened: 'We are keeping an eye on you and
will get you. '

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              844 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                     October 3, 1986, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Why Americans should support the U.N.

BYLINE: By Stephen Thiermann

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 730 words


   The relationship of the United States to the United Nations is at a turning
point. The question is whether the U.S. will abide by its treaty commitments and
continue its assessed contribution to that organization, or whether it will
unilaterally reduce that contribution, thereby weakening the U.N. at a time when
the world desperately needs it.

If Congress reduces U.S. funding, the losers will include refugees in the Middle
East, hungry people in Africa and other parts of the world, and the U.S. itself.

Staff workers with independent international development and emergency
assistance organizations know that, in Africa, Asia, Latin America and the
Middle East, the U.N. provides crucial humanitarian services in emergency
situations, aid to refugees, and programs that encourage self-reliance and
support a new status for women.

Private agencies can innovate, take risks and set examples; they cannot,
however, wipe out disease, feed the starving who are caught up in vast droughts,
relocate millions of refugees, or give a fresh start to whole regions in search
of development. They rely, as do their thousands of contributors, on the
multiple capacities of the U.N. and its agencies.

Furthermore, the U.N. provides a stabilizing international presence that allows
private agencies to reach out to victims caught up in political conflicts over
which they have no control. For humanitarian service organizations in the Middle
East, in Southeast Asia and in Central America, the U.N. plays an indispensable
role, enabling them to respond to the needs of those who would otherwise be
outside the reach of their compassion.

Although we frequently hear that the great powers do not need the U.N., in fact
the nuclear powers need the organization more than anyone else does. Unforeseen
events can draw us into a vortex, leaving our governments with few means of
getting out. When worse comes to worst, the U.N. Security Council or the Office
of the Secretary General provides an internationally acceptable setting in which
nations can move away from rigid positions and toward solutions. The Congo
crisis, the Cuban missile crisis, and the 1973 Middle East war are examples.

In another area, the U.N. has been able to play a unique role in focusing world
attention on critical needs of our day. Vitally important international
gatherings that have been held on the environment, on women, and on the debt of
African nations would be unimaginable without the U.N. So would the
internationally supported cleanup of the Mediterranean Sea - one of the few
projects on which Arab nations and Israel are co-operating.

The subject of current congressional debate is $210 million, the American share
of the general U.N. budget. While vital to the successful operation of the U.N.,
this amount is minor in comparison with the total U.S. budget. The Pentagon
spends in three months more than the whole world has spent on the U.N. in the
last 40 years.

Looked at another way, each U.S. citizen pays $1,254 yearly for the defence
department, but less than $1 for the work of the U.N.

The U.S. has achieved pre-eminent military power and a society of abundance. But
is this the only face the people of the U.S. want to put forward to the world?
Or do they wish also to be recognized as an enlightened nation in the service of
human dignity, human progress and international co-operation?

If this seems an irrelevant consideration, remember that by the time the youth
of today reach maturity, the U.S. population will represent just 3 per cent of
the world population. Future generations of Americans will want to be recognized
for carrying their fair share of international responsibility. U.S.
participation now in taking funds away from the U.N. would have the lasting
effect of isolating these future generations from much of the rest of the world.

Certainly the efficiency of the U.N. system can be improved. Yet it would be
tragic if, as a result of congressional concerns for these reforms, the U.S.
were to withdraw support and undermine the ability of the U.N. to fulfil its
essential mission for all of us.

* Stephen Thiermann is the former Quaker representative at the United Nations
and now serves as vice-chairman of the board of directors of the American
Friends Service Committee, an independent international aid organization.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of group of Ethiopian famine victims

                  Copyright 1986 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              845 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                              May 23, 1986 Friday

Xenophobia a threat, UN refugee chief says

BYLINE: VICTOR MALAREK; The Globe and Mail

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 495 words


Rising xenophobia and compassion that is wearing thin in Western Europe
 - feelings that at times seem to be gaining a foothold in Canada and the
 United States - pose serious threats to refugees, a United Nations
 official says.

Jean-Pierre Hocke, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, said
 yesterday that ''negative attitudes in public opinion are being translated
 by political parties and governments into negative policies, and this is
 of grave concern to us."

He said the general public has confused to an alarming degree the
 plight of genuine refugees with that of ''economic migrants."

His mandate is to deal with refugees, but he believes Western
 governments must come to grips with the larger issue of economically
 inspired migration.

''Since the movement of people will most probably last for quite some
 years to come, the sooner political authorities react and start accepting
 it as a problem . . . the sooner there might be different attitudes and
 hence, eventual solutions.

''Trying to be very practical and not philosophical, this is the reason
 I insist on this basic attitude of accepting the fact that the world is
 faced with a real problem, . . . that it has to do with root causes that
 are not of UNHCR responsibility but which have to do with the whole North-
 South issue of economics, trade, the debt, unemployment. . . ."

As long as these problems are not dealt with in concrete terms, Mr.
 Hocke said, ''the consequence will be the erratic movement of large
 numbers of people" looking for better prospects.

Mr. Hocke, who took over as head of the UNHCR in January, is in Ottawa
 for discussions with Government officials on Canada's role in refugee
 issues. Canada, like all Western democracies, has signed the United
 Nations convention and protocol on refugees but Mr. Hocke touched on what
 he believes is a flaw in the definition of a refugee.

The definition describes a refugee as a person fleeing a homeland
 because of political, religious, racial and ideological persecution.

A refugee is not someone fleeing war or internal conflicts, although
 Canada's policy has been not to send people back to countries where such
 conflicts rage.

Mr. Hocke said the Organization of African States expanded its
 definition of a refugee in 1969 to include what he described as ''violence
 criteria."

''No other country has recognized this formally or informally outside
 Africa, yet if you look at the world, the single most important factor for
 people fleeing their countries is violence.

''To forget about this violence factor, even though you could do it
 legally . . . is not right morally. You must recognize the very obvious -
 that hostilities are going on. There is fighting and people are fleeing."

Mr. Hocke said governments must not ignore these issues, because in
 some way - in the form of refugees and economic migrants - it will end up
 on their doorstep.

The answer, he said, lies in large part with Western governments'
 facing the problem and working to find solutions.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1986 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              846 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 10, 1986

Third World Review: Three peaks to climb / Problems facing Jean-Pierre Hocke,
the new Swiss head of UNHCR

BYLINE: By MARTIN BARBER

LENGTH: 889 words


This week the United Nations acquired a new High Commissioner for Refugees.
Jean-Pierre Hocke, the Swiss Director of Operations in the International
Committee of the Red Cross, comes with one important advantage over his
predecessors; he already knows the major refugee situations around the world in
great detail. The ICRC has taken him regularly to Indochina, the Horn of Africa,
Pakistan and Central America. He knows the people in the provinces as well as in
the capital cities.

But Mr Hocke faces an awesome challenge. If his tenure is to be counted a
success he will have to make progress on three fronts. First he must disentangle
UNHCR from the longstanding programmes, where UNHCR's bottomless assistance
funds have provided an excuse for not finding a solution. Ten years after the
change of governments 'boat people' are still leaving Vietnam, 'land people'
still escape from Laos and Cambodia. They have to be maintained in expensive
camps in Hong Kong, Malaysia, Philippines, Indonesia, Thailand. Even the US
government is seriously worried whether the people involved can any longer be
described as 'refugees.' UNHCR plans to spend some dollars 53.5 millions on
helping these people in 1986.


In Pakistan, 2.3 million Afghans will cost UNHCR dollars 51.5 millions next
year. Most of them have been in camps since 1980. Another 1.8 million Afghans in
Iran will cost dollars 11.3 millions, and 7,500 in India will cost dollars 3.5
millions. Nowhere is a political solution which would allow most of these
refugees to go home more urgent.

Mr Hocke's in-depth knowledge will be particularly welcome in countries like
Somalia where there are said to be 700,000 refugees from Ethiopia in camps. Yet
the Ethiopians say 300,000 have gone home. Others say that most of the people in
the camps is Somalia are now actually poor Somalis and that the UNHCR will be
paying dollars 23 million in 1986 for what is largely a relief operation for
Somalia's own drought victims.

So, these three programmes alone will cost dollars 143 million in 1986, 53 per
cent of a total budget of dollars 270 million for UNHCR's work in all countries
of the world.

A second major area for Mr Hocke to tackle, if he is to maintain the credibility
of his new office, is that of double standards. In 1984 the US paid dollars 112
million to UNHCR's budget, EEC countries dollars 99 million and Japan dollars 43
million. These governments are happy for UNHCR to turn a blind eye to the fact
that Afghan refugee camps in Pakistan make convenient bases for the families of
guerrillas fighting the Russian troops in their home country. But any suggestion
that the camps for 20,000 Salvadoreans in Honduras might be fulfilling a similar
function produces urgent pressure for the camps to be moved.

During 1985 UNHCR clearly told several European governments that they must not
force Tamil refugees back to Sri Lanka but made no protest at continuing US
expulsions of Salvadoreans and Haitians. Mr Hocke was the US candidate for his
new job. He will have to show the rest of the world quickly that he is not their
puppet, and he will have to remind Mr Reagan that UNHCR's mandate is worldwide.

European governments, throroughly miffed at the UN Secretary-General for
imposing Mr Hocke on them, will be mollified if the new man can make progress in
what for them is now UNHCR's major task: how to impose some order on the arrival
of refugees from Third World countries seeking asylum in Western Europe.
European governments believe they are being much more generous than their
critics give them credit for.

All this comes at a time when public opinion demands severe restrictions on the
rights even of their own citizens or permanent residents to bring their close
relatives from abroad to live with them. European governments are forced to
accept these new refugees because there is no effective help for them in their
own parts of the world.

Palestinian migrant workers are being laid off in several Middle East countries
as the oil boom winds down. They have no homeland to return to. There are no
programmes anywhere in Africa which cater for city dwellers from Ghana or Zaire
who find themselves out of favour with the present regimes in Accra or Kinshasa.

The UNHCR needs to recognise that European governments are not being
unreasonable in asking for concerted international action to provide help for
these refugees in the regions where they come from. This would allow Europe to
respond with greater humanity to those refugees who do indeed have established
links with European countries: students from Iran whom the Khomeini regime
believes have been polluted by decadent Western society; Tamils whose close
family members are established residents in Europe; Ugandan students at Europe's
universities whose home villages have been destroyed in the civil war.

Mr Hocke inherits an organisation which has no money and where staff morale is
low. Governments and his staff will give him the usual 100 days in which to work
miracles. He cannot possibly achieve anything substantive in that time. But if
he has demonstrated by then a willingness and ability to confront these three
major problems and to tackle them with imagination and enthusiasm, then the
money will flow in and the staff will warm to him.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              847 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            November 4 1985, Monday

Unending flow of boat people prompts protest by Jakarta / Indonesia protests
growing number of Vietnamese refugees

BYLINE: From PAUL ROUTLEDGE

SECTION: Issue 62286.

LENGTH: 533 words

DATELINE: JAKARTA


The largely forgotten boat people of Vietnam are still fleeing the 10-year-old
commun-ist regime at the rate of more than 1,000 a month.

Guided by the currents and an oil-platform flare in the South China Sea, many
are heading for Indonesia, and the influx is straining relations between Jakarta
and Hanoi.


As the monsoons abate, more and more boats are leaving Ho Chi Minh City,
formerly Saigon. Their uncertain and dangerous journey can cost dollars 2,000 (
pounds 1,000) a head.

Indonesia is to protest to Vietnam later this month, that the exodus has been
turned into a commercial migration business, and that Hanoi is not doing enough
to stem the flow.

The United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) which maintained a camp
for more than 9,000 boat people on Galang Island in the Riau archipelago, is
compelled to accept the newcomers even though it has suffered a 25 per cent cut
in budget because of the extra call on its funds for Africa.

The UN agency is also having trouble finding third countries to take the
refugees, particularly the elderly and disabled. About 5 per cent of the camp
inhabitants have been there for more than two years.

There is more than a suspicion on the Indonesian side that some lower-level
officials in Vietnam are collaborating with the traffickers in this human trade.

'These new boat people are not pure refugees', one government source said. 'The
question of repatriation is something we would like to take up with Vietnam.'

UNHCR takes a more generous view of the plight of the boat people, arguing that
life in their native country must be unpleasant, even dangerous.

However, the agency admits that it is getting harder to resettle the refugees in
the West, where most want to go. The United States, Australia and Canada have
taken 75 per cent of the 89,000 refugees processed through the Indonesian centre
since 1979.

Britain has taken only 83. Recent requests for more help was rebuffed on the
ground that resettling the thousands of boat people in Hong Kong is more
important.

The refugees' plight is likely to become more, rather than less, acute. Malaysia
has announced its intention to close the Bidong Island centre. Singapore takes
few, and only on the strictest understanding of resettlement. Indonesia already
takes about a third, and this proportion seems certain to grow while the
military-backed Government becomes more prone to 'compassion fatigue'.

The UNHCR sees the exodus as 'an unabated outflow' and fears that, unless it is
stopped at the root. President Suharto's Administration will start to show
exasperation. 'Compassion is wearing thin. It is now 10 years since the fall of
Saigon.'

While the problem gets bigger, the agency's budget has been substantially cut
because of the enormous cost of looking after famine refugees in Africa.

The boat people are being put on a cheaper diet, with eggs substituting for
fish. Only essential repairs are being carried out in the makeshift town on the
previously uninhabited Galang Island, which served as a processing centre for
the repatriation of Japanese soldiers from South-East Asia at the end of the
Second World War.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1985 Times Newspapers Limited


                              848 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                  September 18, 1985, Wednesday, Final Edition

Shultz Warns of Cuts In Refugee Admissions

BYLINE: By I. Rajeswary, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: First Section; A4

LENGTH: 396 words


Secretary of State George P. Shultz warned Congress yesterday that the United
States would have to drastically reduce refugee admissions for the next fiscal
year if Congress sharply reduces the administration's $338 million budget
request.

Shultz also said he would establish a new panel to review refugee operations in
Southeast Asia. Department officials said they believed it was time for a fresh
look at the issue. Shultz is expected to announce details of the panel soon.

Testifying at the annual refugee consultation meeting before a Senate Judiciary
subcommittee, Shultz said the president proposes a ceiling of 70,000 refugee
admissions to the United States for the coming fiscal year, including a ceiling
of 3,000 for Latin America and the Caribbean "in the hope that Cuba will end its
suspension of the U.S.-Cuban Migration Agreement of last December."

He said there will be a separate ceiling for admissions under the United Nations
High Commission for Refugees Orderly Departure Program from Vietnam (ODP). The
purpose is to reassure ASEAN countries (members of the Association of Southeast
Asian Nations) that an expanding ODP will not mean a decrease in resettlement
from first asylum camps and to send a clear signal to Hanoi that the U.S. is
prepared "to make good on its offer to accept a large number of Amerasians and
reeducation camp prisoners."

Since 1975, the United States has taken 125,000 Cambodian refugees. Shultz said
this year the Vietnamese released almost 4,000 Amerasian children and family
members compared with 2,200 last year. "The Vietnamese failed to reach our goal
of 5,000 for the first year," he said.

Shultz said the United States will be meeting with Vietnamese representatives in
Geneva next month. "We will be seeking agreement by Vietnam to improvements in
the operation of the ODP which will enable more Amerasian children and other
persons of special humanitarian concern to the United States to leave Vietnam,
via this safe and humane route."

Robert Funseth, the department's senior deputy assistant secretary will once
again lead the U.S. delegation this year.

Responding to questions, Shultz said the Reagan administration definitely plans
to go ahead with a ban on the import of South Africa's krugerrand gold coins. He
said the U.S. was in the process of "notification and consultation" prior to the
ban.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Picture, George P. Shultz . . . testifies against budget cut.

                       Copyright 1985 The Washington Post


                              849 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 23, 1985

Victims of America's persecution complex / The US sanctuary movement for Central
American refugees

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WHITE

LENGTH: 1131 words


Seated in her cluttered office at the Peace Resource Centre on Milpas Street,
Shelly Sherman represents another face of Santa Barbara, quite distinct from the
beautiful California seaside resort which has become the Western retreat of the
President.

Sherman, 33, is an activist in the local Unitarian church and one of those
instrumental in getting the 800-strong congregation to vote itself into becoming
a 'sanctuary congregation' - one of 250 throughout the United States, including
five in this city - which are actively offering food and shelter to illegal
immigrants fleeing from political persecution and civil war in Central America.


Most come from El Salvador and, to a far lesser extent, from Guatemala -
anything between 300,000 and a half million of them, mostly concentrated in the
Southwest and especially in and around Los Angeles 100 miles to the south. Where
they have come from and why they have come is central to the history of the
sanctuary movement which has emerged as a loose coalition of churches, backed by
statements from 2,000 more, out of small beginnings at the Southside
Presbyterian Church in Tucson, Arizona in 1982.

The Reagan administration has refused to grant political asylum to all but a
handful of the refugees on the grounds that, as individuals, they do not have
the 'well-founded fear of persecution' necessary to qualify them under the 1980
Refugee Act United States supports the regimes in El Salvador and Guatemala. To
say that these regimes are not upholding human rights would be to admit that US
policy there is bankrupt.'

Not everyone in the sanctuary movement would go that far (the Unitarians are a
socially radical church), but the movement has gained support across the
political and religious spectrum, conservative Republicans and anti-abortion
campaigners, as well as Catholics, Jews, Episcopalians and left-wing Democrats,
are united in support of the proposition that the US is not playing fair to the
El Salvadorans.

The administration, in the shape of Assistant Secretary of State for Latin
America, Elliott Abrams, insist that most refugees, like the other millions from
Mexico and beyond who have swarmed towards the Rio Grande in recent years, are
economic immigrants looking for a better life. Muddling the issue with the
long-standing debate about how to control the border (the influx figures are
strongly disputed in some quarters), it says that to admit them would be to open
the floodgates. It has expelled 35,000 Salvadorans since 1980.

In response to renewed warnings from the sanctuary movement this week - that the
influx is political and increasing - the State Department said that the UN
Convention accepted that 'general conditions of civil unrest .. are not grounds
for granting asylum. Most Salvadorans in the US who file for asylum, by their
own admission, state that they've come to this country because they want to
work, because of social unrest and poverty. And therefore they have limited
opportunity to do these things in El Salvador.'

Official research - though not the American Civil Liberties Union - claims that
very few deportees have later been killed or kidnapped.

The figures tell a more complex story. The State Department says that 328
Salvadorans were admitted under the policy last year, but it does not say that
13,045 were denied asylum. More significantly, those fleeing from countries with
whom the US has poor relations - Cuba, Nicaragua, the Soviet bloc -did notably
better, 52,000 from Vietnam, 11,000 or 49 per cent of applicants from the Soviet
bloc, 5,200 from the Near East (Iran), even 2,700 from Africa. But only a few
hundred were admitted from the whole of Latin America, 2.5 per cent of
applicants in the case of El Salvador. Now that relations with Peking are good,
92 per cent of Chinese applicants are being rejected too - to the chagrin of
American anti-Communist lobbyists as well as the American Civil Liberties Union,
which complains of double standards.

It was this selective policy which sparked off the sanctuary movement, which
draws its religious inspiration from biblical teaching and its political one
from America's own traditions-the 'freedom road' network run by anti-slavery
activists before the Civil War to help runaway slaves escape from the South to
free states. More recent memories are of helping opponents of the Vietnam war
escape the draft by going to Canada.

Today the target of churches like the Unitarians, Quakers, Presbyterians, B'nai
Brith (the Jewish civil rights group) and others in cities like Santa Barbara is
either Canada - where refugee policy is more relaxed - or providing breathing
space food, shelter and sometimes publicity, for those refugees who feel they
have nothing to lose by going public with their case.

In practice, says Shelly Sherman, whose own job is with a legal firm dealing
with conventional immigration cases, this means housing families or individuals
for two or three weeks in Churches or in private houses. She has heard harrowing
stories of atrocity and murder in El Salvador's civil war.

Sanctuary workers acknowledge that only desperate or particularly vulnerable
refugees go public. Like the ordinary illegal immigrants, whose cheap labour
sustains California's prosperity, most prefer to slip into the anonymous safety
of Hispanic families and friends in Los Angeles county. Their role is largely
symbolic in making a stand and working to shift public opinion.

In 1980, Congress tried to regularise its asylum policy with the Refugee Act.
That allows for temporary refugee status, known as extended voluntary departure,
the more liberal use of which would please many activists. Congress has passed a
non-binding resolution to that effect which the administration has ignored. Next
month a stop-gap measure, the Moakley-Deconcini Bill, which would suspend
Salvadoran deportations for two years, reaches the Senate floor. The State
Department is already lobbying against it.

Such legislation runs into anxiety about the flood of Central Americans simply
seeking work here. Yet again, efforts are being made to curb the flood by
imposing penalties on US employers who hire illegal workers, an approach widely
regarded as ineffectual and arbitrary. At the ACLU, Carol Wolchok thinks control
would be more effectively achieved by removing the incentive to hire: the
enforcement of minimum wages and conditions, 'That would be a better use of the
energy and resources,' she says.

In the present climate it seems unlikely. Santa Barbara may have been founded by
the Spaniards in 1782 and be 25 per cent Spanish-American. But, as elsewhere in
California, its tourist hotels and restaurants thrive by the labour of cheap and
sometimes illegal workers.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              850 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 15, 1985, Thursday, Final Edition

Refugee Agency Faces Curb;
D.C. Agency Is Prohibited From Aiding Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By Laurel E. Miller, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: District Weekly; DC1

LENGTH: 888 words


The District's Office of Refugee Resettlement spends more than$2 million a year
in federal funds to help about 500 refugees, mostly from Indochina and Ethiopia,
find jobs, housing and health services.

The office is prohibited, however, from helping the thousands of illegal
immigrants who are streaming into the city each year from war-torn countries in
Central America, because the U.S. government does not consider them refugees.

"My office would not exist if it weren't for federal funds," said Wallace W.
Lumpkin, director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement. "I can have all the
sympathy as an individual, but I cannot use my funds here to help undocumented
refugees."

Lumpkin added: "We assist anyone who the federal government designates as a
refugee, or who has refugee status. If they come from El Salvador, chances are
they don't have that [refugee status] at all."

The federal government's definition of a refugee is one who flees his or her
homeland out of fear of persecution because of race, religion, nationality,
membership in a particular social group, or political opinion.

The government has set quotas on the number of refugees who may enter the U.S.
legally each year: about 50,000 from Indochina, 19,000 from Eastern European
countries and 3,500 from Africa, according to Lumpkin.

The number of legal refugees entering the United States has been dropping in
recent years and that decline is reflected in the decreasing number of new
arrivals served by the District's refugee office.

Meanwhile, the number of illegal "refugees" in the city, mostly from El
Salvador, has been increasing and is estimated to range from 50,000 to 80,000
people, according to federal and local agencies.

"Basically, there is nobody serving [the illegal refugees] and they are
frightened to use what services there are," said the Rev. Harold Bradley, head
of Georgetown University's Center for Immigration Policy and Refugee Assistance.

"The refugees that ORR is serving are the refugees that it is to the political
advantage of the United States to serve," he said. "We're taking care of those
refugees for foreign policy reasons, and that's why you have the State
Department involved in resettling those people."

About 95 percent of the legal refugees who come to the District seek assistance
from the refugee office, Lumpkin said. They are brought here from refugee camps
by volunteer agencies under contract with the State Department. Most speak no
English and many are illiterate in their own languages, he said.

These refugees immediately are eligible to receive welfare payments for up to 18
months, plus food stamps, Medicaid and job training.

Many of these refugees are helped by the D.C. Refugee Service Center, a project
of the Associated Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of Washington. At the
center, which is fully funded by the city, the refugees receive such help as job
placement and employment counseling, English classes, and family and personal
counseling.

Lumpkin and his two-member staff, who are part of the city's Department of Human
Services, give most of the office's $2 million budget to private agencies such
as the Refugee Service Center, which actually provide the services to the
refugees.

Undocumented aliens are ineligible for any services that receive federal
funding.

The Andromeda Hispano Mental Health Center, for example, receives a $30,000
annual grant from the refugee office to run a counseling program for Cuban
refugees. None of that money goes to serve the Central Americans who make up
about 75 percent of the center's clientele, said Dr. Ricardo Galbis, Andromeda's
executive director.

"They [the illegal immigrants] are paranoid to begin with," said Galbis. "They
feel unsure of themselves. They have no rights: no medical rights, no legal
rights. [But] they work hard, they're very hard-working people.

"There is a need for more focus on the health needs of the Hispanic population.
They're increasing geometrically. Whether they're legal or not, they're living
here."

Kathy Schrader, director of the Refugee Service Center, said, "It's frustrating
for us because we are caught in the middle and sometimes we have a job we can't
fill but there's nothing we can do" because the center cannot offer the job to
an illegal refugee. The center serves about 2,000 legal refugees a year,
Schrader said.

She said that the number of new cases her center handles each year has dropped
to about 360, almost half the number of persons the center helped in 1981, its
first year of operation.

When illegal immigrants visit the center they are referred to one of the several
other private social service agencies that help Hispanics.

"The numbers [of illegals] really are overwhelming the ability of the agencies
to provide," said Grant Prillaman, director of the Woodrow Wilson International
Center, which helps the illegal immigrants get jobs and learn English.

Other private agencies that receive funds from Lumpkin's office include the
Ethiopian Community Center and the Indochinese Community Center.

"We offer a variety of services all geared toward one thing, to make that
refugee self-sufficient as quickly as possible," Lumpkin said. "It's all geared
to moving the refugees toward the way Americans live and mainstreaming them into
society."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1985 The Washington Post


                              851 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             July 27, 1985 Saturday

Egypt, U.S. remain split   over contest for UN post

BYLINE: JANE FRIEDMAN; OBS

LENGTH: 590 words

DATELINE: Cairo EGYPT


By  JANE FRIEDMAN
                            Observer News Service
    CAIRO  - The contest for the post of UN High Commissioner of Refugees
 has created strained feelings between Egypt and the United States.

Butros Ghali, 62, State Minister for Foreign Affairs, is Egypt's
 nominee. He is a prominent Egyptian intellectual who played an important
 role in the peace process with Israel and he had expected the United
 States to support him. Instead, Washington is backing a Swiss official of
 the International Committee of the Red Cross, Jean-Pierre Hocke.

The new high commissioner will be chosen in December when the three-
 year term expires. Currently the post is held by a former Danish prime
 minister, Poul Hartling.

The U.S. rebuff comes as a blow to the veteran Egyptian diplomat, who
 studied law and politics in France before being drafted by the late
 president Anwar Sadat. He also headed the respected Centre for Political
 and Strategic Studies in Cairo.

Washington's rejection is particularly hard for Mr. Ghali at this point
 in his career. As a Copt, or Egyptian Christian, future mobility at
 Egypt's Foreign Ministry is limited. An elegant man with a global vision,
 he had hoped to further his career by assuming the refugee post. If he
 does not get the job, Mr. Ghali says he will retire from the foreign
 service shortly.

Sitting in his French-style office in the Foreign Ministry, Mr. Ghali
 wondered out loud about U.S. friendship for Egypt and whether Washington
 really trusts the Egyptians.
    'The U.S. says it wants someone under its domination,' he said.
 'They want a technocrat and not a politician, but it's time that somebody
 from this part of the world assumed responsibility for refugees.'
    The commission was formed in 1951 to take care of all refugees in the
 Middle East.

Today, the HCR protects and shelters almost 10 million refugees
 worldwide. The largest group are Afghans living in Pakistan. Others are in
 the Horn of Africa and in southern Africa and there are also large numbers
 in Central America.

The annual budget of the commission is about $400-million. Most is
 contributed by the United States, the European Community and Japan. The
 high commissioner has usually been chosen by consensus and named by the UN
 Secretary- General. Representatives from donor countries and neutral
 European countries have traditionally filled the post.

Mr. Ghali is not taking the U.S. rebuff lightly; 1985 may well be the
 first time the job of high commissioner is openly contested. Others in the
 running are former Dutch foreign minster Max van der Stoel, Sweden's
 Defence Minister Anders Thunborg and Norway's Ambassador to the UN, Tom
 Braalsen.

Mr. Ghali says when Egypt submitted his name in January, 1985, the
 United States indicated it would back the choice. The backing was not
 formal, he said, but came through messages from State Department
 officials. Then, two months ago, the Swiss proposed Mr. Hocke. Mr. Ghali
 implies the United States put the idea to the Swiss. The United States
 denies it.

Despite his distinguished career, Mr. Ghali was never promoted to the  actual
job of foreign minister, apparently because he is a Copt. Now that  Egypt has an
active foreign minister, Esmat Abdel Meguid, Mr. Ghali wields  less influence.
He has assumed responsibility for Egypt's relations with  Africa.     'After
eight years, I have to change,' he said. 'I want the high  commission to be not
just machinery to support the refugees, but to solve  the problem of the
refugees, a solution in depth. And that's a very heavy  job.'

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1985 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              852 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 24, 1984

Reagan flies in suppplies / US Air Force ordered to fly relief supplies to
Ethiopians

BYLINE: From ALEX BRUMMER

LENGTH: 253 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Reagan has ordered US Air Force planes to fly relief supplies to
refugees streaming into the Sudan from Ethiopia amid growing concern about the
spread of famine in Africa.

The first US Air Force plane, a C-130 transport, flew from an Agency for
International Development (AID) storage depot in West Germany to the Sudanese
city of Kassala yesterday.


It was carrying a cargo of portable water tanks, large medical tents and more
than 5,000 blankets for the tens of thousands of Ethiopian refugees who have
crossed into the south-eastern Sudan in search of water and food.

The swift White House response to the refugee problem in Sudan followed an
appeal by the United Nations Commissioner for Refugees on Thursday night.
President Reagan was immediately briefed by the director of AID, America's
foreign aid agency, Mr Peter McPherson, and ordered the use or American military
planes for the first time since the Ethiopia crisis emerged.

According to senior American foreign aid officials, President Reagan is taking a
personal interest in relief operations in Africa and has asked the agency to
keep him continuously informed. AID has told the White House that it fears the
Ethiopia famine could spread to as many as six other African countries.

Although AID has spent almost all its dollars 150 million contingency fund for
famine relief in the first two months of the 1985 financial year, it has begun
temporarily to divert funds from other programmes to meet African demands.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited


                              853 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                          September 27, 1984 Thursday

Church council   gives $200,000   to black groups

BYLINE: REUT

LENGTH: 324 words

DATELINE: Geneva SWITZERLAND


GENEVA  (Reuter) - The World Council of Churches said yesterday it had
 granted $200,000 this year to three black guerrilla and political groups
 fighting South African white-minority rule.

The South-West Africa People's Organization, fighting for the
 independence of South African- ruled Namibia, received $100,000 from the
 council's controversial special fund to combat racism.

The fund is financed by contributions from some of the council's 303
 Protestant, Anglican, Orthodox and other non-Catholic member churches, and
 from governments and anti-racist organizations.

The Geneva-based WCC also gave a grant of $70,000 to the African
 National Congress, the main black guerrilla movement fighting white rule
 in South Africa.

The Pan Africanist Congress received $30,000 for information work,
 assistance to refugees and aid to PAC members released from prison or
 facing political trials.

The grant to SWAPO is to finance legal and humanitarian aid and
 publicity, and the grant to the ANC will assist agricultural and
 vocational training projects for refugees in camps in Zambia, the council
 said.

Another $200,000 was shared among 40 anti- racist groups in West
 Europe, the United States, Canada, Japan, Australia, the Philippines, New
 Caledonia and Papua New Guinea. Grants ranged from $1,500 to $10,000.

Grants from the fund, instituted in 1969, are intended for
 humanitarian, social, health, educational and cultural purposes.

WCC general secretary Philip Potter acknowledged at a news conference
 that the fund 'has been the cause of an enormous amount of debate and
 controversy all over the world.'
    But he added: 'It has never been proved that those who have received
 these gifts have used them for any purpose other than those for which they
 have been given.'
    The 1984 grants were approved at a session of the WCC's central
 committee in July but no details were not announced until yesterday to
 allow member churches to be informed officially.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1984 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              854 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                          September 20, 1984 Thursday

Hostility toward refugees   not justified, official says

BYLINE: VICTOR MALAREK; GAM

LENGTH: 450 words

DATELINE: Geneva SWITZERLAND


By  VICTOR MALAREK
                           Globe and Mail Reporter
    GENEVA  - Moves by many industrialized nations to cut refugee quotas
 drastically are threatening international efforts to solve the plight of
 millions of people stuck in refugee camps throughout the world.

The emergence of xenophobic trends is destroying international
 mechanisms set up to handle the refugee question, according to Poul
 Hartling, high commissioner for the United Nations High Commission for
 Refugees.

Mr. Hartling attributes this growing fear of foreigners to "a strong,
 vocal minority who say 'We don't like foreigners. We don't like people of
 another race, color or religion.' " The time has come, he stressed, to
 send up a warning signal before the special position of refugees is
 irreparably undermined.

Refugees are blamed for economic ills plaguing Western Europe, Mr.
 Harling said. They are seen as a major link in high unemployment, as a
 burden on hard-pressed welfare programs and a significant factor in the
 increase of crime.

But the facts paint a different picture. "Very few refugees abuse the
 hospitality of their host country," he said, citing a study by the U.S.
 Church World Service showing that the vast majority of refugees are
 industrious, and when given the opportunity they quickly become productive
 members of society.

Moreover, UNHRC figures show that the fear of a never-ending flow of
 refugees is unfounded, that in 20 European countries the average
 proportion of refugees in the population is .14 per cent.

The ideal solution for the refugee problem is voluntary repatriation,
 Mr. Hartling said. "If you open the heart of the refugee anywhere in the
 world, in 95 per cent of the cases you will find that he would want to go
 back home." But in most circumstances, repatriation is all but impossible.

Another preferred solution is acceptance in a neighboring country,
 where resettlement and integration are usually easier, he said.
 Resettlement in a distant land is the least preferred solution, yet for
 hundreds of thousands of refugees it represents the only chance to break
 out of the camps and get on with life.

Almost 115,000 refugees, three-quarters of them from Southeast Asia,
 were resettled in 1983. Canada, the United States and Australia received
 the largest portion. However, largely because of worldwide economic
 difficulties, resettlement opportunities are becoming harder and harder to
 secure.

Today there are more than 11 million refugees throughout the world, of
 whom 7.8 million live in camps, largely in Africa, South Asia and the
 Middle East. For as many as a million of these resettlement is urgently
 needed, Mr. Hartling said. Another 2.7 million have been settled or
 resettled.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1984 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              855 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                              June 1, 1984 Friday

A world of refugees

BYLINE: GAM

LENGTH: 572 words


The Immigration Department prides itself on having honed refugee policy to
 a fine art. That policy keeps open two avenues for foreign exiles to win
 residency in Canada. The first, asylum, involves exiles who arrive without
 official okay on Canada's shores and claim refugee status under the Geneva
 Convention. If they can convince Canadian authorities of "a well-founded
 fear of persecution" in their homeland, they are landed here.

The second avenue, resettlement, involves an overseas selection process
 in which Canadian immigration officers apply relaxed immigration criteria
 to the flotsam of four continents, enabling exiles to trade in the rations
 of the refugee camp for a fresh start in Canada. It is this avenue which
 provides the great majority of Canadian refugees.

But resettlement needs serious rethinking. Raphael Girard, a senior
 Immigration official, told a recent conference on refugees that Ottawa
 planned to sponsor 10,000 refugees from around the world for resettlement
 in 1983, but was able to find and choose fewer than 9,000. "We had a
 shortfall of 10 per cent last year," he said. "Our immigration program
 didn't take very well."
    That dismal take invites a double take. How, in a world awash wth an
 estimated 10 million refugees, could Canada fail to fill its quota?
 Moreover, the shortfall is not merely 10 per cent, as Mr. Girard
 indicated, but 25 per cent. Ottawa originally set aside, in addition to
 10,000 slots allocated by specific geographic areas, an extra 2,000 slots
 for which funds were to be earmarked as the need arose.

There is no question that the need existed. The quota of 2,000 for
 Latin America was filled by the end of August, yet none of the 2,000
 unallocated slots was funded. Meanwhile, the quotas set for Africa and the
 Middle East were allowed to go begging. Ottawa was able to fill only 651
 of the 1,000 places reserved for Africa and only 294 of the 800 reserved
 for the Middle East.

The difficulty in finding eligible Africans was real enough, because
 the Organization of African Unity opposes resettlement outside the
 continent except in the case of politically sensitive individuals. But why
 was it not possible to identify eligibles for the Middle East quota? Many
 of the Palestinians who live a precarious existence in the camps of
 Lebanon would no doubt prefer a Canadian winter to a Phalangist "open
 season."
    When Immigration discovered, late in 1983, that it would not fill its
 quotas for Africa and the Middle East, it should have reallocated those
 quotas to other areas of high demand. The logical candidate was Central
 America, where Canada boasts of being the only one of the traditional
 resettlement countries (the United States, Australia) which is actually
 resettling exiles. Another worthy candidate was Indochina. The rate at
 which Vietnamese boat people are resettled from the Hong Kong refugee
 camps has fallen behind the rate at which new ones arrive there.

The deplorable result of this Immigration Department inertia was not
 only that Canada last year admitted one-quarter fewer Government-sponsored
 refugees than it planned, but that it accepted 2,000 fewer than it had
 actually landed the year before. Even in a period of high unemployment,
 these "shortfalls" are unjustifiable. Yet Canadian refugee groups have
 been oddly quiescent. Canadians may no longer believe that "none is too
 many," but they are unduly complacent if they assume that 9,000 is enough.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1984 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              856 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             July 19, 1983 Tuesday

CANADA HAS A CASE   OF 'COMPASSION FATIGUE'   The search   for a formula   to
solve   refugee plight

BYLINE: SHELDON GORDON; GAM

LENGTH: 1220 words


BY  SHELDON GORDON
    Mr. Gordon is an editorial writer for The Globe and Mail.

THE WORLD is awash with refugees. Their number is estimated at 12  million, and
that includes only those who, in fleeing persecution, war or  economic
exploitation, have crossed a national border. Most live in camps,  subsisting on
rations of despair. They are stateless people in a world  where to be stateless
is the ultimate form of powerlessness. They are the  uprooted of four continents
who yearn to make their way eventually to a  fifth: our own.

As Canadian Immigration Minister Lloyd Axworthy recently warned, the
 refugee crisis could erupt beyond the capacity of the existing
 international system and become a major source of global instability. That
 danger looms not only because the numbers of stateless people are huge,
 but because two-thirds of them are concentrated in the Third World. In
 Pakistan alone, there are 3.5 million refugees from Afghanistan. In
 Africa, there are two million refugees.

A heavy influx into a developing country may depress the living
 standards of its already impoverished domestic population. (Pakistan must
 spend $270-million a year to care for its Afghan guests, and their
 presence has inflated commodity and real estate prices, while pushing down
 wages, in the Northwest Frontier Province.) The arrival of refugees may
 upset a delicate balance between rival ethnic groups in the host country.
 And their presence often creates border tensions between their home state
 and the receiving state.

If, as in the case of the Palestinians, decades pass without the
 refugees being voluntarily repatriated to their homeland, integrated into
 the country of first asylum or resettled in third countries, they may
 become embittered, desperate camp-dwellers, many of whom strike back at
 the international community which has ignored them.

In the aftermath of the Second World War, the United Nations set up a
 "safety net" for refugees, including the High Commissioner for Refugees
 (UNHCR) and the UN Convention on refugees. But this regime, created with
 the upheavals of Europe in mind, is inadequate to the current
 circumstances.

One problem is the Refugee Convention, which requires signatory states
 not to deport illegal aliens to their homeland if, in claiming the right
 of asylum, they are able to demonstrate "a well-founded fear of
 persecution" based on ethnic, religious or political reasons. These narrow
 criteria for asylum exclude people fleeing war or economic oppression -
 who account for most of the world's refugees.

In the United States, immigration authorities are denying refugee
 status to thousands of Salvadoreans, who are considered illegal "economic
 migrants". Only a handful have obtained asylum, and a UNHCR study has
 rapped U.S. Immigration for evicting even Salvadoreans who fit the narrow
 Convention definition of a refugee. To make matters worse, the United
 States deports directly to El Salvador, making it the only country in
 North America to return Salvadoreans to their war-torn homeland. (Canada
 has come to the rescue of 175 Salvadoreans the United States has earmarked
 for deportation.)
    Other countries, such as Mexico, Honduras and Thailand, are providing
 sanctuary for tens of thousands of refugees who do not meet the Convention
 definition. But because these countries are not signatories of the
 Convention, they do so only grudgingly. The UNHCR, which co-ordinates the
 provision of food, shelter and medicine in refugee camps, has to operate
 on sufferance there. The Honduran Government pressured the UNHCR staff
 into withholding food and medical supplies from refugees who were
 resisting the state's efforts to relocate them away from the border.

Although the UN is charged with assuring humane treatment for refugees,
 it has, paradoxically, no authority to stop military attacks on refugee
 camps. As a result, Kampucheans in Thai border camps, Salvadoreans in
 Honduras, Guatemalans in Mexico and Palestinians in Lebanon have all been
 targets of attack.

The Canadian Government has been sensitive to these failings in the
 international system. Ottawa co-sponsored a UN study by Prince Sadruddin
 Aga Khan on the role of human rights violations in creating mass exoduses.
 It tried, unsuccessfully, to have the UNHCR's staff increased to afford
 greater protection to refugees, and recently agreed to accept a few
 hundred released Salvadorean prisoners who, in the absence of
 resettlement, would be vulnerable to attack.

But when it comes to accepting larger numbers of the world's homeless,
 Canada, like the other major resettlement countries - the United States
 and Australia - is suffering from what refugee experts call "compassion
 fatigue". Since the Second World War, Canada has resettled 350,000
 refugees, a creditable figure for a nation which had previously insisted
 "none is too many". This year, however, the quota for Government-sponsored
 refugees has been reduced to 12,000 from 14,000 in 1982.

The reduction includes a drop in the intake of Indochinese refugees,
 even though the number of "boat people" in the Thai camps has not
 diminished since 1981; (and even though the Government of Thailand
 threatens to spurn new arrivals unless there is more resettlement of
 existing camp-dwellers). As for Kampuchean refugees, Ottawa opposes even
 the principle of their resettlement, though the UNHCR has concluded that
 voluntary repatriation, the ideal solution, is a forlorn hope because of
 the continuing war.

Domestic unemployment obviously inhibits Ottawa from accepting many
 more refugees. But Canada could use its influence as a major resettlement
 country - and as the UNHCR's fourth-largest donor - to press for
 multilateral initiatives. Among them:
    (1) Establishment of an early warning system to alert the international
 community to potential mass exoduses, so pressure can be brought to bear
 to improve conditions, or at least so plans can be made to handle the
 outflow.
    (2) Convening a world conference (in Canada, perhaps?) on Indochinese
 refugees to impart new momentum to resettlement efforts, especially
 through private sponsorship.
    (3) Provision of development assistance to encourage refugee
 resettlement within the Third World. This would be possible in developing
 countries which do not suffer from severe population pressures and where
 the integration of refugees might provide skills needed by the local
 economy to increase the living standard of the domestic population.

This was the idea behind the Durable Solutions Fund, which was
 proposed, but never implemented, by the UNHCR in 1979-80. The fund would
 have identified, and channelled foreign aid to, developing countries not
 averse to refugees but lacking infrastructure and money to integrate them
 successfully.

Canada did not support the fund proposal, viewing a development
 assistance role as beyond the UNHCR's function. But an institutional
 alternative could be found. If international aid to link resettlement with
 development is desirable, it could be administered through regional
 organizations such as the Organization of American States or the
 Organization of African Unity.

What is vital, however, is a systematic attempt to provide long-term
 solutions - the opportunity for a productive life and not merely the limbo
 of the refugee camp - for the wreck and flotsam of humanity.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1983 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              857 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 18, 1983, Friday, Final Edition

Balancing the 'Brain Drain'
An Illiterate Ethiopian Gets Ready for St. Louis

BYLINE: By David B. Ottaway, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: First Section; General News; A30

LENGTH: 612 words

DATELINE: GEDAREF, Sudan


Getchew Garad seems an unlikely candidate to become a resident of St. Louis. But
that is where he's headed in several months, although he doesn't know it yet.

Getchew is illiterate even in his own Amharic language. He is a seasonal farm
worker turned nickel-and-dime trader and lives with his wife, Enanu, their baby
and assorted chickens in a traditional Ethiopian tukal, a round thatched hut
with a dirt floor.

America is as far away as the moon from the life he has known eking out a meager
existence in the rugged and often drought-plagued Ethiopian highlands.

But Getchew, 27, has one thing going for him. He is a "political refugee" from
the revolutionary turmoil in Ethiopia, and that has earned him a ticket to the
United States--thanks to a new resettlement program for a few Africans under the
1980 Refugee Act.

Ethiopians reportedly account for two-thirds of all those now being chosen for
the 3,000 to 3,500 annual quota of refugees from Africa. Some come from centers
in Sudan, others from Somalia, Djibouti and Kenya or simply as individual
applicants at U.S. embassies.

This is because the revolution in Ethiopia, which toppled the late emperor Haile
Selassie in 1974, has created close to a million refugees--the largest group
from any African country. Of this number, 440,000 are here in eastern Sudan and
most of the others in Somalia.

So far, about 2,000 Ethiopians have been resettled in U.S. communities and
another 2,000 are waiting to go, according to Kevin Noonan, who heads the Joint
Voluntary Agency in Khartoum, the group in charge of registering candidates to
be interviewed by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The agency, funded by the State Department, works on behalf of 16 U.S. voluntary
organizations involved in helping refugees get settled.

Many of the Ethiopians who are chosen speak English, are well educated and are
highly skilled. But to avoid accusations of bias or contributing to the "brain
drain" of Africa, the immigration service also is taking some Ethiopians like
Getchew, who have no skills and neither read nor write.

Noonan and others here in Gedaref administering a four-month course in basic
English and "cultural orientation" for the Ethiopian immigrants say those with
skills and language expertise make out fine once they arrive in the United
States. But they say no study has been done yet on those who have neither.

Although no one says so for the record, there are serious reservations among
program administrators here about the wisdom of sending illiterate Ethiopian
peasants to fend for themselves in the United States.

Getchew seems to have no reservations, however, even though he still hasn't been
told where he is going in the United States. He hears from two friends who went
last year that life in America is good, "if you work," although one of them, he
says, is still without a job.

"Everything will be okay if I can find a job and learn to speak and write,"
Getchew said through an interpreter.

"I leave Sudan for security," he said. "I don't care about the difficulties so
long as I'm secure."

Getchew has forgotten most of the English he learned a few months ago, but he
remembers he has to add eight days to the Ethiopian calendar to get the right
date in the Gregorian one. His wife is just starting to speak her first words in
English.

When she finishes the orientation course in April, they will be off to the
United States. Upon arrival, they will be aided at first by the American Council
for Nationalities Services in settling in, finding a job and getting into a
school.

Then they will be on their own, like millions of other immigrants before them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Picture, Ethiopian refugee Getchew Garad stands outside his hut with
his wife, Enanu Menelik, and their baby boy. By Steve Hindy for The Washington
Post

                       Copyright 1983 The Washington Post


                              858 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            March 12, 1983 Saturday

U.S., Israeli stands denounced   at close of non-aligned summit

BYLINE: REUT

LENGTH: 563 words

DATELINE: New Delhi INDIA


NEW DELHI  (Reuter) - The non-aligned summit on its closing day condemned
 U.S. policy in the Middle East, called for a halt to the nuclear arms race
 and castigated South Africa and Israel in resolutions to be endorsed at a
 final session expected late last night.

But last-minute wrangling between Iran and Iraq delayed a final
 statement on the Persian Gulf war, a major concern at the five-day
 conference of leaders from 101 Asian, African, Latin American and European
 states.

A strong statement on the desperate plight of developing nations was
 also put up for formal approval by the summit, the Third World's chief
 political forum.

In long declarations on world trouble spots, the summit restated its
 full support for a Palestinian state, and condemned Israel for 'continued
 occupation of Palestinian and other Arab territories and for its
 persistent acts of represssion against the Palestinian people.'
    It called for a 'war crimes tribunal' to try Israel under
 international law for crimes against the Palestinian people, including
 last year's massacre of refugees in two Beirut camps.

The summit accused the United States of violating 'the commitments it
 had undertaken to guarantee the safety and security of Palestinian
 refugees,' and condemned U.S. military and political support for Israel.

It also denounced Washington for trying to impose a Middle East policy
 'prejudicial to the liberation of the occupied Arab and Palestinian
 territories, including Jerusalem.'
    Condemning South Africa for 'systematic and barbarous acts of
 oppression and discrimination,' the summit called for a United Nations
 Security Council meeting to consider action to achieve early independence
 for Namibia (South West Africa).

It accused the United States of pursuing the 'extraneous issue' of a
 withdrawal of Cuban troops from Angola, which Washington and Pretoria have
 made a condition for Namibian independence.

The summit called for the withdrawal of all foreign forces from
 Cambodia, without naming Vietnam, and urged all states in the region to
 settle their differences through talks. Vietnam, which invaded Cambodia to
 install a pro-Hanoi government in Phnom Penh in 1979, has about 180,000
 troops there.

After bitter argument, non-aligned foreign ministers decided last week
 to leave Cambodia's disputed seat in the movement vacant.

The summit declaration also avoided mentioning the Soviet Union in its
 resolution on Afghanistan, which called for a political settlement on the
 basis of withdrawal of all foreign forces and the right of refugees to
 return home safely.

The resolutions also urged Moscow and Washington to keep East-West
 disputes out of Central America, and called on the United States to adopt
 'constructive positions' in favor of peace in Nicaragua and El Salvador.

The summit demanded the immediate prohibition of the use, or threat of
 use, of nuclear weapons by the five nuclear powers - the United States,
 the Soviet Union, Britain, France and China.

It called for a freeze on the development, production, stockpiling and
 deployment of nuclear weapons, and the speedy conclusion of a
 comprehensive treaty banning ests.

Non-aligned leaders also called for immediate efforts to conclude a
 treaty banning chemical weapons, and to pursue conventional disarmament.

They said the vast amount of money being spent on arms militates
 against the introduction of a new economic order.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1983 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              859 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 15, 1982, Monday, Final Edition

Why Are We Locking Up Haitians?

BYLINE: William Raspberry

SECTION: First Section; Op-Ed; A15

LENGTH: 713 words


"Racism" is a charge that is used so offhandedly that it has lost much of its
impact.

Yet it's hard to think of another way of describing America's treatment of the
Haitian refugees. Judge Robert Carter, of the U.S. District Court in Manhattan,
came close to calling it by the right name when he ruled last Friday in favor of
eight Haitian "boat

people" who had been refused parole by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service's New York office.

"The parole results during (Charles) Sava's tenure since July 1981 as New York
district director (of the immigration service) demonstrate a gross
maldistribution of releases," the judge said.

"Of 86 Haitians whose applications he received, Sava paroled five, all pregnant
women. Of 91 non-Haitian applications, 90 were released." That record, said
Carter, shows "invidious racial- or national-origin-based discrimination."

Jesse Jackson, who in the last two weeks has discussed the problem with the
pope, with the U.S. Catholic Conference and with the State Department, says it
more plainly:

"It's racism. You look at the combination of concentration camps for Haitians
and the overt cozying up to South Africa, and the official pattern becomes
clear."

John McCarthy, executive director of the Catholic Conference's migration and
refugee service, sees the scandalous treatment of the Haitian refugees as "a
terrible disaster, a scar on our nation--the first time this sort of thing has
happened since the start of World War II, when we did it to the Japanese."

What McCarthy and the others are talking about is the incarceration--in jails,
in prisons and in squalid camps-- of some 2,000 Haitian refugees, most of them
claiming to be political refugees, a status which would lead to their asylum
here. The official U.S. line is that they are economic refugees and not entitled
to asylum.

"It's a distinction without a difference, in substance or in history," Jackson
contends. "The Poles are economic refugees. Solidarity is a labor union. Nowhere
have the Poles said that they wish to change their form of government. They
remain communists. Yet we classify them as political refugees and let them in."

McCarthy makes a similar point. "It's very difficult to buy this
economic-political distinction," he said. "These (Haitians) are desperately poor
people with no rights whatever. And there really aren't that many of them. Only
50 came in during January. Perhaps as many as 50,000 Mexicans cross the border
every day. How many of them are in jail?"

The official explanation is that the Mexicans who come here illegally are caught
only after they have gotten in and taken jobs, and that they rarely resist
deportation (though many of them quickly return). The Haitians, on the other
hand, are intercepted at the border, and, instead of returning voluntarily,
claim refugee status.

McCarthy has heard the arguments, and he dismisses them--on economic as well as
racial grounds.

"We believe the idea of keeping these refugees in hard-rock prisons is morally
wrong. These are lovely people, posing no (crime) problem at all. And it costs a
lot of money--maybe $2 million a month--to keep them locked up. That's my money
they're throwing away, and yet the administration keeps saying we have to reduce
federal expenditures."

McCarthy says he has proposed to take custody of the locked-up Haitians and let
the savings go toward developing jobs in Haiti, thereby reducing the incentive
for the life-risking boat rides to America. "We aren't new at this," he said. "
We have handled a million displacees--10,000 Southeast Asians in September
alone. We have offered, in writing, to take these refugees and find them homes
and jobs at no cost to the government. The government says it has a problem, and
we offer a solution. We'll take them off their hands."

It sounds like an offer no penny- pinching government could refuse. But McCarthy
says the only response he has had was from an immigration official who said it
was necessary to continue the present policy "as a deterrent."

"In a different context, you might say Gethsemane was a deterrent," McCarthy
said. "What they are doing is just morally offensive. I can't tell you why they
are doing it. But I don't see any white faces among the detainees."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1982 The Washington Post


                              860 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            November 3, 1981 Tuesday

Ottawa to cut back   on Asian refugees,   take more Europeans

BYLINE: THOMAS WALKOM; GAM

LENGTH: 503 words

DATELINE: Ottawa ONT


By  THOMAS WALKOM
                           Globe and Mail Reporter
     OTTAWA  - Canada plans to allow 4,000 fewer refugees from Indochina to
 enter the country next year, but it is allocating 1,000 extra spaces to
 Eastern European refugees.

In a report tabled in the Commons yesterday, Immigration Minister Lloyd
 Axworthy said Canada plans to cut back the total number of immigrants
 allowed into the country as Government-sponsored refugees from 16,000 this
 year to 14,000 in 1982.

These figures apply only to refugees who do not qualify either as
 independent or family-sponsored immigrants.

According to an External Affairs Department official, United Nations
 figures show there are approximately 10 million refugees in the world -
 20,000 of them Eastern Europeans (mainly Poles) in Austria, and 500,000
 Indochinese. Canada said it plans to accept 6,000 Government-sponsored
 refugees from Eastern Europe and 4,000 from Indochina next year.

Although the UN figures show that about 5 million displaced people are
 in Africa, Mr. Axworthy's report said that Canada plans to accept only 500
 Government-sponsored refugees from there.

Noting that there are only a "relatively small number of refugees who
 cannot be resettled on that continent," the report said that Canada must
 accept more than the 400 Africans it took this year.

As for war-torn and poverty-stricken Central America, the report said
 that Canada doubled its refugee target in 1981 "in anticipation of a
 resettlement need which has not materialized to date."
    Thus, the report said, there is no need to increase the 1981 figure of
 1,000 allocated to refugees from Latin America and the Caribbean.

UN figures show that there are about 250,000 refugees in Central and
 South America as well as the Caribbean - with about 100,000 of those from
 El Salvador, a country in the midst of a civil war.

Mr. Axworthy's report said that Canada has already accepted 14 refugees
 from El Salvador "who may be in danger and who cannot count on local
 resettlement or eventual repatriation" as part of this country's
 humanitarian efforts.

Canada also plans to accept 400 refugees from the Middle East in 1982,
 compared to none this year. The UN says there are about 1.9 million
 Palestinian refugees alone in the Middle East.

All in all, Canada will accept 30 per cent of Eastern Europe's
 refugees, .8 per cent of those in Indochina, .4 per cent of those in
 Central and South America, .02 per cent of those in the Middle East and
 .01 per cent of those in Africa.

The report noted that Canada has the highest ratio of refugees to the
 population of seven major countries studied, including the United States
 and Australia.

According to the report, Canada expects to take between 130,000 and
 135,000 immigrants next year, between 134,000 and 144,000 in 1983 and
 between 130,000 and 145,000 in 1984. About 122,000 immigrants are expected
 this year.

These figures include between 20,000 and 25,000 skilled workers a year,
 as recommended by Mr. Axworthy's own Task Force on Labor Market
 Development.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1981 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              861 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            October 6, 1981 Tuesday

Budget request is cut   for expected refugees

BYLINE: REUT

LENGTH: 198 words

DATELINE: Washington DC


WASHINGTON  (Reuter) - The Reagan Administration told Congress yesterday
 that it expected about 20 per cent fewer political refugees this year than
 previously projected and was cutting its budget request for refugee
 resettlement.

Acting State Department Refugee Affairs Co-ordinator James Purcell said
 he anticipated that only 140,000 refugees would seek resettlement, of whom
 100,000 would be from Indochina.

The Administration originally requested $553-million to resettle
 173,000 refugees, including 120,000 from Asia, 42,500 from Communist
 Eastern Europe, 5,500 from the Near East and 5,000 from Africa, Latin
 America and the Caribbean.

Mr. Purcell told the House of Representatives Foreign Affairs Committee
 the lower numbers would save $40-million out of the $553-million
 previously requested.

This cut was in line with Mr. Reagan's request for additional budget
 trimming but was not prompted by it, he said, and the new projections were
 not a quota.

He said the Administration intended to request authority from Congress
 for the original higher figures to send 'a political signal' of the U.S.
 commitment to receive refugees to countries of first asylum in Asia and to
 the Soviet Union.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1981 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              862 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             April 10, 1981 Friday

Ottawa sets $22 million   to aid African refugees

BYLINE: CP

LENGTH: 453 words

DATELINE: Geneva SWITZERLAND


GENEVA  (CP) - Declaring 'the dimension of need is compelling,' Canadian
 External Affairs Minister Mark MacGuigan said yesterday that Ottawa will
 contribute $22.4-million this year in new and previously unannounced aid
 to African refugees.

Addressing an 84-country conference convened by the United Nations to
 solicit pledges to alleviate the plight of Africa's refugee population,
 estimated as high as five million, Mr. MacGuigan said: 'African concerns
 are world concerns and therefore Canadian concerns.'
    Canada's $22.4-million package of additional assistance includes $16-m
 illion in emergency food aid for Somalia, the Sudan, Ethiopia and Uganda,
 countries where refugee problems are most acute, Mr. MacGuigan said.

The balance, $6.4-million, will be granted to programs of 'different
 international agencies, designed to respond to the highest priority
 refugee needs,' he said, noting that the contribution is 'on a one-year
 basis.' Canada expects to continue making 'significant contributions in
 coming years,' he added.

Mr. MacGuigan stressed that 'solutions (to the plight of refugees) can
 only be found in Africa, by Africans.'
    'We are in fact responding to urgent humanitarian needs. It is up to
 the African people to react to the causes.'
    For the United States, UN Ambassador Jeanne Kirkpatrick pledged $285-
 million, West Germany promised $45-million, Britain about $19.6-million,
 Denmark $10-million and the Netherlands $9.5 million.

Other early pledges included Nigeria's $3-million and $1-million from
 Egypt in medical aid. Fifty other possible donors were still to speak.

The conference started nearly two hours late after Arab countries
 objected to the presence of Israeli Ambassador Joel Barromi.

Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, big potential donors, boycoted the opening
 ceremony and along with Syria, Iraq, Algeria, Libya and Bahrein arrived
 about 90 minutes late for the afternoon session.

African delegates rejected an Arab request that Israel should either be
 barred from the conference or not allowed to speak, UN sources said.

The Israeli ambassador said his country, a contributor to UN refugee
 aid funds, would not have withdrawn if requested.

Soviet bloc countries also stayed away, apparently in line with their
 argument that Africa's refugee problems are a by-product of colonialism.

Siaka Stevens, President of Sierra Leone and chairman of the
 Organization of African Unity, urged all countries to forsake 'bickering
 and conflict' and concentrate on answering this 'SOS message' from
 Africa.

Conditions in many camps are so bad, he said, that 'death comes as a
 relief.'
    The worst refugee problems are in Somalia with an estimated 1.5
 million; Sudan, 490,000; Zaire, 400,000 and Cameroun, 266,000.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1981 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              863 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     June 14, 1980, Saturday, Final Edition

Refugee 'Protector';
U.N. Official Oversees Growing Tide Of the World's Displaced Citizens

BYLINE: By Christopher Dickey, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: First Section; A14

LENGTH: 1145 words

DATELINE: MANAGUA, Nicaragua


"This person here," said Poul Hartling, 65, talking about himself with an air of
incredulity, "is the protector of all the refugees in the world."

That is close to 10 million people.  In one way or another Hartling, a former
prime minister of Denmark and since 1977 the United Nations high commissioner
for refugees, must find ways of coping with all of them.

They are the boat people of Southeast Asia, the persecuted tribesmen of Africa,
Afghans fleeing the Soviet war machine, and soon, as the governments that
invited Hartling here to Central America fear, they may include thousands of
Salvadorans and Guatemalans displaced by the growing turmoil in their homelands.

They are not Cubans, however, at least not as far as Hartling is concerned.

He is not convinced that the majority of Cubans now flooding the United States
were fleeing political persecution so much as seeking to join relatives or find
economic opportunities.  "We have to differentiate between refugees and
immigrants," said Hartling.  "I never said the Cubans were refugees.  My feeling
is that case by case you can find refugees among them.  But taken as a whole you
cannot say they are refugees."

It is obviously a sensitive point with him.  He reiterates, "We are not saying
that any Cuban coming out of Cuba is a refugee.  No never.  Not.  Not."

As a result, though the United States is one of the principal financial
contributors to the high commissioner's office, it is getting only limited help
from Hartling's staff in this currrent crisis.  Primarily they are concerning
themselves with the resettlement of those few Cubans who do not want to remain
in the United States or those President Carter has said cannot.

"We are not looking into 100,000 cases but only into a few hundred," Hartling
said.

For all of Washington's anxieties, the high commissioner suggested, the United
States is capable of coping with the Cuban influx on its own.  Hartling's
resources are put to work in areas that have no means of helping the uprooted
masses who flow across their frontiers.

Hartling talks about the suffering millions in Africa who make up almost half of
the world's refugee population but are largely ignored outside their own
continent.  "They die in the jungle," he said.  "They say to me 'Can't we find a
border to cross?  We want to be boat people.'"

Hartling believes as most people who deal with refugees do, that the preferred
solution to their plight is repatriation.  The second alternative is temporary
resettlement in nearby havens, usually referred to as countries of first asylum.

The least-favored solution is permanent resettlement, but it is for many the
only solution.  And for many of these this means they will find new homes in the
United States, which accepts more refugees for permanent resettlement than any
other country in the world.  Currently, for instance, 14,000 of about 25,000
Indochinese being resettled each month are destined for the United States,
according to Hartling.

The high commissioner does not like to speculate about the future.  "We do not
go around the world looking for problems," he said.  But as he visits Venezuela,
Costa Rica, Honduras, Nicaragua and Mexico he is meeting with government
officials who are extremely concerned about the potential for a new explosion of
refugees in this area within a few years and quite possible within a few months.

Central America is just beginning to recover, a year later, from the massive
flow of refugees out of Nicaragua.  At the height of the fighting last June and
July 100,000 Nicaraguans fled to neighboring Costa Rica and Honduras while
another 800,000 people were displaced within its borders.  Altogether they made
up close to half the population.

The high commissioner's office has plowed almost $5.5 million into their
repatriation, including health and agricultural programs "so they will have
something to return to," as Hartling put it.

The high commissioner also took on the responsibility for several hundred
families of former Nicaraguan National Guardsmen who sought asylum in Honduras
after their defeat at the hands of the Sandinistas.  Partly to avoid political
problems with Nicaragua, these people were never officially declared refugees
and are now, with some difficulty, being absorbed into Honduran society.

But even as the Nicaraguan crisis is drawing to a close, refugees are beginning
to flow out of El Salvador in ever greater numbers.  Officially they only number
in the hundreds at the moment, but, as the terrorism of left-wing guerrillas,
right-wing extremists and an increasingly active Army increases, some of
Salvador's neighbors fear as many as half a million people may try to excape
that tiny, densely populated country.

Guatemala meanwhile is also the scene of rising violence.  If anything
resembling full-scale war breaks out there, floods of refugees, many of them
uneducated and largely unskilled Indian farmers, could be expected to cross the
border into Mexico.

Many Salvadoran and Guatemalan refugees could also be expected to come to
Nicaragua, which is struggling just to keep its own people fed, or to Costa
Rica, which is already, in Hartling's words, "A Noah's ark or a Babylon, if you
like," of refugees.

The potential for crisis is enormous, not only for this area but for the United
States.  Washington must cope not only with the officially acknowledged refugees
for whom Hartling is responsible, but with thousands of people who, under
slightly different circumstances would be eligible for asylum in the world's
eyes but are now considered and treated as illegal aliens.

According to U.S. immigration officials in Mexico City substantial numbers of
Salvadorans are apparently slipping into the United States.  Some of them are
technocrats and low level Salvadoran government employees who pay as much as
$500 to smugglers to fly them to the Mexican-U.S. border and slip them across.
Poorer Salvadorans are making their way on buses with the same goal.

They seek the physical security and the economic promise of the United States,
hoping it will be their country of first and last asylum, at least until peace
is restored in their homeland.

Congressman Bill Alexander (D-Ark.), whose constituents are concerned about the
Cuban refugee camp at Fort Chafee and who visited Nicaragua earlier this week as
part of a special presidential mission, is attempting to organize a hemispheric
conference to cope with refugee problems.  Alexander found that the Nicaraguans
were willing to help and tentative plans were laid to hold such a meeting within
the year.

Yet, as Hartling makes clear, the basic problem will never be solved until most
of the refugees can go back to their homelands.  In this and in many other parts
of the world, that time seems increasingly remote.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Picture, Poul Hartling . . . emphasizes repatriation

                       Copyright 1980 The Washington Post


                              864 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             May 17, 1980 Saturday

THE REFUGEE EXPLOSION   Not since the Second World War   have there been so many
families   fleeing oppression and war

BYLINE: David Lancashire; GAM

LENGTH: 1079 words

DATELINE: Toronto ON


BY DAVID LANCASHIRE
 IN SOMALIA, a cattle herder squats in the dust of a refugee camp and tells
 in his wife and children, slaughtered before his eyes by Ethiopian soldiers
 . In Lebanon, a woman with a baby in each arm flees from the gunfire in her
 frontier village and trudges to her new home - a tent in Beirut's football
 stadium.

In Florida, a sea-lift brings 45,000 Cubans to asylum in the United
 States in three weeks, and President Jimmy Carter declares a state of
 emergency as thousands more scramble to leave Cuba. In Hong Kong, a leaky
 boat unloads the latest cargo of haggard fugitives from Vietnam.

The woman, the cattle herder, the Cubans and the boat people - all are
 part of a refugee explosion bursting around the world.

The present tide of refugees, swollen by the brushfire wars of Africa
 and the upheaval of Indochina, is the most widespread since the Second
 World War.

The victims are too numerous to count accurately, but the United
 Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in Geneva figures the global
 refugee population now surpasses eight million. Another 2.6 million are
 catalogued as displaced persons.

Many more are unregistered, or fail to fall within the UN's strict
 definition of refugees. International Red Cross figures indicate the
 number of uprooted people might approach twice the UN estimate.
    "The seventies were the decade of the refugee, and the eighties don't
 look any better," says Guy Ouellet of the UN High Commission for Refugees
 in Ottawa. "Our worldwide budget in 1970 to look after refugees was $8.3-
 million. This year it is $500-million."
    News events of the past few weeks and months are pushing the total of
 homeless higher.

The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan has driven 710,000 Afghan refugees,
 at the latest count, into neighboring Pakistan, says Guy Ouellet. About
 103,000 Africans have fled from a civil war in Chad, one of the world's
 poorest countries. Four thousand or more Caribbean boat people have sailed
 since January from Haiti to the United States, where they are detained as
 illegal immigrants, not refugees. And the Hanoi Government appears to have
 reopened the exit gates of Vietnam for escapers - the 2,690 Vietnamese
 boat people who reached safe haven in January grew to 5,342 in March.

Refugees from Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos have replaced British
 immigrants as the single largest group of people entering Canada. Last
 year, compared to about 12,800 Britons, 24,573 Indochinese came to Canada
 under an emergency program that will bring in a total of 60,000 by end of
 1980.

Despite recent protests that Canada accepts only the best qualified
 refugees and turns away less suitable applicants, Ottawa immigration
 officials say Canada is proportionately the world's most welcoming country
 for refugees.

Canada defines refugees by the United Nations ruling: "A person who,
 owing to a well-founded fear of being persecuted for reasons of race,
 religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or
 political opinion, is outside the country of his nationality" and is
 unable or unwilling to return. Between 1947 and May 1 of this year, Canada
 accepted 334,851 refugees.

They include 186,150 Europeans displaced by the Second World War,
 37,149 Hungarians following the 1956 uprising in Hungary, 228 Tibetans who
 followed the Dalai Lama into exile in 1959, 11,943 Czechoslovaks from the
 Soviet occupation of 1968, 7,069 Ugandan Asians expelled by Idi Amin,
 7,016 political refugees from Chile, Argentina and Uruguay, 11,321
 fugitives from Lebanon's civil war, 98 Kurds from a mountain war  in Iraq,
 and since 1975, 45,424 Indochinese.

The average refugee costs the Government $1,500 in settling-in
 expenses, and is usually self-reliant within six months, immigration
 officers say. Refugees are also obliged to repay the cost of bringing them
 to Canada, the officers say, and 95 per cent of them do so.

Despite the efforts of Canada, the United States and other major
 countries of refuge such as Britain, France and Australia (prosperous
 Japan is an exception to this category; the UN says Japan has accepted
 only 325 Indochinese) no solution to the world refugee problem is in
 sight.

After four wars in the Middle East, 1.8 million Palestinians are still
 registered as refugees (with 650,000 of them in camps). Western countries
 have resettled more than 375,000 Indochinese, but another million, mostly
 Cambodians, still huddle in camps in Southeast Asia. Nearly 210,000
 Africans displaced by the war in Rhodesia-Zimbabwe are now returning home,
 but officials say the world's gravest refugee problem remains in Africa.

This is in Somalia, where more than 634,000 people have been driven
 from their homeland in Ethiopia's Ogaden desert. "It has not received much
 world attention, but the problems there are worse than Indochina," says UN
 official Ouellet. Refugees are scattered throughout Africa from Angola to
 Zambia; the Sudan alone is burdened with about 450,000 from Ethiopia,
 Chad, Zaire and Uganda.

Other problems of displaced peoples linger for years, sometimes
 generations, wreaking bloodshed and hardship long after the world has
 forgotten the causes.

Armenians have been seeking a homeland since almost one million of them
 died when they were driven from Turkey in 1915. Armenian vengeance squads
 claim to have committed recently 99 bombings, killings and assassination
 attempts in Europe and the Middle East. In Holland, 40,000 Moluccans who
 lost their territory to Indonesia more than 30 years ago still dream of
 independence. Moluccan gunmen take their revenge on the Dutch.
 Palestinians terrorists have become a world menace.

About 60,000 Chileans have been living in exile since the overthrow of
 President Salvador Allende in 1973. Canadian doctors have examined about
 150 torture victims among South American refugees. In Cyprus, 200,000
 Greek Cypriots have been waiting to return to their homes since the
 Turkish invasion of 1974. Kurdish tribes scattered by Iraqi army in 1975
 are now vying for autonomy in Iran. Israel, whose population is built on
 refugees, last year made room for more than 10,000 Jews who left Iran to
 escape persecution by the Ayatollah Khomaini's followers. Illegal
 immigrants from China pour into Hong Kong at the rate of 1,000 per day.

This month in the Netherlands and West Germany, international
 conferences are discussing ways to co-ordinate the resettling of refugees
 and to ease the financial load of the poorer host countries. But the
 conferences will not halt the exodus.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: yes

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1980 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              865 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            March 19, 1980 Wednesday

Western giveaways   creating problems,   Thai unionist says

BYLINE: CP

LENGTH: 557 words

DATELINE: Quebec PQ


QUEBEC (CP) - Canada and other Western countries are fuelling inflation,
 encouraging development of a black market and creating social unrest in
 Thailand by giving food and medical aid to refugees in that country, a
 Thai trade unionist said yesterday.

Snan Vongsuthee, head of the National Congress of Thai Labor, said
 farmers who live along the Thailand-Cambodia border near refugee camps
 feel they are being discriminated against.
    'They see the Red Cross, the United Nations and other international
 agencies giving aid to the refugees when they (farmers) have to work hard
 for a living,' he told a conference on trade unions and human rights.

The attitude of many Thai people toward the refugees was: 'They just
 sit down all day, eat and sleep and they receive assistance. What about
 us?'
    Mr. Vongsuthee said his union was trying to dispel this attitude by
 publicizing the fact that the United States, Canada and most Western
 countries increased aid to Thailand at the same time they began helping
 the approximately 500,000 refugees who poured into that country because
 of fighting in Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam.

Problems are unavoidable

The problems caused by establishing refugee camps are unfortunate, but
 probably unavoidable and insoluble, he said later in an interview at the
 week-long conference sponsored by the World Confederation of Labor.

Building the camps caused the price of grass thatching for house roofs
 to triple, he said. In some cases, the camps buy up all the vegetables
 and cooking oil on local markets, depriving Thai residents of adequate
 food.

Young people, their expectations raised by close contacts with
 'rich' Westerners, have found refugees to be eager clients for their
 black-market goods.
    'These young people come back at night from the refugee camps with a
 lot of money and spend their evenings in coffee shops, drinking or
 wandering the streets,' he said.

An African speaker told the delegates, representing 59 countries and
 66 trade union organizations, that no one should envy refugees.

Almost half the refugees in the world live in Africa, said Femmi
 Peters, representing the Gambia Trade Union Congress.
    'To be a refugee is the worst of all fates,' he said. 'To wonder
 day by day what will happen to you, to wonder what will happen to your
 children, to be totally dependent on the good will and charity of others
 is the most degrading of all."

Different view of rights

Speakers from Third World countries emphasized they do not view human
 rights the same way people in Western industrialized democracies do.
 Westerners think of political rights, while people in the Third World are
 struggling to get enough food, clean water, adequate housing and some
 education.
    'Workers in Asia are talking about the basic needs,' Mr. Vongsuthee
 said. 'When we have food, medicine, housing, education, then political
 rights will come.'
    Dominique Agoumba, of the Federation of African Agricultural Workers,
 said people in the Third World should demand another right: To choose the
 type of economic development in their country.

He said both capitalist and socialist countries force African
 countries to conform to their economic systems in order to get aid.

He urged the rest of the world to have faith in Africans' integrity,
 sense of responsibility and ability to choose their own form of economic
 development.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1980 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              866 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     August 10, 1979, Friday, Final Edition


Blue Jeans and Boat People, VOA and the Golden Door

BYLINE: By Henry Mitchell

SECTION: Style; Any Day; D1

LENGTH: 1822 words


The Voice of America is not especially grim but then it's not a playpen, either,
and people there take responsibility seriously, their heads full of the 100
million people who listen (in the course of a week) to their broadcasts in
Europe, Asia, Africa, South America and other outlandish places.

It unnerved them a little, at first, to discover the current director, R. Peter
Straus, "wandering about the halls at 2 in the morning in blue jeans and
sneakers" as one highly placed VOA source put it.

Straus really is a New Yorker but got a house in Southwest Washington, five
blocks from the office.

He didn't have a car, but a motorcycle, when he arrived two years ago.  As a
notable muckety-muck, he had a grand reserved parking place and naturally
stabled the old Honda in it.

"Mr. Straus," said a security official late one night, "I am sure you do not
have a motorcycle but there's one in your parking place and -"

"I have a motorcycle," Straus said.

"Oh, God, I was afraid of that.  Well, it's down there with a ticket on it."

Straus' wife commutes from New York on weekends only, and that is the reason he
can be found all kinds of hours in the office, and that is why he is so trim:

"I'm a physical exercise nut," he said, "but not handball, no.  Tennis, jogging,
and I have a not of time for it with my wife (Ellen Louise Sulzberger, married
in 1950) out of town so much."

I mentioned that lately we keep seeing hints in the columns of pundits that the
Voice of America keeps raising the hopes of refugees in Indochina, and asked
what the hell is going on?

"Nine times out of 10," he said, settling back with the air of a man who knows
it's going to take a few minutes, "the job here is challenging and joyful.
Eight times out of 10 it's enjoyable."

I said nothing of the reduced percentage, not being one to nit-pick, and he went
on:

"But sometimes the Voice of America is in the middle and it's not enjoyable.
Take just two examples, the Russian dissidents and the Indochina refugees,
including the boat people.

"We have the obligation to broadcast the news and broadcast it straight.  We do
this 853 hours a week and we are proud of our credibility around the world.

"But when we broadcast news items about, say, Solzhenitsyn's Harvard speech,
which was by no means flattering to the United States, we know it may have
effects.  The Soviet dissidents keep saying it is urgently important to keep
hammering at the plight of dissidents.  But what about some guy in Kiev, say,
who is not a celebrity, not a man of worldwide reputation, who is only a
moderate nuisance to his government.

"I keep thinking, maybe he would be let alone as long as nothing much was said
about dissidents, but maybe his government would crack down on him, hard, if
dissidents are discussed too much in world news.

"Or take the boat people fleeing from Vietnam.  Again, we broadcast the news,
straight.  You've been through the file and read what we've said.  But when we
report that Malaysia and Indonesia are closing their borders to refugees, and
that Hong Kong and Thailand are taking pressure from thousands of refugees, of
course a man thinking of becoming a refugee will figure it out that it's better
for him to go to Thailand than to Indonesia, and in that sense it could be said
the Voice of America directs him where to go."

Or if the Voice carries a pledge from the White House that the refugee problem
has top priority with Carter, and another news dispatch mentions the location of
the Seventh Fleet, it doesn't take much analysis for the potential refugee to
head for the fleet instead of some other direction.

Straus says the wording of refugee news is often agonized over, to make certain
it does not give any refugee the impression he will be safe if he just heads for
an American ship.

There have been two commentaries (editorials) on the refugee problem, prepared
on May 25 and June 15, both of them criticizing Hanoi for expelling the ethnic
Chinese and urging a more humane handling of the exodus.

But it's true that in villages in Vietnam or Cambodia, isolated peasants may
indeed first learn from news items via the Voice that thousands are finding
temporary refuge in Thailand, and are learning their plight is of major concern
to the American government, and this may in fact embolden some to try leaving
who would otherwise have thought their case was hopeless.

It is not the same thing, however, as if the Voice had tried to further American
distaste for Hanoi at the cost of inciting hundreds of thousands to flee, many
of them to their deaths.

It has had little attention, but one of the great developments at the Voice of
America is the clear separation of news from propaganda.

"Our credibility is rising," said Straus, "and we'd like to think it's because
we are fine fellows doing a fine job, but I don't think that has anything to do
with it.

"The way the people who hear the Voice of America perceive the United States has
changed.  They now see the United States as the great power, where formerly they
saw Great Britain.  They are more likely now to take the Voice of America to
heart than the BBC (British Broadcasting Corporation).

"But before I came to this job, the Voice had handled the Watergate scandal with
such objectivity that I think it impressed the world audience.  They thought if
the Voice could report that news, so damaging and embarrassing to the American
government, then probably it could be trusted to report other news without bias
too.

"The traditional way to handle policy interests (propaganda) in all
international broadcasting companies, has been to do it through the news that's
reported.  And the news that's not reported.  But -"

"Just here," I broke in, "take the case of Andy Young sounding off about
American jails being full of political prisoners.  That was certainly news.  I
suppose Voice of America reported it at the time?"

"In 38 languages," said Straus.

"What seemed to make more sense than leaving out damaging news or trying to make
policy (propaganda) points by means of the news, was to have straight news on
the one hand, and policy commentaries on the other," he said.

"I thought, why shouldn't the U.S. government have an occasional say-so, to
argue its own policies before the radio world?  Wouldn't it be better to say to
the world audience, look, here's the straight news.  And now, please listen for
two minutes to a commentary that reflects official American policy."

After all, Straus said, "none of that audience is so unsophisticated as to think
the American government is in broadcasting just for their health.

"But that audience has to have faith, and we have to earn it, that the American
government official viewpoint is contained in the clearly labeled commentaries,
not in slanted or managed news.  In the long run, your best chance is simply to
be honest with the news and then hope they'll listen to the commentaries on
their merits."

There are only about three commentaries a week.  Usually they are broadcast
throughout the world, not tailored for specific countries.  In Africa, he said,
the commentary about the Tokyo Round might not be broadcast on grounds it did
not interest its audience, not on grounds it would be politically or
propagandistically imprudent to air it.

Straus, the day I visited him, wore a shirt of murrey color with a dark tie and
a neat standard-looking suit of blue cord from Arthur A. Adler.  End fashion
flash.

When he is not jogging or roaming the midnight newsroom he gardens with 18 kinds
of geranium and many ivies.

"It's just the size of an overgrown handkerchief," he said.  He does not have a
lot of dogs or cats or parakeets and a lot of the time he's simply waiting for
his wife.  They have four children and both parents, he said, were keen for them
to partake of the real world:

"The real world.  But instead, all four of them are in media jobs."

You never know, as a parent, where you went wrong, and life is too short to
worry about it now.

I asked him what books formed his mind, hoping for Lewis Carroll, Machiavelli,
Castiglione and Gaskell, but refusing to prime the pump with any suggestions:

"Interesting question," he said.  "Which books.  I don't know that I can say."
(Pause.  And I knew he intended to go to his grave before he told me.  People
are often embarrassed to confess which books they found glorious.  Who wants to
admit to "The Anatomy of Melancholy" or "Fairy Tales from Old Japan"?)

"I'll tell you an interesting sidebar about one book," he said.  "My father was
best friends and college roommate (Heidelberg) with Otto Frank, father of Anne
Frank.  He visited us at our house with the manuscript diary.  My father and I
admired it, but thought we were going to have trouble getting it published."

"Probably," I said agreeably.  "The book was marvelous, so naturally you would
have trouble finding a publisher.  How long did it take?"

"About a year and a half," he said.  Finally we found a publisher in Germany.
And once people read it, it was soon all over the world."

Voice correspondents in various countries used to be able to buy their scotch at
embassy commissaries (to put first things first) and had access to classified
papers, and to convenient comfy offices in embassies and to Telex machines and
so on.

Straus thought that if news was to be independent of government tampering then
his correspondents should rent their own offices and find their own means of
transmitting copy, and travel on regular, not diplomatic, passports, and buy
their own scotch at stores, and needless to say the correspondents thought the
end had come to civilization as they knew it.

But once they were weaned, they liked it.  So did ambassadors, who no longer
felt responsible for what correspondents reported (and were no longer chewed out
for what correspondents did).

Straus did not smoke.  He is a very strong man, however, and does not faint if
others do.

He spoke for a bit on the wide range of men, the richness of variety.  If he
were not an American official, he probably would have said a thousand flowers
should bloom.

He seemed to be a happy man.  Of course he does not have three dogs to be walked
and his children are grown, and he can come to the office in blue jeans if he
wants to.Even so, happiness is a gift.

He has family photographs all over the place.  His geraniums are doing fine, and
the Carter administration has gone right along with his ideas for the Voice.
The boat people are in the water - no American can escape the burden of that
fact.  The wretched refuse of a teeming shore, as a wit once put it.  Still, to
be an American, working for the Voice.  It's rather a big deal.  You sense all
this from Straus.

The lady with the lamp in the harbor.  (He's a New Yorker).  And it's still, by
God, a golden door.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1979 The Washington Post


                              867 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    March 15, 1979, Thursday, Final Edition

Administration Officials Urge Law Change To Widen Diversity of Refugees Admitted

BYLINE:  By Warren Brown, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION:  First Section; A21

LENGTH: 518 words


A revision of U.S. refugee laws would widen the diversity of the refugee
population admitted to this country without necessarily increasing the number of
refugees, Carter administration officials said yesterday.

"Until now our refugee laws have hampered our ability to accommodate the demands
for resettlement in the United States in anything but amakeshift way," said Dick
Clark, a former U.S. senator who ahs been nominated by President Carter to
become U.S. coordinator of refugee affairs.

Clark said the geographic and ideological criteria of current refugee laws are
inherently discriminatory because "they exclude many refugees, particularly from
the Western Hemisphere (Latin America) and Africa."

For example, he said only people fleeing communist governments or countries in
the Middle East are classified as refugees under existing U.S. laws.  The
statutes ignore the plight of persons escaping persecution under right wing
governments, or of those fleeing racism or civil war in Africa, he said.

"As a result, over the past 23 years we have repeatedly had to deny needy
refugees," said Clark, one of four administration officials testifying before
the Senate Judiciary Committee yesterday on behalf of legislation designed to
overhaul current U.S. refugee laws.

The legislation, which is expected to increase controversy over an already
emotional issue, was fashioned by the administration in conjunction with Sen.
Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) and Rep. Peter W. Rodino Jr. (D-N. J.), chairmen of
the Senate and House Judiciary committees, and Rep. Elizabeth Holtzman (D-M.
Y.), chairwoman of the House subcommittee on immigration, refugees and
international law.

Kennedy, Rodino and Holtzman jointly introduced the bill Tuesday.

Expand the definition of "refugee" to include any person coutside of his or her
country who is unwilling or unable to return to that country because of
persecution or a wellfounded fear of persecution because of race, religion,
nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion."

Establish new rules and procedures designed to admit refugees to the United
States on a more equitable and orderly basis.

Raise the ceiling for the "normal flow" of refugees to the United States from
17,400 to 50,000 annually.

Limit the U.S. attorney general's parole authority -- frequently used to admit
large groups of refugees outside the courrent statutory ceiling -- to its
intended use, the admission of individual refugees on an emergency basis.

The Judiciary Committee hearing-yesterday indicated that much of the opposition
to the legislation probably will be generated by the proposals to expand the
definition of "refugee" and to raise the "normal flow" ceiling.

But Clark said in response to panel questions that the legislation "clearly does
not" encourage a massive increase in refugees to the United States.  In fact, he
said, there may be no increase at all.

"The president may also determine to admit fewer than 50,000 refugees in a given
fiscal year -- letting the unused numbers lapse," Clarke said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1979 The Washington Post


                              868 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     March 8, 1979, Thursday, Final Edition

Carter Seeking Major Revision Of Refugee Laws;
Carter Seeking Major Revision of Refugee Laws

BYLINE:  By Christopher Dickey, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION:  First Section; A1

LENGTH: 769 words


The Carter administration expects to submit to Congress today the first
comprehensive overhaul of U.S. refugee laws since 1952, according to State and
Justice department officials.

The bill, written during five months of close consultation between the
administration and the Senate Judiciary Committee staff, comes at a time when
the number of refugees in Southeast Asia, Eastern Europe, Africa and Latin
America has reached crisis proportions.  There are now more people seeking
permanent resettlement outside their homelands than at any time since the end of
World War II.

The new legislation provides for a normal annual flow of at least 50,000
refugees a year into the United States, but the president, after consultation
with Congress, could raise that figure before the beginning of any given year.

If an emergency situation arises, such as the surge of hundreds of thousands of
refugees who have fled Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia in recent months, the
president would also have the power to admit as many of them as he deemed of
special concern to the United States.  The legislation does not set a ceiling on
the number who can be brought into the country under such circumstances.

Since World War II an average of about 40,000 refugees a year have been allowed
into the United States, including the massive influxes after the Cuban
revolution and the fall of Saigon.

The new legislation calls for considerable federal assistance in the relocation
and resettlement of the refugees, including extensive educational programs.
Most refugees would be eligible for federally subsidized welfare assistance for
up to two yeas after their arrival, though past experience suggests that the
vast majority are financially independent of government aid after a few months.

An administration study that accompanied a recent draft of the bill estimates
the total cost to the taxpayer for refugee relocation and resettlement at just
over $1 billion dollars over the next five years if the flow is kept to 50,000.

If the influx is 100,000 a year, however, the five-year cost would be about $1.7
billion.

The analysis suggests that "most of the same costs would be incurred in any
event if a comparable number of refugee admissions were made available under
existing law."

At present the only people who may be admitted under normal procedures are those
fleeing communist regimes or the Middle East.  As a result it has been extremely
difficult for refugees from right-wing oppression to obtain asylum in the United
States.

A proposed new definition of "refugee" would apply worldwide to anyone who is
outside his or her country and unable or unwilling to return because of
persecution, or a well-founded fear of it, stemming from race, religion,
nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion.

Because of the limited definition in the past, and the fact that only 17,400
refugees a year were allowed into the United States even if they met it, most
refugees have had to come into the United States under the emergency "parole
authority" of the attorney general.

This provision in the current law was originally intended to allow in only
individual refugees under highly specialized circumstances -- not, as has been
the practice since the mid-1950s, scores or even hundreds of thousands of
displaced people at a time.  Returned to its position as a limited measure, the
parole authority remains a part of the administration bill.

Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) has been a prime mover in attempts to revise
refugee law.  He and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Peter W. Rodino Jr.
(D-N.J.) are expected to introduce the administration proposal.

"For too long our policy toward refugee assistance [has] been ad hoc and has
lacked effective planning and efficient programming," Kennedy said recently.
"We have admitted refugees in fits and starts because our immigration law has
been inadequate, discriminatory and totally out of touch with today's needs."

Previous legislation was stalled in the Senate Judiciary Committee but Kennedy
-- who is now to the committee chairman -- said that he is optimistic about
passage of the administration's bill.

Currently there are at least 200,000 refugees in Indochina alone who would be
affected by the legislation if it passes.

At present, both Australia and France accept more Indochinese refugees in
proportion to their population than the United States does.  Israel, Germany and
Britain have all resettled large numbers of refugees for whom they feel they
have special responsibilities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1979 The Washington Post


                              869 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                 NEW YORK TIMES

                            November 2, 1975, Sunday

SECTION: Page 24, Column 1

LENGTH: 118 words

Plight of more than 1,000 Indochinese refugees currently at Ft Chaffee (Ark),
special cases representing terminally ill, aged, security risks and other
refugees who cannot or do not wish to enter Amer soc, described in light of fact
that center is scheduled to close by Jan 1 '76.  US State Dept refugee program
coordinator Donald G MacDonald comments.  Special arrangements that are being
made around country to handle cases described.  Group of 200 refugees organized
by RC priest has expressed wish to relocate in Gabon (W Africa).  Decision of
whether Gabon will accept group is not expected for about 7 wks.  More than 100
additional Vietnamese are being assigned to sponsors daily at Ft Chaffee (M).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE:  NYT

TYPE: 306-5

              Copyright 1975 The New York Times Company: Abstracts


                              870 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                Sentinel & Enterprise (Fitchburg, Massachusetts)

                            March 15, 2018 Thursday

Hundreds become citizens at Gardner ceremony

BYLINE: By Amanda Burke, aburke@sentinelandenterprise.com

SECTION: NEWS; Local

LENGTH: 530 words


GARDNER -- Chandra Ramdama fled Bhutan in 1992 and spent two decades in a Nepali
refugee camp, where his children received no formal education. He spent nights
under plastic-tarp tents and watched countless other refugees succumb to
illness.

Ramdama is one of 225 people from 59 countries who on Wednesday became the
nation's newest citizens, having each been sworn in during a naturalization
ceremony at the Mount Wachusett Community College theater.

"We were in Bhutan and it wasn't our country, we were in Nepal and it wasn't our
country. We spent 20 years without any identity, and now we are getting
citizenship, so this is a proud moment," he said, his son Purna translating for
him.

The 85-year-old and his family were accepted into the United States' refugee
program five years ago, according to Purna, who wore a suit adorned with a pin
shaped like a soaring bird on the lapel.

The soon-to-be-naturalized U.S. citizens sat in a section of the theater, and
family packed the remaining seats.

Some cradled children, others held hands, and all applauded as Gardner Mayor
Mark Hawke, Mount Wachusett Community College President James Vander Hooven,
former state Sen. Stephen Brewer and U.S. District Court Chief Magistrate Judge
David H. Hennessy spoke.

"You are the story of America, and you always have been the story of America,"
Brewer said.

Clauther Vincent, 23, of Lowell, immigrated to the United States in 2010. He
joined the U.S. armed services, and in three months leaves for his first
overseas deployment to Africa.

He was a lawful permanent resident before Wednesday, when, in uniform, he led
the ceremony in the Pledge of Allegiance.

"As a kid in Haiti you see the many benefits of living in the United States," he
said, smiling. "Today feels special, because now I have the VIP status."

Wendy Puello's father brought her from the Dominican Republic to New York 30
years before she became a U.S. citizen, just like her three children.

"I have goosebumps," she said, running her hand up her arm. "I can't explain it,
I just feel so happy."

Hundreds of thousands of people become naturalized citizens annually. For some,
being able to vote in a nation where they have lived for years was a push toward
seeking citizenship.

Nuno Rodrigues, 46, immigrated from Portugal with his parents who sought work.
That was 40 years ago. Today, Rodrigues, a road construction worker from Ludlow,
looks forward to this year's election.

"Like they say, every vote counts, and if I'm going to have opinions, have
something to say, I must be able to vote," he said.

Vincent McDonald, 65, said when he was a child, his parents moved his family off
their farm in New Brunswick. At the time, large numbers of residents of the
province were leaving as earning a living by farming became increasingly
difficult, he said.

His father started a machine shop, and his brother fought with the Americans in
the Vietnam War. He narrowly missed being drafted himself, he said, because the
war ended three months before his number was expected to be called.

Just over 55 years later, on Wednesday, he felt just a bit more patriotic.

"This Fourth of July is going to be a little bit extra special for me," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2018

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sam Mehdiyev, 27, of Marlboro, met his future wife while on vacation in
the United States. He became a citizen on Wednesday at Mount Wachusett Community
College in Gardner.SENTINEL & ENTERPRISE / AMANDA BURKE
Sam Mehdiyev, 27, of Marlboro, met his future wife while on vacation in the
United States. He became a citizen on Wednesday at Mount Wachusett Community
College in Gardner.SENTINEL & ENTERPRISE / AMANDA BURKE
"This Fourth of July is going to be a little bit extra special for me," said
Vincent McDonald, 65, of Marlboro, who moved with his family to the United
States from Canada 55 years ago. He became a U.S. citizen during a ceremony at
Mount Wachusett Community College on Wednesday.SENTINEL & ENTERPRISE / AMANDA
BURKE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2018 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Mid-States Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              871 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           The Advertiser (Australia)

                             June 10, 2017 Saturday
                               Advertiser Edition

Adelaide refugee's life a hit in US

BYLINE: LOUISE NUNN ARTS WRITER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 280  words


AN Adelaide refugee's story staged in a play in America has met with standing
ovations and moved audiences to tears.

Premiering in Chicago last month, Objects in the Mirror is set in Adelaide and
tells the true story of a young African immigrant and the lawyer who helped him
regain his identity.

Salisbury Downs actor Shedrick Yarkpai and Adelaide lawyer and theatre director
Rob Croser, are the real life characters in the new play by African-American
Charles Smith.

The tale charts Yarkpai's life in war-torn Liberia, West Africa, and refugee
camps in Ivory Coast and Guinea, ending with him finding peace in Australia. The
action starts in Adelaide but flashes back to Yarkpai's early life.

Glenelg beach, Victor Harbor and even Croser's pet West Highland terrier are
among the Adelaide references.

Yarkpai said he could not believe his life had been turned into a play. "This is
something very rare and I'm so grateful to Rob and the writer Charles Smith for
putting it on in Chicago for hundreds of people to see," he said. "I feel very
proud." Rescued from the refugee camps by an uncle, Yarkpai, now 35, arrived in
Adelaide in 2005 and met Croser a year later when he auditioned for Croser's
Independent Theatre company.

He's appeared in more than a dozen Independent shows - including two others
penned by Smith - and met the playwright in Adelaide in 2009, when Independent
staged Smith's Free Man of Colour, starring Yarkpai.

When Yarkpai told Smith his story, the playwright asked instantly to stage it.
Croser attended the Chicago world premiere and said the work received standing
ovations.While Yarkpai was unable to attend, he was Skyped into a public forum
before it opened.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Advertiser


                   Copyright 2017 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              872 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                       Financial Times (London, England)

                             March 7, 2017 Tuesday
                                London Edition 1

Trump takes second shot at imposing travel ban on Muslim-majority nations

BYLINE: Demetri Sevastopulo in Washington

SECTION: FRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 393 words


President Donald Trump signed an executive order yesterday that prohibits
citizens from six predominantly Muslim nations from entering the US. It was his
second attempt at a travel ban after his first botched effort in January was
knocked back by the courts.

The order bars citizens of Sudan, Syria, Iran, Libya, Somalia and Yemen from
entering America for 90 days while vetting procedures are reviewed. It takes
effect on March 16 and will not apply to those who obtain a visa before that
date. It removes Iraq from the original list to avoid punishing those who
assisted US-led military efforts.

The move marks an effort by Mr Trump to push ahead with his campaign vow to
introduce "extreme vetting" of people from Muslim-majority countries while
addressing some of the criticisms raised by the courts, which blocked his
January 27 order after it sparked travel chaos around the world.

Rex Tillerson, secretary of state, said it was a "vital measure for
strengthening our national security", adding that Mr Trump was using "his
rightful authority to keep our people safe".

The original order sparked criticism that it amounted to a Muslim ban, in
contravention of constitutional prohibitions of religious tests. Officials said
the new order targeted nations where it was harder to screen terrorists.

"This is not a Muslim ban in any way shape way or form," said one US official.
"This is a temporary suspension of nations from six countries that are failed
states or state sponsors of terror."

The official noted that there were more than a billion Muslims globally "who are
free to come to the US".

While the new order temporarily suspends the main US refugee programme for 120
days, it removes the original blanket ban on refugees from Syria and subjects
them to the same conditions as refugees from other nations. "We cannot risk the
prospect of malevolent actors using our immigration system to take American
lives," said John Kelly, homeland security secretary.

While it was too early to say if the new order would satisfy the courts,
Democrats and human rights groups hit out at Mr Trump, accusing him of pushing
policies that would endanger the US.

"President Trump is handing Isis recruitment gold and is putting American lives
at risk," said Chris Murphy, a Democratic senator from Connecticut.

Wiretap claim & Germany trade page 4 Editorial Comment page 12

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved
Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the
                                      web.


                              873 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                       Financial Times (London, England)

                           February 25, 2017 Saturday
                                London Edition 1

The Muslim model shaking up the status quo;
MILAN FASHION WEEK

BYLINE: Carola Long

SECTION: FASHION; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 575 words



HIGHLIGHT: A Kenyan-born model in a hijab has become the talking point of the
shows. By Carola Long


Who is the most talked-about woman on the catwalk this season? Not a returning
1990s supermodel, or even the ubiquitous Gigi Hadid, but Somali-American model
Halima Aden. The fashion world first took notice when Aden, a practising Muslim
who was born in a Kenyan refugee camp, walked in Kanye West's Yeezy show in New
York last week wearing a hijab. However, West has form when it comes to casting
models from different racial backgrounds, so it wasn't as significant as when
Aden appeared for Max Mara and Alberta Ferretti this week in Milan.

At both shows, Aden was covered up in accordance with her religion. At Max Mara,
she wore a classic camel coat with matching camel-toned hijab, and at Ferretti a
dark belted coat and co-ordinating headscarf.

Ian Griffiths, creative director at Max Mara, told the Financial Times, "Max
Mara empowers women from all geographical areas, all creeds, all philosophies.
Halima is ambitious, confident and beautiful. She deserves her place in the Max
Mara world." Alberta Ferretti said, "I have many international customers and
many live in the Middle East, where there is no contradiction between wearing a
hijab and the concept of luxury." For European brands looking to strengthen
their presence in the Middle East, showing a model teaming a hijab with their
new season looks also makes good business sense.

Aden is now a US citizen. The 19-year-old has lived there since she was six, and
is studying history at St Cloud University in Minnesota. She made headlines in
November last year when she was the first Miss Minnesota USA contestant to
compete wearing a hijab during the pageant: for the event's swimsuit round she
wore a burkini. Aden reached the semi-finals of the competition, and the
organisers said they were inundated with calls about her. On February 15 she
signed with modelling agency IMG Models, who also represent Bella and Gigi
Hadid, Taylor Hill and Miranda Kerr.

Aden also appears on the current cover of Carine Roitfeld's CR Fashion Book
Issue 10. She has been photographed by Mario Sorrenti for the glossy title and
is interviewed by the Somali-born supermodel Iman, widow of the late David
Bowie.

In the interview, Aden says of her decision to enter the Miss Minnesota pageant:
"To me, it represents freedom of choice. A lot of people have the misconception
that, as a Muslim woman, I am somehow against women wearing bikinis. No, I want
women to feel comfortable and confident in whatever they wear."

Aden told the Financial Times: "Having the chance to walk at New York Fashion
Week for Yeezy and Milan Fashion Week for Alberta Ferretti and Max Mara in a
hijab is so significant. It sends a message to young women everywhere that you
can be beautiful for just being you. The past two weeks have truly been a dream
come true and the response has been overwhelmingly positive. I am happy that the
industry now includes hijab-wearing women . . . diversity and inclusion are
always something industries should strive for."

Aden's presence on the catwalks of big brands is a further sign that the
mainstream fashion industry is taking the responsibility to reflect different
types of women more seriously. It has been repeatedly criticised for failing to
hire models of different ethnicities, body shapes and ages, but this season we
have seen more diversity of race and age on the catwalks in London, as well as
plus-size model Ashley Graham in New York. It isn't a revolution yet, but it's a
start.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved
Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the
                                      web.


                              874 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                       Financial Times (London, England)

                            January 30, 2017 Monday
                                London Edition 1

Trump is deaf to the echoes of history;
OPINION

BYLINE: Jacob Weisberg

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 825 words


Going through my mother's papers after she died last year, I found a folder
marked "1940 immigration - Jewish relatives". The pleading letters and desperate
cables it contained told a story I knew only in broad outline, about how my
grandparents helped a family of distant relations escape the Nazis at the last
possible moment.

After Kristallnacht in 1938, those relatives - Sol and Fruma Teitelmann, and
their two young daughters Hanna and Mali - were desperate to "leave Germany in
any way possible as quickly as possible", as they wrote to my grandparents. As
Lithuanian nationals stranded in Frankfurt, their only hope was to obtain one of
the limited number of US immigrant visas. My grandfather Mortimer Porges wrote a
stack of letters to anyone he thought might be able to help - congressional
aides, the state department and the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society. He filled out
forms and affidavits promising to provide for the Teitelmanns in Chicago.

Grandfather Mortimer quickly hit a catch-22. Without a visa, the Teitelmanns
couldn't book passage; without boat tickets, they couldn't obtain a visa.

"At all events, we do not want to lose hope, for it would be impossible to live
here any longer in our situation without hope," the Teitelmanns wrote to my
grandparents in February 1939. But judging by the file, my grandfather was a
persistent fellow. In February 1940, the Teitelmanns at last secured a visa
under a Lithuanian quota. My grandparents turned to their extended family to
raise $890 for third-class passage on the SS Volendam. It would be the ship's
final voyage from Rotterdam before the Nazis occupied the Netherlands.

Those letters were the first thing I thought of on Friday, when President Donald
Trump issued his executive order banning refugees for four months, and visitors
of all kinds from seven Middle Eastern countries for 90 days. Here again was the
heartlessness and bureaucratic caprice that doomed so many European Jews: the
refugees pulled out of their seats on planes; the division of families caught on
opposite sides of the border; even the 17-hour detention in handcuffs of an army
translator who worked with US troops in Iraq.

Here too was the undisguised religious bigotry. Mr Trump's order fulfilled a
campaign pledge for a "total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the
United States". Mr Trump no longer calls his policy a Muslim ban, but his
supporters understand it as such, and he has been asserting his preference for
Christian immigrants. CNN reported that the order's most vicious provision - a
ban on re-entry by green-card holders who are permanent legal residents - came
at the insistence of Mr Trump's white-nationalist adviser Stephen Bannon and
over the objection of antiterrorism specialists on the National Security
Council.

For American Jews, the scenes of refugees detained in transit hold a particular
resonance. We know that most of us exist today only because our ancestors, like
the Teitelmanns, finagled their way into a country where they weren't entirely
welcome. That experience explains why several Syrian refugees trying to clear
immigration before the deadline were being met by groups from synagogues that
were sponsoring their resettlement. Jews witnessing the exodus from the Syrian
city of Aleppo or Isis's atrocities against the Yazidis, can't but see ourselves
in parallel.

Mr Trump's deafness to these echoes is staggering. His executive order capped a
week that began with his declaring a position of "America First" in his
inaugural address. He either doesn't know or doesn't care that was the slogan of
America's pro-Nazi isolationist movement, which accused Jews of drawing the
country into war. Ever ready to give offence, Mr Trump issued his refugee ban on
International Holocaust Remembrance Day, which he observed with a statement that
failed to mention Jews or anti-Semitism.

And so it is a Jewish-flavoured reaction that may finally break down the wall of
silence and fear around Mr Trump's vicious policies. "My great grandparents came
from Germany, Austria and Poland," Mark Zuckerberg wrote on his Facebook wall on
Friday night. "[His wife] Priscilla's parents were refugees from China and
Vietnam. The US is a nation of immigrants, and we should be proud of that . . .
we should also keep our doors open to refugees and those who need help."

On Saturday, Sergey Brin, the Google co-founder who comes from a family of
Soviet refuseniks, was photographed at a protest at San Francisco airport, one
of many that occurred spontaneously across the country.

The last document in my grandparents' folder is a letter dated September 1946
from the Teitelmanns. "Dear Mr and Mrs Porges," it begins. "Enclosed you find
the check for the amount of $286.00. We are happy today to be able to return
this sum with our deep gratitude for the unforgettable deed you rendered us at
the time of great need." Another such time is upon us now.

The writer is chairman of the Slate group

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved
Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the
                                      web.


                              875 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                       Financial Times (London, England)

                            January 30, 2017 Monday
                                 USA Edition 1

A capricious rebuke to America's best values;
Trump's immigration order is as badly designed as it is inhumane

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 601 words


As a statement of moral and political principle, President Trump's latest
executive order is abundantly clear. It bans people from Iran, Iraq, Libya,
Somalia, Sudan and Yemen from entering the US for three months. Syrians are
banned indefinitely. The US refugee admission programme will be shut for four
months. When refugee admissions resume, those who are religious minorities in
their country of origin will be given priority. Given the countries singled out,
this can only mean Christians.

These are presented as temporary measures to "reduce investigative burdens"
during a review of immigration procedures. The message is unmistakable, though:
refugees from Muslim countries riven by war and bad government have been singled
out for punishment. They can look elsewhere for shelter. When the doors open
again, refugees' place in line will be determined by their religion.

Anyone concluding that the executive order is consistent with America's best
values, or those of liberal democracy more generally, is unlikely to modify
their view on the basis of an indignant editorial. The order speaks plainly and
leaves those who read it to make a plain judgment. This newspaper can only point
out that the US has long been the world's strongest voice for freedom of
conscience and human dignity, and note, with alarm and sorrow, that Mr Trump has
departed violently from that tradition.

As unambiguous as the ethical issues are, the construction of the order and its
implications bear analysis. It is striking in its arbitrariness. None of the
attackers from the 9/11, Orlando, San Bernardino or Boston attacks came from the
countries picked out. If Mr Trump is concerned about countries whose nationals
have been involved in recent atrocities, the absence of nations such as Saudi
Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Pakistan is hard to explain. That the
president has business interests in several of the countries notably omitted,
and in none of the ones included, lends the list no legitimacy. It appears to
consist of states excluded from an Obama administration visa waiver programme.
Why that group would be chosen in the current context is mysterious.

The order was not heralded by a detailed speech nor justified by a cogent
explanation when it landed. The heads of the departments of state, defence and
homeland security, and the director of the Central Intelligence Agency are
barely in their seats. It appears from their silence on the topic that they had
little to do with the drafting of the order, in which their departments are
deeply implicated. The administration, it seems, is making it up as it goes
along, and is in a great hurry. This is a terrible combination.

Fighting extremism with illiberalism has dangerous consequences. Iraqis, now
tarred as enemies of the US, will see Iran as a more natural ally. Syrian
Christians, to pick but one vulnerable group, will now be more natural targets
of anti-American sentiment. Isis has been handed a propaganda victory. Little
Trumps in the developing world will take the lead from the US's newfound
indifference to basic fairness.

No leader outside of the administration can justify responding with silence.
Talk of President Trump making a state visit to Britain should be off the table
while the order remains in place. Chief executives, who have been compliant as
the president has bullied them about their global operations, should speak up .
Their voices should count with a president focused on the economy. Most
importantly, the world waits to see how much the Republican Congress is prepared
to take before it puts principle ahead of party.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2017 The Financial Times Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved
Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the
                                      web.


                              876 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            January 30, 2017 Monday

Utah refugees feel the sting of Trump's executive order

BYLINE: By Mariah Noble The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: POLITICS; News; State

LENGTH: 1136 words


It's been a year and three months since Ibrahim Abdalla has seen his wife, and
after an executive order Friday, he's not sure when they'll meet again.

Abdalla, 54, of West Valley City, fled from his genocide-plagued homeland of
Sudan in 1998, and after living for years in a Jordanian refugee camp, he was
admitted to the United States in 2004. He worked to become a U.S. citizen and
establish a life here, opening an ethnic grocery store in Salt Lake City with
his cousin. In October 2015, he took a trip overseas to get married.

After returning to America, he's spent time working to bring his wife here and
start their new life together.

Then, on Friday, President Donald Trump signed the order suspending refugee
admissions for 120 days, placing an indefinite ban on immigrants from Syria and
a 90-day ban on people from Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen.

"This is hard for me, [not knowing] how she will come," Abdalla said Saturday.
"I'm wondering how can we get my wife. ... I don't see how she can come."

Things had seemed to be moving along for Abdalla's wife, he said. She had her
interview at the U.S. Embassy and submitted her passport to U.S. officials in
November ccccc generally the last step in the process before a visa is granted.

For three months, she's waited to get her passport back and heard nothing,
Abdalla said.

Even if she is granted a visa, he said, the executive order could stand in the
way of her journey.

Abdalla has a meeting this week with attorney Brian Tanner, who says he has
several clients in a similar situation.

One woman from Somalia ccc now a U.S. citizen ccc has been separated from her
son for 12 years, after he was mistakenly listed as a nephew or stepson instead
of a biological son on papers and denied admittance to the U.S., Tanner said.

The son was born after his mother fled Somalia, Tanner said, but because of the
lack of birthright citizenship in East African countries, he's a citizen of a
Somalia ccc a country in which he's never stepped foot.

Tanner submitted papers last week for the son to come to the United States, he
said, but under Trump's executive order, the son's citizenship disqualifies him
from joining his mother, forcing him to continue living in and out of refugee
camps ccc as he has for the past decade.

"We're really worried that they won't be able to see each other again," Tanner
said.

Aden Batar, the refugee-resettlement and immigration director for Catholic
Community Services of Utah, feels disheartened as he watches the United States
close its doors on refugees.

Batar came to the U.S. from Somalia 23 years ago.

"Refugees from those countries, they cannot go back," he said. "I'm originally
from Somalia, [but] Utah is my home because I still can't go back."

The refugee-resettlement program "saves lives," he added, and it doesn't put
national security at risk. Asha Parekh, director for Utah Refugee Services in
the Department of Workforce Services, said the office has already heard
"increased concerns" from refugees over what might happen as a result of the
executive order.

"We cannot turn our backs on those refugees who are already here," Parekh said.
"Part of our state's heritage is to accept people who have been persecuted and
driven out of their home. That is Utah."

There's a sense of uneasiness among refugees, Parekh said, as reports of
bullying and persecution have grown over the last year.

Refugees have been arriving in Utah every week, Batar said, but the ban will
change that. While immigrants were detained at airports elsewhere in the
country, there was no indication that had occurred in Salt Lake City. The U.S.
Department of Homeland Security, which was fielding calls from reporters, did
not answer several phone calls Saturday from The Salt Lake Tribune.

Since resettlement programs began in the 1970s, Utah has accepted 60,000
refugees from 50 countries, Batar said. The new executive order is "devastating"
for them.

The Trump administration should look at the situation in a "humane way," Batar
said, adding that Congress has a responsibility to fulfill past commitments to
accept refugees.

"Our president needs to get the right information," he said. "He needs to go
visit the refugee camps and see how they live."

Refugees have been victims themselves, he said, experiencing torture, bombings
and loss of loved ones firsthand. Refugees are already carefully vetted, he
said, and become contributing members of U.S. society.

"Different consular officers and the refugee-resettlement people do the best job
possibly can to verify that people are truly fearing for their lives," Tanner
said.

Refugee visas aren't easy to come by, he added, and if people truly were intent
on causing problems for the United States, they could find an easier way to do
it.

"The idea of going and trying to sneak into a refugee camp and essentially
languishing there under really terrible conditions for months and months and
months, and then doing it under the pretense of 'I'm going to trick people into
thinking I'm a refugee when really I'm just wanting to hurt people' ccc it's
ludicrous," Tanner said. "People have way better things to with their time than
just hang out in really substandard living conditions."

Keeping refugees out "is not American. That is not who we are," Batar said. "
Refugees need our help. We're a nation of immigrants and refugees, and we can't
turn our backs on them."

Coming to the United States "saved" Batar and his family, he said. "Now I'm
member of community. I'm a law-abiding citizen."

He says he's also frustrated that the United States is detaining people who have
worked as interpreters for the military overseas, and he's concerned how it will
affect the world's view of the nation.

"If we send them back, what message would that send? Who's going to work with
our forces?" Batar said. "It's not making America safe."

Utah will continue to provide support and services to refugees who are already
here, Parekh said, and will try to "quell fears" by making sure they know their
rights and where to report harassment.

"There is a lot still unknown about how President Trump's executive order is
going to affect refugees in the long term," she said. "We want to get all of the
details and information before we act."

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on Saturday issued a statement
expressing "special concern for those who are fleeing physical violence, war and
religious persecution."

"The Church," the statement went on to say, "urges all people and governments to
cooperate fully in seeking the best solutions to meet human needs and relieve
suffering."

But the unknowns have refugees worried.

Abdalla spoke to his wife three days ago, but he's worried things will be
different now. He tried calling today, but no one picked up.

He's "just waiting."

mnoble@sltrib.com

Twitter: @mnoblenews

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              877 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            January 30, 2017 Monday

Utah refugees feel the sting of Trump's executive order

BYLINE: By Mariah Noble The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: POLITICS; News; State

LENGTH: 1136 words


It's been a year and three months since Ibrahim Abdalla has seen his wife, and
after an executive order Friday, he's not sure when they'll meet again.

Abdalla, 54, of West Valley City, fled from his genocide-plagued homeland of
Sudan in 1998, and after living for years in a Jordanian refugee camp, he was
admitted to the United States in 2004. He worked to become a U.S. citizen and
establish a life here, opening an ethnic grocery store in Salt Lake City with
his cousin. In October 2015, he took a trip overseas to get married.

After returning to America, he's spent time working to bring his wife here and
start their new life together.

Then, on Friday, President Donald Trump signed the order suspending refugee
admissions for 120 days, placing an indefinite ban on immigrants from Syria and
a 90-day ban on people from Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen.

"This is hard for me, [not knowing] how she will come," Abdalla said Saturday.
"I'm wondering how can we get my wife. ... I don't see how she can come."

Things had seemed to be moving along for Abdalla's wife, he said. She had her
interview at the U.S. Embassy and submitted her passport to U.S. officials in
November ccccc generally the last step in the process before a visa is granted.

For three months, she's waited to get her passport back and heard nothing,
Abdalla said.

Even if she is granted a visa, he said, the executive order could stand in the
way of her journey.

Abdalla has a meeting this week with attorney Brian Tanner, who says he has
several clients in a similar situation.

One woman from Somalia ccc now a U.S. citizen ccc has been separated from her
son for 12 years, after he was mistakenly listed as a nephew or stepson instead
of a biological son on papers and denied admittance to the U.S., Tanner said.

The son was born after his mother fled Somalia, Tanner said, but because of the
lack of birthright citizenship in East African countries, he's a citizen of a
Somalia ccc a country in which he's never stepped foot.

Tanner submitted papers last week for the son to come to the United States, he
said, but under Trump's executive order, the son's citizenship disqualifies him
from joining his mother, forcing him to continue living in and out of refugee
camps ccc as he has for the past decade.

"We're really worried that they won't be able to see each other again," Tanner
said.

Aden Batar, the refugee-resettlement and immigration director for Catholic
Community Services of Utah, feels disheartened as he watches the United States
close its doors on refugees.

Batar came to the U.S. from Somalia 23 years ago.

"Refugees from those countries, they cannot go back," he said. "I'm originally
from Somalia, [but] Utah is my home because I still can't go back."

The refugee-resettlement program "saves lives," he added, and it doesn't put
national security at risk. Asha Parekh, director for Utah Refugee Services in
the Department of Workforce Services, said the office has already heard
"increased concerns" from refugees over what might happen as a result of the
executive order.

"We cannot turn our backs on those refugees who are already here," Parekh said.
"Part of our state's heritage is to accept people who have been persecuted and
driven out of their home. That is Utah."

There's a sense of uneasiness among refugees, Parekh said, as reports of
bullying and persecution have grown over the last year.

Refugees have been arriving in Utah every week, Batar said, but the ban will
change that. While immigrants were detained at airports elsewhere in the
country, there was no indication that had occurred in Salt Lake City. The U.S.
Department of Homeland Security, which was fielding calls from reporters, did
not answer several phone calls Saturday from The Salt Lake Tribune.

Since resettlement programs began in the 1970s, Utah has accepted 60,000
refugees from 50 countries, Batar said. The new executive order is "devastating"
for them.

The Trump administration should look at the situation in a "humane way," Batar
said, adding that Congress has a responsibility to fulfill past commitments to
accept refugees.

"Our president needs to get the right information," he said. "He needs to go
visit the refugee camps and see how they live."

Refugees have been victims themselves, he said, experiencing torture, bombings
and loss of loved ones firsthand. Refugees are already carefully vetted, he
said, and become contributing members of U.S. society.

"Different consular officers and the refugee-resettlement people do the best job
possibly can to verify that people are truly fearing for their lives," Tanner
said.

Refugee visas aren't easy to come by, he added, and if people truly were intent
on causing problems for the United States, they could find an easier way to do
it.

"The idea of going and trying to sneak into a refugee camp and essentially
languishing there under really terrible conditions for months and months and
months, and then doing it under the pretense of 'I'm going to trick people into
thinking I'm a refugee when really I'm just wanting to hurt people' ccc it's
ludicrous," Tanner said. "People have way better things to with their time than
just hang out in really substandard living conditions."

Keeping refugees out "is not American. That is not who we are," Batar said. "
Refugees need our help. We're a nation of immigrants and refugees, and we can't
turn our backs on them."

Coming to the United States "saved" Batar and his family, he said. "Now I'm
member of community. I'm a law-abiding citizen."

He says he's also frustrated that the United States is detaining people who have
worked as interpreters for the military overseas, and he's concerned how it will
affect the world's view of the nation.

"If we send them back, what message would that send? Who's going to work with
our forces?" Batar said. "It's not making America safe."

Utah will continue to provide support and services to refugees who are already
here, Parekh said, and will try to "quell fears" by making sure they know their
rights and where to report harassment.

"There is a lot still unknown about how President Trump's executive order is
going to affect refugees in the long term," she said. "We want to get all of the
details and information before we act."

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on Saturday issued a statement
expressing "special concern for those who are fleeing physical violence, war and
religious persecution."

"The Church," the statement went on to say, "urges all people and governments to
cooperate fully in seeking the best solutions to meet human needs and relieve
suffering."

But the unknowns have refugees worried.

Abdalla spoke to his wife three days ago, but he's worried things will be
different now. He tried calling today, but no one picked up.

He's "just waiting."

mnoble@sltrib.com

Twitter: @mnoblenews

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              878 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                     The Lebanon Daily News (Pennsylvania)

                            November 27, 2015 Friday
                                   1 Edition

Guest column: United States has become nation of refuge

BYLINE: By, Clifford A. Rieders

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 827 words


Lately on Facebook there have been postings about the famous poem of Emma
Lazarus, a portion of which can be found at the Statue of Liberty. Even more
disturbing are the analogies made by some between Jewish people who were turned
away from the shores of the United States and the rest of the civilized world
while the Holocaust incinerated all of European Jewry. In the run-up to World
War II, as many Jews tried to flee Europe, the gates of every safe haven were
closed to them. Some Jews gained illegal immigration to the United States, as
well as Central and South America, and some Jews made their way to the Holy
Land; but the vast number of European Jews, like my mother's family, were
incinerated in the gas ovens of the German war machine.

As to all those Irish, Italians, and others who we did not necessarily welcome
to our shores but accepted to acquire cheap labor, we had the space and jobs to
absorb that flow. Those immigrants shared, supported and worked to enhance the
American dream. It was a different world then.

Does the analogy work today with respect to Syrians who want to come to the
United States? Syrians, of course, have their own nation, their own national
identity, and have chosen to keep a murderous regime in power. By the same
token, most Arab nations have turned away the Syrian refugees and even made the
situation worse by the civil war which they have promoted in Syria. Different
Arab factions are fighting in Iraq and Syria for their own brand of hegemony.
The Syrian refugee crisis has been created by Arabs, Syrians, and foreign
forces. The Syrian refugees have not been aided by wealthy Arab regimes, and in
fact the crisis has been encouraged by the intermeddling of those nations in the
affairs of Syria.

There are refugees all over the world, and in fact we are probably living
through one of the worst refugee crises on a worldwide basis that has been seen
perhaps in human history. In Central Africa, Sudanese Muslims are virtually
annihilating the Black population.  The United States certainly cannot be the
world's policeman, nor can it be the world's safe haven for all of these
refugees.

When Israel, in 1948, began to build its own military force, the first thing it
did was take in refugees from around the world. Jewish refugees who were kicked
out of every Arab country found a safe haven in Israel. In a number of
operations, Black Jews from Ethiopia were air-lifted en masse to Israel, where
they live successfully today. Unfortunately, other nations do not take
responsibility for their people but rather attempt to dump them on the wealthy
nations of the world.

What is the proper role of the United States in Western civilization? Should the
United States and Europe become the repository of Arab refugees, many of whom
will contain embedded terrorists? The Jews who attempted to flee Europe from
1938-1945 never harmed a fly and represented some of the greatest thinkers the
world had ever known, such as Sigmund Freud and Albert Einstein. Certainly, the
Western world and United States ought to be willing to assist the refugee crisis
in a limited and skillful way, taking refugees who will enhance the security and
prosperity of the United States rather than damaging it. The real answer,
however, lies in working with other developed nations of the world to tamp down
the civil wars which create the refugee crisis in the first place.

It now appears that the Obama administration hands-off policy on Syria was a
disaster, helping to create a crisis where 300,000+ people have died, and there
are millions of refugees. It simply seems that the isolationist policies of this
administration have resembled more pre-World War II Republican Presidents than
anything we have seen in the time since that great worldwide conflict. The
United States cannot simply stand by the sidelines, threaten red lines and then
do nothing. The Russians have done the right thing, at least picking one regime
to prop up in Syria. The United States should have been first to help keep in
power the butcher of Damascus, as well as the butcher of Baghdad and the crazy
man of Libya.

None of these views can rank as liberal or conservative. It is not a domestic
political inquiry as to whether we accept refugees into this country that we are
not prepared to handle. We have a tremendous number of our own domestic
problems: poverty, health care issues, and hunger. What we need to do is have a
reasonable and rational foreign policy that is focused on what is best for the
United States. George Washington and the other Founders of this country well
understood that our first priority as a nation was to be neutral in the disputes
of other countries, to support regimes that support the United States or at
least do not hurt us, and to be at one with our allies. That sort of policy will
get us out of trouble, will reduce the refugee crisis in the world, and will
maintain some degree of safety and sanity for the United States.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ldn


                     Copyright 2015 The Lebanon Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              879 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                      Farmington Daily Times (New Mexico)

                           November 19, 2015 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Opportunistic politicians stir fear of refugees

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 485 words


It was inevitable that the terrorism attacks in Paris last week would echo
quickly through the U.S. presidential campaign. Given the stream of nativist
rhetoric already out there, it was also inevitable that some politicians'
responses would be highly objectionable, beginning with Texas Sen. Ted Cruz's
assertion that the United States should accept only Christian refugees from the
Syrian conflict. Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush sounded a similar note, calling
for special efforts to protect Christians in the region; never mind that Islamic
State jihadists target fellow Muslims with just as much viciousness.

It's preposterous that a serious contender for the presidency of the U.S. would
bar war refugee status based on someone's religion. And the suggestion by GOP
candidate Ben Carson that the U.S. bar all Syrian refugees for fear that a
"sleeper" terrorist might slip in is an emotional, and ill-conceived,
overreaction, as are pledges by several Republican governors to resist efforts
to resettle refugees in their states.

The United States doesn't have the same challenge as Europe, whose relative
proximity to the Middle Eastern war zone has left it inundated with millions of
refugees. And the source isn't just Syria and Iraq; refugees - both political
and economic - from Africa have landed in Europe as well. There are few good
options for stopping that tide without first stabilizing the regions from which
it arises; a political solution to the Syrian civil war is a crucial first step
to achieving that stability.

We haven't faced this exodus simply because it is so much harder for Syrian
refugees to arrive at the border and seek asylum. President Barack Obama
affirmed in Turkey on Tuesday that "America has to step up and do its part" in
providing for war refugees, which presumably includes moving ahead with his plan
to accept up to 10,000 Syrian refugees this fiscal year, up from fewer than
2,000. The U.S. should take significantly more because there are too many for
Europe to absorb and because of our history as a safe haven. Nothing in the
Paris attacks changes that.

That's not to suggest that the U.S. should accept any and all comers. What the
Republican candidates ignore, though, is that there is already a system in place
to vet the refugees. To gain entry to the U.S., a Syrian refugee first must pass
rigorous screening by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, which
verifies personal backgrounds and details before recommending individuals for
resettlement to the United States. Then the Department of Homeland Security does
its own screening before a refugee is granted entry and protection.

It makes sense to be prudent and diligent when accepting refugees from a region
of such threat and instability. But it defies what the nation stands for to deny
a safe haven for the persecuted based on their faith, nation of origin, or our
fear.

Los Angeles Times, Nov. 17

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: fnm


                     Copyright 2015 Farmington Daily Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              880 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       Vallejo Times Herald (California)

                            August 28, 2014 Thursday

My Turn: The true cost of the 'war on terror'

BYLINE: Vallejo Times-Herald

SECTION: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Opinions; Opinion

LENGTH: 739 words


The true cost of

the 'war on terror'

The U.N. recently released its annual report on the world refugee crisis. More
than 51 million people have been forced to flee their homes as a result of wars
and instability. Once again, however, the report did not address a major source
of this international instability, dislocation, and hunger: U.S. foreign policy,
known here at home as the "war on terror."

This war now extends throughout the Middle East and has spread into North Africa
in our ever-expanding war to make the world safe for the multinationals. Many
Americans think these wars "keep America safe," but these wars are primarily
based on the economic and strategic interests of Wall Street, e.g., bankers, oil
and mining interests, our defense contractors and other mega-corporations.

Regrettably, concerns about the impact of war and the displacement of millions
of people remain secondary to the interests of the multinational. Rarely does
our media even mention the link between our

endless "war of terror" and the steady increase in refugees, let alone question
it.

Afghanistan, for example, has been devastated by U.S. intervention since the
'80s under President Carter. (Although successive U.S. presidents have stated
their concern for women's rights as a pretense to invade Afghanistan, when
President Carter first sent troops to that country women were educated and
worked outside the home.) Now, however, after 13 years of war and U.S.
occupation, 75 percent of the women are now illiterate.

Although the United States has spent more than $100 billion destroying the
country, and another $100 billion more on reconstruction, Afghanistan remains
one of the poorest countries on the planet, with an average annual income of
under $700. And as in all wars for empire, millions of Afghans have become
refugees.

The war in Afghanistan has spread more chaos and killing throughout the Middle
East and now our bombs have fallen on Libya, Yemen, Ethiopia and Somalia, adding
thousands more dead as "collateral damage." Thousands more have become instant
enemies of the United States and millions more have been forced to flee as
refugees.

Iraq is another example of our failed war for peace in the Middle East. Prior to
the first U.S. war on Iraq in 1991, more than half a million Iraqis, once again
mostly civilians, died under the U.S. sanctions,

another half a million were killed by our air strikes and thousands more have
been killed during our occupation. President Obama has become our fourth
president in a row to bomb Iraq. And our war in Iraq has added another 5 million
to the refugee crisis.

U.S. air strikes and increasing drone attacks in Somalia also added to the
refuge rolls and killed hundreds of Somalis. The land is devastated by our
drones operated safely from thousands of miles away by the U.S. "chair force"
from various bases in the United States. While our drones fly overhead, on the
ground the country has experienced one of the worst humanitarian crises in the
world, forcing hundreds of thousands more to flee their homes as refugees.
(Consider how many millions of Somalis could have been fed with the millions of
dollars our government has wasted bombing that poor country.)

As our "war on terror" expands, we've now destabilized the entire Middle East
and the drive for world resource domination continues to entrap millions more
innocent refugees. Those that are not forced to flee their countries are trapped
in billions of dollars of international indebtedness to many of the same U.S.
banking interests that continue here at home to gut social services, drive down
wages and destroy unions, destroy the environment, and bankrupt our educational
system.

As 51 million refugees are forced to flee their homes, it's time to examine the
connection between the history of our failed foreign policies and the exploding
refugee crisis. It's time to stop the killing. The world as had enough of U.S.
plunder.

Beverly Mcgain/Vallejo

Writing us

Letters to the Times-Herald must contain the first and last name of the letter
writer, as well as contact information to reach the letter writer. he
Times-Herald advises letters to be 400 words or fewer and based on one topic.
Longer letters will be considered for separate publication in an op-ed format.

The Times-Herald encourages letters to be sent via email:
opinion@timesheraldonline.com Mail to: Letters, Vallejo Times-Herald, 440
Curtola Parkway, Vallejo, CA, 94590.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 The Times-Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                              881 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                       Financial Times (London, England)

                              July 28, 2014 Monday

Refugee who fled Nasser's Egypt to become pioneer in antivirals

BYLINE: Clive Cookson

SECTION: FT REPORT - FT HEALTH: COMBATING HEPATITIS C; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 937 words



HIGHLIGHT: Profile

Raymond Schinazi

A penchant for science has paid off, says Clive Cookson


The life of Raymond Schinazi has been a remarkable personal and scientific
journey. His childhood began in a mercantile Jewish family in Alexandria, Egypt,
continued in an Italian refugee camp and finished at an English boarding school.

His student days at Bath university led to postdoctoral research at Yale and
then an astonishing flourishing as a virologist at Emory university in Atlanta.

Today, Dr Schinazi has a string of distinguished academic appointments and an
unrivalled record in founding biotech companies to commercialise research in
antiviral drugs.

He personally had a hand in discovering and developing several key treatments
for HIV and hepatitis C. These include Gilead's Sovaldi, which has had the
best-selling debut in pharmaceutical history: sales hit $5.8bn in the first half
of 2014.

His origins were a world away in 1950s Egypt, where Alexandria in particular
retained some of the cosmopolitan tolerance of the old Middle East. That
disappeared with the strident nationalism of Gamal Abdel Nasser and the Suez
crisis of 1956.

The Schinazis, like other Sephardic families in Egypt, had all their possessions
"sequestered" in the early 1960s, he says. With their Italian passports they
fled to a refugee camp near Naples.

There they regrouped and, using family contacts, dispersed. "My father found a
job in Spain but he wanted me to go to England," he says.

"Jewish organisations in England turned us down because we were Sephardic and
they preferred to help Ashkenazi Jews, but we found a British charity that had
money from the nationalisation of British schools in Egypt, so I went to Carmel
College in Oxfordshire. I had a penchant for science because my uncle [André
Nahmias] was already a famous herpes virologist working in the US," Dr Schinazi
adds. "Even at the age of 10, I knew what herpes simplex virus was."

He remained in the UK to study chemistry at Bath, first as an undergraduate and
then completing a PhD in 1976 on a plant-derived anticancer drug called
ellipticine. In the process he learned a lesson in scientific
compartmentalisation. "My boss wouldn't let me finish my PhD until we had sent
enough material to NIH [the National Institutes of Health, the US biomedical
research agency] for screening," he says.

"That was sad because we had a pharmacology lab in the building above us."
Another frustration from that time, which Dr Schinazi says persists to this day,
"is that chemists often don't know what to do next when they find some
pharmacological activity in a compound".

His next step was across the Atlantic to Yale's pharmacology department, where
he began postdoctoral work in nucleoside chemistry, the field in which he has
become a world leader. Nucleosides are chemical building blocks of the nucleic
acids, DNA and RNA, which carry genetic information in all living things.

Nucleoside analogues - synthetic chemicals structurally similar to nucleosides -
have become important antiviral drugs: when the virus takes up the chemical,
this jams its DNA or RNA synthesis and prevents replication.

Dr Schinazi enjoyed the science but not the weather at Yale. "We had two really
cold winters in a row in New Haven, with tons and tons of snow, so I decided to
move further south," he says. The destination was the state of Georgia, and
Emory, where he joined his virologist uncle Professor Nahmias to work on herpes
treatments.

The lab's attention soon turned to HIV as researchers scrambled to find a way to
stop the virus that was causing the 1980s Aids epidemic. Dr Schinazi was one of
the first researchers to advocate nucleoside analogues as anti-HIV treatments.
He played a key role in developing the drug combinations used successfully to
treat the disease today. The discovery in 1989 of hepatitis C virus and the
threat of its causing an epidemic of liver disease led Dr Schinazi to devote his
attention to HCV while continuing to work on HIV. He says the NIH turned down
his applications for HCV project funding but he turned that to his advantage, by
founding Pharmasset, a biotech company focusing on hepatitis C, in 1998. In 2011
Gilead bought Pharmasset for $11bn on the promise of Sovaldi.

Dr Schinazi has founded or co-founded five virology companies including Triangle
Pharmaceuticals, focusing on HIV and hepatitis B and bought by Gilead in 2003,
and Idenix Pharmaceuticals, another hepatitis C company, for which Merck bid
$3.85bn last month.

"Almost the whole of Gilead's portfolio comes from Emory or Atlanta area
companies that I founded," he says proudly.

Dr Schinazi, 63, is working flat out as a virologist in a range of academic
positions. Besides his primary post as director of Emory's Laboratory of
Biochemical Pharmacology, his appointments include Yerkes National Primate
Research Centre, Georgia State University and Atlanta Department of Veterans
Affairs. His main corporate interest now is RFS Pharma, a private company in
suburban Atlanta.

He retains a professional and indeed emotional interest in the country of his
birth, because Egypt happens to have the world's highest prevalence of hepatitis
C - an unfortunate side-effect of a public health campaign to rid the country of
the parasitic disease schistosomiasis during the 1960s and 70s, which spread
infection because needles were not sterilised properly. Gilead has offered to
supply the Egyptian government with Sovaldi at a price equivalent to $900 for a
curative course of treatment, little more than 1 per cent of the US cost.

"What is happening there is very sad," Dr Schinazi says, "but the irony is that
this Jewish boy from Egypt has invented a drug [Sovaldi] that can save the
Egyptians."

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved
Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the
                                      web.


                              882 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                  Vineyard Gazette (Edgartown, Massachusetts)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                                 March 14, 2014

Vineyard Woman Honored for Promoting Womens Rights

BYLINE: Vineyard Gazette staff

LENGTH: 427  words


Anita Botti of West Tisbury was honored last month by the Washington, D.C.
chapter of the National Organization of Italian American Women as one of the
organization's three Women of the Year. Ms. Botti recently retired from being
chief of staff and principal deputy in former Secretary of State Hilary
Clinton's Office of Global Women's Issues. During those four years, she worked
with Secretary Clinton promoting the rights of women globally and recently
completed the transition work for the Women's Issues office for Secretary of
State John Kerry. This is Ms. Botti's third retirement from government service.

In 2006, she and her husband Paul Magid moved year-round to the Vineyard, where
they had long owned a summer home. At the time, Ms. Botti had recently retired
from the State Department. During her tenure, she served on President Clinton's
Interagency Council on Women and chaired the U.S. Interagency Task Force on
Trafficking in Human Beings. While serving in this position, she worked closely
with the First Lady and Melanie Verveer, Mrs. Clinton's chief of staff, to
promote legislation to prevent human traifficking. Once Mrs. Clinton had become
Secretary of State, Ms. Botti was asked to join the Office on Global Women's
Issues that Mrs. Clinton had created.

Ms. Botti began her career with the Department of State in 1995 in the Bureau of
Population, Refugees and Migration that brought some 100,000 refugees to this
country. She also worked with the United Nations High Commissioner's staff to
develop protective guidelines and programs for unaccompanied child refugees
living in refugee camps.

She began her career in public service in the Peace Corps in the 1960s when she
was assigned to work in a mental hospital on St. Vincent in the British West
Indies. When she returned to the United States, she continued work with the
Peace Corps, working as desk officer for the Caribbean at first, then as deputy
director of the Latin American Region and finally as director of management at
Peace Corps headquarters in Washington. It was at Peace Corps headquarters in
Washington that she met her husband, a former Peace Corps volunteer in Africa,
who by then was working as a legal advisor in the Peace Corps central office.
When she was not with the State Department or the Peace Corps, Ms. Botti and her
husband were rearing two children.

She embarked on her latest "retirement" by spending three weeks traveling in
India. She and her husband then planned to join fellow Vineyarders Soo Whiting
and Flip Harrington on a bird-watching tour in Chile.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Agriculture

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: VYG

                      Copyright 2014 SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                               All Rights Reserved
                             SmallTownPapers, Inc.
                        Copyright 2014 Vineyard Gazette


                              883 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                       Financial Times (London, England)

                           October 16, 2013 Wednesday
                                London Edition 1

Refugees caught in transit trap during 'political maelstrom';
Resettlement

BYLINE: Anjli Raval in New York

SECTION: US POLITICS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 387 words


Thousands of refugees from countries including Iraq, Somalia and Myanmar have
had their resettlement to the US frozen as the messy fallout of the government
shutdown extends outside of the nation's borders, writes Anjli Raval in New York
.

The state department halted its refugee rehousing programme after Congress's
inability to strike a budget deal partially closed the government on October 1
and crippled the financial and medical support systems that help refugees once
they arrive in the US.

"Refugees are caught up in the political maelstrom in Washington," said David
Miliband, chief executive of the International Rescue Committee and former
British foreign secretary. "These are people who have fled war, political
oppression, religious persecution. They have been living in limbo in refugee
camps and urban settings, some for as long as decades."

The organisation estimates that up to 6,000 individuals who have been approved
to come to the US will be affected by the shutdown. About 70,000 displaced
people from more than 60 countries are brought to the US each year.

Amissa Francoise fled bloodshed and famine in the Democratic Republic of Congo
in 1990.

Her father was kidnapped and her elder brother was killed by a rival tribe,
prompting the family to move to the slums of Burundi's capital.

"After many years of suffering . . . a priest told us we should apply for
refugee status to the US," she said. While Ms Francoise arrived in her home in
Boise, Idaho in June after a long wait her family did not follow as planned on
October 9.

They were among the hundreds who sold their possessions and left home in
anticipation of a flight to the US and have been caught in the transit trap.
"I'm worrying very much about my family. I don't know where they are now," she
said.

About 80 per cent of resettlements are family reunifications.

Even when the shutdown ends, the earliest the refugee travel moratorium could
lift is October 28, aid agencies say.

As Senate leaders close in on a deal the wait continues for individuals like
55-year- old Ulda Rodrigues from Cuba.

"Freedom of speech and religious freedom were the reasons why we wanted to come
to America," said Ms Rodrigues, who has been persecuted for many years for being
a Jehovah's Witness.

"I'm so close, but I fear we're going backwards. I can't bare it any more."

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 The Financial Times Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved
Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the
                                      web.


                              884 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                        Macarthur Chronicle (Australia)

                             June 22, 2010 Tuesday
                            1 - Campbelltown Edition

Giving refugees a chance

BYLINE: VERA BERTOLA

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 453  words


A decision to give refugees some experience at his family nursery has earned
Warren Downes a humanitarian award, reports VERA BERTOLA.

TRAVEL opened Warren Downes' eyes to the world.

As a young man, the Camden-raised Downes spent five years satisfying his
wanderlust. He swept in and out of the family home in search of adventures and
he had many.

``I visited 26 countries across Africa, the United States, Canada and Alaska,''
he said.

Some of his more rewarding experiences were staying with an African family in
the bush ``no tour guides'' and linking with the bedouins in Egypt.

One thing that stuck in his mind, Downes said, was that it appeared to him the
less people had (materially) the happier they seemed.

Fast forward 20 years or so, and Downes' life has hit a level of routine and
balance.

He is married to Victoria, has two littlies April and Lucas, works at the family
business Downes Wholesale Nursery, at Theresa Park, runs a side business
emarketsolutions.com.au . . . and is generally satisfied with his lot.

But about 10 months ago, his overseas experiences came flooding back when he
took a phone call from Centrelink asking if the business was in a position to
give some refugees work experience.

``They rang out of the blue wanting to know if we could give Karen refugees,
from Burma, work experience, two days each,'' Downes said.

``They come from agricultural backgrounds so were suited to this type of work.

``They came, they were super happy and they worked hard.

``At the time a few of our Aussie workers commented on how quick they worked.''

Downes Wholesale Nursery gave 13 refugees two days each of work experience then,
because of their outstanding work ethic and ease at integrating, took on six
full-time.

Downes, 39, said the Karens wouldn't have been taken on ``if they couldn't do
the work'' but, he admitted, he was impressed by their enduring smiles and
satisfaction with the simple things in life.

They were the same inspiring qualities he'd observed in Africa and Egypt.

``I guess that's where it came from, giving people a chance,'' he said.

``I'm empathetic, but it also had to be viable.''

But Downes' willingness to give the Karens a go has been noted at the highest
level.

The NSW Service for the Treatment and Rehabilitation of Torture and Trauma
Survivors presented him with a humanitarian award on the weekend for his work
with refugees.

The presentation was part of Refugee Week, which continues until Saturday.

Downes is pleased with the recognition but quick to qualify the mutual benefits
of the arrangements.

``It's not that difficult to help people who want to help themselves. The Karen
people are just lovely; they've always got huge smiles,'' he said. ``And they
are work machines.''

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CCG


                   Copyright 2010 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              885 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                              May 28, 2010 Friday

Together again: Six Somali refugee children finally come home to Utah

BYLINE: By Julia Lyon The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; State

LENGTH: 1169 words


Five years after painfully leaving his children behind in Kenya, believing they
would soon follow him to America, refugee Yusuf Shaali sat at the Salt Lake City
International Airport and learned their plane was late. Six of his children were
traveling more than 9,000 miles for a much-belated reunion that had required
lawyers and DNA samples, patience and faith.

Not every family is so fortunate. In 2008, the United States froze its family
reunification program for refugees amid allegations of fraud, particularly from
Africa, the source of nearly all requests to join relatives in America.

By 11 p.m. Thursday night, Shaali was anxious. He had never expected to live so
long in Utah without his children crowding the house.

--

'You're not living.' » Nearly two decades ago, during Somalia's civil war,
Shaali's growing family would lie awake at night waiting for raiders to smash
the door in with a gun. The rice, corn, sugar and salt were in as much demand as
the chairs. "They took everything, down to a glass," he recalled through an
interpreter.

Marauders twice cut a watch off Shaali's wrist. They put a gun to his head and
demanded money even when he had nothing left.

How many times? He can't count. Temporary nomads, they traveled from village to
village by boat on the Indian Ocean: always running. "You're not living,"
recalled his eldest daughter, Fatima Mustafa.

One night she fled with her sister Maryan, and, in the chaos, was separated from
her parents for several years. The family managed to reunite with the girls in
Kenya, where Shaali decided to move because their country had grown too
dangerous. By then, two of his sons had been shot and killed while trying to
escape Somalia by boat.

In Kenya, they were so poor sometimes the family woke up without food in the
house. Hoping to start over in America, the family began to arrive like links in
a chain. In Utah they were joining hundreds of other Somali refugees, the
state's largest refugee resettlement group over the past decade. More than 1,400
Somalis have resettled here since 2000.

First in 2000 came Fatima's husband, Said Mohamed. Three years later, Fatima
arrived with her three boys and petitioned for her parents and siblings to
follow. In 2005, Shaali interviewed with U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services. Confusion over his three marriages and an error in his children's
names led officials to offer only him and his current wife the chance to come to
Utah.

They balked, but were persuaded the separation from the 10 living children from
two marriages would be short.

--

Still waiting » On Thursday, the day the family's prayers were answered, Fatima
stood in the kitchen, preparing a celebratory feast. For the past six days, she
and her mother, Halima Hassan, had worked steadily, mixing and baking a dish per
day. Fatima dropped a triangle of dough into boiling vegetable oil and waited
for the sambusa, a pastry stuffed with carrots, potatoes and onions, to cook.

She had collapsed in exhaustion the evening before after several excited,
sleepless nights. A 3 a.m. inventory shift at Walmart, where she stacks fruit
and vegetables in the produce department, contributed to her fatigue.

As she cooked, her father taught Swahili at a community center nearby, awaiting
the children's 11:06 p.m. arrival time.

More than once, this day had seemed impossible. Staff at Catholic Community
Services of Utah, which helps resettle refugees, helped the parents apply for
the children a few months after they arrived in Salt Lake City. Federal
officials asked for more evidence and the case inched forward. Nearly a year
later, nine of the children were interviewed at the U.S. embassy in Nairobi. One
daughter had died of malaria while waiting.

More questions arose about inconsistencies in the children's stories regarding
mosques and madrasas, or schools. More than two years passed.

"It was heartbreaking," said Alyssa Williams, an immigration attorney at CCS.
"We were put in the unenviable position of having to explain to a mom and dad
the bureaucracy that was keeping a family separated."

While the paperwork stalled, two children drowned. And another, an older son,
died in his sleep.

Shaali agreed to DNA testing, thinking it would jump start the case. A testing
kit was sent by Federal Express to Kenya, where the children's cheeks were
swabbed. The samples were returned to the United States, leaving Shaali with
hundreds of dollars in bills CCS donors helped him pay.

Years ago, family reunifications made up 20 to 30 percent of the refugees who
came to Utah each year through CCS, estimated Aden Batar, refugee resettlement
director. That number has dropped to about 5 percent or less.

"We have thousands and thousands of families [in the U.S.] who are here and are
waiting to hear when the family reunification program will reopen," he said.

The program, which had been able to confirm a biological link to claimed
relatives in fewer than 20 percent of cases, remains under review by federal
officials.

--

Arrival » Though they had an uncle nearby, the surviving six children -- now
ranging from age 10 to 22 -- primarily lived on their own in the house they once
shared with their parents. The family in Utah sent money to support them. When a
relative married last summer, the parents and Fatima traveled back to Africa for
the event. But they had to leave the children behind once again.

Shaali wanted them home, with the chance to go to school in America. In Kenya,
"if you don't have the money to pay the fee, the kids get nothing," the father
said.

Finally, in a single phone call, everything changed. Science had proven this
family's connections were real.

More than 30 family and friends stood in the arrival hall at the Salt Lake City
airport Thursday night. The women's heads were wrapped in a rainbow of scarlet
and periwinkle cloth. Playful cousins and brothers rode the escalator while
mothers hovered.

Suddenly, 10-year-old Rahma Mustafa sprinted down the airport hall, a streak of
electric purple, her arms spread like wings aimed toward her father. Grief and
joy was in their embrace.

The five other children --Mustafa, Maryan, Abdulahi, Abukar and Farhiya --
poured out behind her as the family swirled. No one held up balloons or signs to
proclaim the gravity of the event. Few pictures were taken. They were ready to
go home. Together.

As Shaali and his youngest daughter walked to the parking lot under a full moon,
she stayed close, her eyes large, her hand finally in his.

jlyon@sltrib.com Alt Heads:

Together again: Six Somali refugee children finally come home to Utah What is a
refugee?

Unlike any other immigrant, a refugee is brought to this country by the U.S.
State Department after being identified as someone fleeing his or her country
due to persecution, or a well-founded fear of persecution, on account of race,
religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group or political
opinion.

The U.S. will resettle as many as 80,000 refugees in America this fiscal year.
More than 1,000 will be sent to Utah.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: After five years, knowing that his children were finally in Utah was a
joyous occasion for Somali refugee Yusuf Shaali, left, at Salt Lake City
International Airport Thursday night. His youngest daughter, Rahma Mustafa, is
in purple. His son Abukar Mustafa, center, embraces a well-wisher. To his right
are siblings Abdulahi Mustafa and Maryan Mustafa, who have also just arrived.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              886 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                             May 20, 2010 Thursday

Black roots music takes center stage at Living Traditions Festival

BYLINE: By David Burger The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: FRIDAY MIX; Entertainment; Features

LENGTH: 722 words


The Salt Lake City Arts Council's 25th Living Traditions Festival annually
spotlights Utah's traditional folk and ethnic arts, with a festival lineup that
also includes nationally touring acts.

This year's headliners include the Carolina Chocolate Drops and Sierra Leone
Refugee All Stars, each performing black roots music drawing upon musical
influences that can be traced back to western Africa.

"I want to make sure they come from a tradition," said Casey Jarman, festival
director, about the touring bands who play at Living Traditions. "It's a good
tool for presenting an art form we don't have here."

At first glance, the bands don't appear to have much in common.

The Carolina Chocolate Drops were formed in 2005 following three young
musicians' attendance at the Black Banjo Gathering in Boone, N.C. Dom Flemons,
Rhiannon Giddens and Justin Robinson were all in their 20s when the group
formed, and each sings and plays different instruments. But the banjo united
them, Flemons said.

That's in contrast with the founding story of the Sierra Leone Refugee All
Stars. The band was formed by refugees displaced to Guinea during the Sierra
Leone Civil War that raged from 1991 to 2002, killing tens of thousands and
displacing more than 2 million people.

Seven musicians who met in the camps banded together. An influential 2005
documentary told their story, following the musicians for three years as they
moved between various camps. The film ends with their return home, where the
group recorded its first studio album, "Living Like a Refugee."

Now the band tours the world to entertain, of course, but also to raise
awareness of systemic problems that plague their continent.

Bluegrass played with the banjo usually conjures images of older white men
singing "high and lonesome," but banjos first came to North America on slave
ships. In its modern form, the banjo was adapted from several traditional
African instruments, and many scholars believe the name of the instrument comes
from the Kimbundu term mbanza .

Over the years, the banjo was adopted by white musicians, drawn to the way the
versatile instrument could be used for the fast arpeggiated plucking that serves
as one of the foundations of Appalachian and Midwestern bluegrass tunes.

In recent years, fewer black bands have used the banjo. The instrument has a lot
of baggage, Flemons said, "particularly with blacks in the older generation."

He and his bandmates weren't intending to reclaim the instrument for black
musicians, even if that might have happened through their music. Instead, the
trio began backing back old-time fiddler Joe Thompson. From him, the young
musicians learned traditional folk songs of the Piedmont region of North and
South Carolina, and then expanded their repertoire to also play bluegrassy
versions of hip-hop songs.

The slaves who brought banjo-like instruments to America came from western
Africa. That's where the musicians who formed the Refugee All Stars were raised,
growing up influenced by their homeland's musical heritage.

Black Nature is the rapper of the group. He found himself in a refugee camp
after being orphaned at an early age: His parents were killed in his country's
civil war.

"It's a really, really beautiful country full of talented people, peaceful
people," Nature said from his new home in San Francisco about his native land.
"It's a rich country, culturally. ... Sierra Leone is getting back to where it
was."

The group released its latest album, "Rise & Shine," in late March. The music
was recorded in Sierra Leone and New Orleans, where the food and climate
reminded Nature of his homeland.

For Utah music fans, the thread of a common heritage ties the two groups' music
together, in the same way the annual Living Traditions Festival seeks to bind us
all by celebrating cultural traditions.

dburger@sltrib.com Alt Heads:

Black roots music takes center stage at Living Traditions Festival Living
Traditions Festival

The festival returns for a 25th year.

When » Friday, 5 to 10 p.m.; Saturday, noon to 10 p.m.; Sunday, noon to 7 p.m.

Where » Washington Square, Salt Lake City & County Building, 450 S. 200 East

Tickets » Free

Acts » Sierra Leone All Stars (Saturday at 7 p.m., North Stage), Carolina
Chocolate Drops (Sunday at 5:30 p.m., North Stage), and others

Complete schedule info » www.slcgov.com/arts/livingtraditions

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The band Carolina Chocolate Drops.
The Sierra Leone All Stars.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              887 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            February 9, 2010 Tuesday

Refugee groups grow roots with folk grants

BYLINE: By Julia Lyon The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 540 words


West Valley City » When you're a refugee from Africa, putting on a traditional
dance performance can require buying costumes and instruments from thousands of
miles away. The drums come from Rwanda , the goatskin costumes from Kenya.

This year, the bill could be paid, in part, with help from the state of Utah.

Some of the newest recipients of state folk arts grants are two African dance
and music groups that hope to strengthen their community and pass down tradition
through the singing and dancing that reminds them of home. Folk grant recipients
don't get much money from the state -- a few hundred or a couple thousand
dollars, depending on the group -- but that's enough to make an enormous
difference for people who may be living on Utah's economic margins.

Many of the young dancers in The Best of Africa Cultural Group have parents who
don't own cars, don't have driver's licenses or work at night, so it's up to the
organizers to pick the children up. The grant will help pay for gas for a group
that hopes to keep kids away from gangs and drugs. If they had more money,
they'd like to buy a van.

"These kids, when they get here in America they start changing their behavior,"
said Valentine Mukundente, who co-founded the group. "I want them to remember
where they came from."

Because many refugee children come to America when they are very young, they
don't always have a chance to learn about their native traditions before they
arrive.

On Monday evening, 10 girls twirled their hands, rolled their hips and jumped
lightly to the pounding music at the Utah Cultural Center in West Valley City.
They looked completely at ease. On Thursday, they will perform at a school in
Draper for students learning about Africa.

Many of the dancers' parents, who are refugees from Burundi and Rwanda, are
still learning about America. Mukundente wants to find a space to offer
workshops for the newcomers, to teach them about everything from AIDS to
domestic violence. Even something as basic as a sandwich might be a new concept.

A few miles away, members of the small Didinga community, which has only a few
dozen people in Utah, recalled how tribal members came together from all over
the country to perform last summer in Boulder, Colo. Even in Sudan, the group
continues to scatter as people leave their drought-plagued villages looking for
food.

Now in America, the Didinga work whatever jobs they can, often giving up school
in order to pay the rent. Playing music reminds them of who they were before
years of war transformed them into refugees.

"It's from a thousand years ago," said Regina Mark. "We feel like we're at
home."

And their goal is not just cultural. In addition to performing, the Didinga hope
to raise money to send to the people they left behind in Africa.

"They keep on calling us all the time asking for money," said Aurelio Irio, who
created a Web site to educate the public about the Didingas' suffering. Friends
and family call from Africa describing starvation and death.

"One dollar can make a difference," he said.

jlyon@sltrib.com Want to help or find out more?

To contact The Best of Africa Cultural Group, call (801) 706-1227. To contact
the Didinga Community Association, call 801-738-9369 or go to
http://mydidinga.org .

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sudanese refugees recently received state money to support DiDinga
music and dance. They were able to purchase materials for their costumes and
instruments with the money.
Aurelio Irio, a Sudanese refugee, recently received state money to support the
DiDinga music and dance group he is involved in. They were able to purchase
materials for costumes and instruments with the money. Here Auereilio Irio,
left, gets together with his daughter Yvonne Auerelio, 1, and friends Grace
Lokwany, Regina Mark, and Kamilo Philip to sing and dance in a South Salt Lake
Apartment.
Aurelio Irio, a Sudanese refugee, recently received state money to support the
DiDinga music and dance group he is involved in. They were able to purchase
materials for costumes and instruments with the money. Here Auereilio Irio,
left, gets together with his daughter Yvonne Auerelio, 1, and friends Grace
Lokwany, Regina Mark, and Kamilo Philip to sing and dance in a South Salt Lake
Apartment.
Aurelio Irio, a Sudanese refugee, recently received state money to support the
DiDinga music and dance group he is involved in. They were able to purchase
materials for costumes and instruments with the money.
A Sudanese refugee, recently received state money to support the DiDinga music
and dance group They were able to purchase materials for costumes and
instruments with the money. Kamilo Philip plays a handmade lamellophone or
"thumb piano" , one of the insturments the dance group uses.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              888 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            August 13, 2009 Thursday
                                 First Edition

'Considerate, she put others first';
KOKODA TRADEGY - HANNAH KINROSS

BYLINE: ANDRA JACKSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 181 words


HANNAH Kinross, 22, was a passionate person who threw herself into working with
refugees and street kids, her mother, Sue, said.

During her gap year, Ms Kinross went to South Africa and worked in a home for
street children. She had nearly completed a degree in health promotion at Deakin
University when she was offered a job with the Migrant Information Centre in Box
Hill as a refugee pathways worker, and had spent the past 18 months working with
Burmese and Sudanese refugees.

Mrs Kinross said her daughter was passionate about her work. She had helped 17
young refugees join the Croydon City Arrows Soccer Club. She was also the
co-ordinator of a Sudanese Australian Integrated Learning Program in Dandenong.

Ms Kinross was working and studying full-time. She also had a taste for
adventure, having travelled to South America, Thailand, the United States and
Canada.

Friends described her as a considerate person who put others first. On her
Facebook page, her parents wrote: "We would to thank all of her friends around
the world for being part of her wonderful life." -- ANDRA JACKSON

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              889 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       Financial Times (London, England)

                              July 4, 2008 Friday
                                London Edition 1

Zimbabweans flee to US embassy

SECTION: WORLD NEWS DIGEST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 48 words


Hundreds of Zimbabwean refugees last night converged on the US embassy in Harare
after fleeing the headquarters of the country's opposition.

The Movement for Democratic Change said that at least 200 displaced people had
set up camp outside the US compound. FT Reporters Full story: www.ft.com

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 The Financial Times Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              890 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                           Greeley Tribune (Colorado)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             May 15, 2008 Thursday

EDITORIAL: 'Give me your tired, your poor...'

BYLINE: Greeley Tribune, Colo.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 434 words


May 15--Refugees come here for the same things we all want from life: safety, a
good job and the chance to build a better life for their families.

"I like so much the U.S.," said Abdiqadir Jama, 20, one of about 300 refugees
from East Africa, mostly Somalis, who have begun to call Greeley home. "A lot of
opportunity. You can do anything you want."

This new population of Somali citizens has moved to Greeley and many of them
have found work at the JBS Swift & Co. meat packing plant. Many are refugees
from a war-torn homeland. Many don't speak the language or know our customs. We
hope the Greeley community will embrace these new residents and make them feel
welcome.

The Somalis, like refugees from varied backgrounds before them, have come to
Greeley for the opportunities it offers. Their presence, however, is not just
about opportunities for them, it is also an opportunity for all of us. It is an
opportunity to grow and expand our world. The essential strength of America is
the country's ability to embrace the best of many cultures.

While the customs that come from half a world away can seem scary, they will --
like the customs of the Russian-Germans a century ago -- enrich our lives. The
Somali, and other East African, refugees that represent Greeley's first distinct
immigration wave of the 21st century are fully documented, legal workers. They
deserve all the opportunities they get.

We are glad the Greeley Police Department has scheduled meetings to help Somalis
learn the rules of the road and understand our laws. We support the efforts of
Swift and Aims Community College to help the refugees learn English and adjust
to life here. We hope the rest of our community will follow this lead.

The people who have left their homelands in Africa and come to Greeley in search
of something better have earned our support. Many of them have survived far
worse than the unluckiest among us will likely ever face.

"There are warlords. There's no government existing, so everyone has a gun,"
said Ibraham Mohamed of Somalia. "You never know when you're going to die."

We are glad -- and honored -- that Greeley can give people who have survived so
much an excellent place to live.

To see more of the Greeley Tribune, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.greeleytribune.com. Copyright (c) 2008, Greeley Tribune, Colo.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080515-GY-EDITORIAL-Give-me-your-tired-your-poor-0515

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GY


                         Copyright 2008 Greeley Tribune


                              891 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            March 27, 2008 Thursday

Art out of suffering

BYLINE: By Sheena McFarland The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: WEST VALLEY

LENGTH: 585 words


The bright blue vest of a whirling dervish.

The electric yellow headwrap of a young Dinka woman.

The vivid pink shawl of a woman standing atop a mountain of white cotton balls.

The snapshots come from Sudan, and they are startlingly different from the
majority of images many Americans see of the country known for its political
upheaval, civil war and millions of refugees.

A traveling, 70-photograph art exhibit ''Sudan: The Land and the People'' is
displayed at the Utah Cultural Celebration Center in West Valley City through
April 30.

"The show is to increase awareness about the heart of Sudan and why it should be
saved and why people should care," said Susan Klinker, program director at the
center.

The exhibit, paid for by the Utah Council for for Citizen Diplomacy, is drawn
from the book of the same title written by former U.S. Ambassador Timothy Carney
and his wife and collaborator, journalist Victoria Butler.

Photographer Michael Freeman spent more than two years traversing the nearly
million miles of Sudan to capture the daily life of the Sudanese people.

The exhibit is broken into five categories: economy, history, people, religion
and social/political conflict. However, there are no direct images of war.

One photograph depicts a man drying clothing on an abandoned tank in southern
Sudan. Another shows a patient sitting on a bed in a Red Cross Hospital with
political messages scrawled on the wall.

In addition to the national show, local artist Atem Aleu, a refugee from Sudan,
has displayed artwork from himself and other refugees from the Kakuma Refugee
Camp in Kenya.

Aleu, a Lost Boy - a term used for thousands of teenage male Sudanese refugees
uprooted by Civil War - who was born in 1980 and moved to the camp in 1994, took
up painting then. He came to Utah in 1991 and graduated from Brigham Young
University in August 2007 with a degree in fine art.

In June, Aleu returned to the camp to do a 30-day artist workshop for people
ranging from 16 to 30 and formed the African Refugee Artists Club. The club
consists of refugees still in the camp and other relocated throughout the United
States.

"My paintings are about Africa and life in the Refugee Camp, but they are also
about hope for the freedom of my people and the beauty I know in my new home in
America," Aleu wrote on his Web site.

The paintings generally are acrylic on canvas, and incorporate bright colors but
often depict the hardships of life as a refugee.

"The images are very expressive of their culture and individual life
experiences," Klinker said. "Some of those images are more expressive of the
difficult life experiences of these refugees."

Aleu, who frequently visits Kenya and Uganda to teach displaced Sudanese people
to detail their histories through art, hopes people will see the many aspects of
the lives of refugees.

"We all had to face the difficulties of life as refugee and I felt that I had
much to offer through combining refugee efforts and sharing refugee experiences
and their visions for a better life. I used my paintings to tell my story and
the stories of the thousands of other young men [Lost Boys] just like me," Aleu
wrote on his Web site. "Because I was led to America by the hand of God . . . I
feel it is my responsibility to tell the world about what we went through in
Sudan."

smcfarland@sltrib.com

Want more info?

* For more information about the exhibit, visit www.culturalcelebration.org.

* For more information about the African Refugee Artists Club, visit
www.africanrefugeeartistsclub.com

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Michael Freeman's photographs are part of the exhibit "Sudan: The Land
and the People" at the Utah Cultural Celebration Center. Paired with an exhibit
of art by Sudanese refugees, the goal of the exhibits is to help people identify
with the culture, land and beauty of Sudan rather than just the wars and
conflicts.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              892 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                     FT.com

                      25 November 2007 Sunday 7:35 PM GMT

Give Annapolis a chance to succeed

LENGTH: 428 words


Pessimism is always the safe option when contemplating the chances of peace
between the Israelis and the Palestinians. Expectations are certainly extremely
low ahead of the international meeting in Annapolis in the US on Monday.

The Palestinian side is fragmented; the Israelis are wary; the Americans are
distracted; the Arabs are sceptical. It  is nice that the Brazilians and
Senegalese are sending delegations. But it might be more useful if the Iranians
or Hamas were in attendance.

Some argue that the Annapolis agenda is so limited - and the chances of success
are so feeble - that it would be better if there were no peace conference at
all. Recent history suggests that failed peace efforts are swiftly followed  by
an upsurge in violence. But giving up on the chances of a peace deal is
unacceptable. For humanitarian and strategic  reasons, the Bush administration
is right to try again.

However, if Annapolis is to confound the sceptics, three things need to be done.
First, the Americans, as the hosts of the conference, should insist on sticking
closely to the principles already agreed in previous peace efforts. There should
be a two-state solution based on the pre-1967 borders - and involving land swaps
between the two sides, which will allow Israel to keep some West Bank
settlements. There must be a freeze on building new settlements. The issues of
Jerusalem and refugees must be put on the table. Ultimately, the Palestinians
will have to accept that refugees will return only to a new Palestinian state,
not to any Israeli territory. The Israelis will have to concede that Jerusalem
will be divided.

Second, there must be a deadline set for the talks. Allowing the discussions to
meander on for ever is a formula for  failure. The most plausible deadline is to
strive for an agreement by the end of the Bush administration. Since George W.
Bush is not running for re-election, he can take some risks.

Finally, the Americans must keep up the momentum after Annapolis. If they are to
achieve a peace agreement, they will need to be engaged with both sides on an
almost daily basis. Tony Blair could perform a useful role as an intermediary.

At some point, all sides will have to acknowledge that the radicals of Hamas -
currently in control of the Gaza strip - will have to be brought into the
process. But the role of Hamas is an issue for later. If Monday's meeting can
restart the peace process and persuade the cynics to give it a chance, it will
have performed a vital function. You have to start somewhere - and Annapolis is
as good a place as any.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                     Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              893 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       Financial Times (London, England)

                             June 19, 2007 Tuesday
                                 USA Edition 1

Fleeing Iraqis lift refugee numbers to highest in five years

BYLINE: By FRANCES WILLIAMS

SECTION: WORLD NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 385 words

DATELINE: GENEVA


The exodus of Iraqis fleeing violence and hardship at home has pushed up the
number of refugees worldwide to its highest level for five years, according to
the United Nations refugee agency.

In its report on global trends to the end of last year, the UN High Commissioner
for Refugees (UNHCR) says the number of refugees coming under its core mandate
by crossing national borders jumped 14 per cent to almost 10m, reversing a
declining trend since 2002.

They include 1.5m Iraqis, most of whom have sought refuge in neighbouring
countries, notably Syria and Jordan. Since the end of 2006, numbers have reached
some 2m, with thousands continuing to flee their homes each month, say agency
officials.

The UNHCR's figures do not include about 4.3m Palestinian refugees in Jordan,
Lebanon, Syria and the Palestinian Occupied Territories, who are looked after by
another UN agency.

Excluding the Palestinians, Iraqis now make up the second largest group of
refugees in the world after 2.1m Afghans. Next come Sudanese (686,000), followed
by Somalis and refugees from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and Burundi.

At the end of last year about 40 per cent of all refugees were in the Middle
East and western Asian region. A quarter were in Africa, nearly 20 per cent in
Europe and about 10 per cent each in the Americas and Asia-Pacific. Pakistan and
Iran were the main host countries, with the US in third place followed by Syria
and Germany.

The UNHCR also has responsibility for nearly 13m internally displaced people
(IDP), more than half the estimated 24.5m IDPs up-rooted by conflict worldwide.

Under a reorganisation of UN efforts to help IDPs, who are not covered by any
international treaty, the UNHCR took on responsibility for them in several
countries including Uganda, DRC, Liberia and Somalia.

In addition, it has a role in assisting many hundreds of thousands of people
internally displaced by conflict in Iraq, Lebanon, Sri Lanka, Timor-Leste and
Darfur in Sudan.

Antonio Guterres, the high commissioner, said the UNHCR was struggling to reach
many of the IDPs it was trying to help. "Faced with a situation like Darfur, the
role of organisations such as ours is severely constrained," he said.

The overall number of people covered by the UNHCR's mandate jumped 50 per cent
last year to a total of almost 33m.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Stories

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Limited


                              894 of 996 DOCUMENTS



                                     FT.com

                       12 April 2007 Thursday 1:48 AM GMT

US defends China's role in Darfur

BYLINE: Guy Dinmore in Washington and Mark Turner at the United Nations

LENGTH: 405 words


Andrew Natsios, the US special envoy for Sudan, on Wednesday defended China from
criticism that it is not doing enough to use its economic influence over
Khartoum to stop the violence in the Darfur region.

He said that the US sanctions-based approach was complemented, rather than
undercut, by Beijing's "subtle diplomacy". "I think they may be the crucial
actors. I think there's been a lot of China-bashing in the west. And I'm not
sure, to be very frank with you, right now it's very helpful," Mr Natsios told a
Senate hearing.

He stressed that much of the violence stemmed from the rebels, broken into 14 or
so different groups. He said they were raping women from their own tribes,
committing atrocities in one refugee camp they controlled and looting aid
convoys.

"It's anarchy. The government has lost control of large parts of the province
now," Mr Natsios said, noting the conflict was also destabilising neighbouring
Chad and the Central African Republic.

Senator Joseph Biden, the Democratic chairman of the foreign relations
committee, who is also running for president,  expressed his exasperation with
the Bush administration and Sudan's stone-walling, and declared that now was the
time to take military action.

"If the president were asking me and I were his secretary of state, I would use
American force now," he said. Mr Natsios said he was willing to discuss military
options in a closed session.

The special envoy made no mention of the military co-operation agreement
be-tween China and Sudan that was officially announced in Beijing last week
during a visit by Sudan's armed forces chief of staff. China buys about
two-thirds of Sudan's oil exports.

The Bush administration, under pressure from Congress to match its rhetoric with
action over what it has denounced as "genocide" in Darfur, has put on hold its
sanctions proposals  both its own unilateral plans and those before the United
Nations  for two to four weeks at the request of Ban Ki-moon, UN
secretary-general, to give diplomacy more time.

Mr Natsios said there were signs that China was being more "aggressive" in
urging Khartoum to accept a UN peacekeeping force in Darfur, where an estimated
200,000 people have lost their lives since 2003.

He believed China's diplomacy might have been the "critical factor" that led
Sudan to reverse its position in talks this week and accept the "heavy support
package" for the African Union mission already in Darfur.

LOAD-DATE: 12 April 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                     Copyright 2007 The Financial Times Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              895 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       Financial Times (London, England)

                             June 10, 2006 Saturday
                                London Edition 1

Refugee numbers fall to 26-year low NEWS DIGEST

BYLINE: By FRANCES WILLIAMS

SECTION: WORLD NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 124 words


The number of refugees worldwide fell last year to a 26-year low of 8.4m, down
from 9.5m in 2004, the United Nations refugee agency said yesterday.

However, its own caseload rose by 1.3m to 20.8m, mainly because of an increase
in the number of internally displaced people for whom the agency has
responsibility.

The drop in refugee numbers for the fifth year running, to the lowest level
since 1980, mainly reflects large-scale repatriations to Afghanistan and a
number of countries in west Africa, though agency officials said tighter asylum
rules in industrialised nations were also a factor.

Five nationalities - Afghans, Colombians, Iraqis, Sudanese and Somalis - account
for nearly half the agency's caseload.

Frances Williams, Genevawww.unhcr.org

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Digests

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 The Financial Times Limited


                              896 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            January 29, 2006 Sunday

Sundance rains praise on the miraculous;
Sundance 2006 awards granted

BYLINE: Sean P. Means , The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: NATION/WORLD;  Pg. A1

LENGTH: 550 words


PARK CITY  --  Two movies about miracles  --  a 15-year-old virgin's

pregnancy and Sudanese refugees making a new life in America  --  were named the
big winners with audiences and juries at the 2006 Sundance Film Festival.

"Quinceanera," a drama about a Mexican-American girl who learns she is pregnant
-- though she has never had sex  --  won both the Audience Award and Grand Jury
Prize for American dramatic films.

"I can't believe this," said co-writer and co-director Wash Westmoreland as he
and partner Richard Glatzer accepted the jury prize. "This is a very little
film. A year ago it didn't exist. Sundance is like a microscope that can take
something very, very small and make it very, very big, and that's what you've
done with this. Thank you forever."

And, after receiving the audience award, Glatzer said, "It's my birthday, and
this is the best present ever."

"God Grew Tired of Us," which follows three " lost boys of Sudan" from their
refugee camp through their acclimation to the United States, took both the
Audience Award and Grand Jury Prize for American documentaries.

It is the first time the same films have taken the jury and audience prizes in
both dramatic and documentary categories in the same year.

Director Christopher Quinn thanked the refugees featured in the film, "who are
amazing, amazing people who came into my life."

Quinn also paid tribute to the refugees still living in camps in Africa "who
need our help. People are dying by the thousands out there. I hope this film
helps shed a light on the true tragedy that is Sudan."

The documentary "Iraq in Fragments," which profiles three stories of life in
post-invasion Iraq, was a multiple award winner. Filmmaker James Longley
received honors for directing, cinematography and editing (with co-editors Billy
McMillin and Fiona Otway).

"This is getting embarrassing," Longley said on his third trip to the award
stage. Before that, he thanked "all the people I worked with in Iraq, who risked
their lives to make this movie."

Dito Montiel won directing honors for dramatic films, for his
semi-autobiographical tale of growing up in Astoria, Queens, "A Guide to
Recognizing Your Saints." The movie also received a special jury prize for its
cast, which includes Robert Downey Jr., Shia LaBeouf, Dianne Wiest and Chazz
Palminteri.

"This is really nuts, man," Montiel said when he accepted the directing award.
"I didn't make a list, and if I did name them we'd be here for eternity."

Hilary Brougher took the Waldo Salt Screenwriting Award for "Stephanie Daley," a
drama about a psychologist (Tilda Swinton) interviewing a teen girl (Amber
Tamblyn) accused of killing her newborn baby in a toilet stall.

Tom Richmond won the dramatic cinematography prize for director Chris Gorak's
paranoid thriller "Right at Your Door."

Most of the award winners will be screened today, the festival's last day, in
Park City.

For more on the winners, visit www.sltrib.com.

2006 Sundance award winners

GRAND JURY PRIZE

Dramatic: "Quinceanera"

Documentary: "God Grew Tired of Us"

World Cinema: "13 Tzameti" (France)

World Cinema Documentary: "In the Pit" (Mexico)

AUDIENCE AWARD

Dramatic: "Quinceanera"

Documentary: "God Grew Tired of Us"

World Cinema: "No. 2" (New Zealand)

World Cinema Documentary:

"De Nadie (No One)" (Mexico)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wash Westmoreland, right, and Richard Glatzer celebrate after receiving
the Grand Jury Prize for "Quincea-era" in Park City on Saturday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              897 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       Financial Times (London, England)

                              June 25, 2004 Friday
                                London Edition 2

Powell to visit Sudan on mission to end Darfur violence

BYLINE: By ALEX BARKER and JONATHAN BIRCHALL

SECTION: MIDDLE EAST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 375 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Colin Powell, US secretary of state, is to visit Sudan next week, in a bid to
end a campaign of violence by pro-government militias in the western Darfur
region that has driven more than 1m people from their homes.

Richard Boucher, State Department spokesman, said Mr Powell "will make clear our
concern about the people in Darfur, (and) will make clear that we believe that
much of the hardship has been caused by the activities and the violence
perpetrated by the militias".

Khartoum must disarm its militias, allow humanitarian workers to help those in
need and keep promises to send police to protect civilians at the camps, he
added.

Mr Powell's ambassador for war crimes issues, Richard-Pierre Prosper, spoke
yesterday of seeing "indicators of genocide" in the Darfur region.

In testimony before Congress, he said the secretary's visit was to "bring to
light the atrocities that have occurred" in what he described as a "catastrophic
situation".

Kofi Annan, UN secretary general, is also due to visit Sudan next week, in a
visit his office said was aimed at "further ratcheting up the international
pressure" on the Sudanese government. Mr Annan will also visit Darfur, and
travel to a camp for refugees from the region in neighbouring Chad.

The violence in Darfur has been condemned by Washington as "ethnic cleansing",
and an estimated 150,000 refugees have fled to Chad. The Sudanese government has
been accused of obstructing the delivery of assistance to the local population.

Andrew Natsios, head of the US Agency for International Development, said on
Wednesday that an estimate that 350,000 displaced people could die from disease
and hunger over the next nine months was "conservative".

Sudan says it has ordered its army to disarm the militia groups, but
humanitarian workers in the region continue to report beatings, rapes and
looting.

For the US and other UN Security Council members, the Darfur crisis has raised
the spectre of the Rwandan genocide of 1994, in which 800,000 people are
believed to have died while the world took no action.

Khartoum is moving towards a peace agreement to end 21 years of civil war with
rebels in the mainly Christian south of the country, which it hoped would lead
to the normalisation of relations with the US.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Stories

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2004 The Financial Times Limited


                              898 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         Illawarra Mercury (Australia)

                            October 20, 2003 Monday
                                  Late Edition

World's troubles leave 22 million people seeking refuge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 428 words


There are about 22 million people in the world of concern to the United Nations
High Commission for Refugees. The people include refugees, asylum seekers and
returned refugees.

They are: Africa about 4,539,199; Europe 4,403,921; North America 1,061,199;
Latin America and Caribbean 1,050,288; Oceania 69,206; and Asia 9,379,917.

There are also about 19million people displaced in their own country.

Refugee Week is October 20-26.

Information from: Amnesty International and the United Nations.

On arrival at Sydney Airport refugees are met by a Cross-Cultural Ministries
representative and taken to Wollongong.

They are given a resettlement information pack, basic household items, and a
small amount of money for food.

They are then taken to their rental accommodation.

In the next few days the refugees register with Medicare, the Australian Tax
Office, Centrelink, sign up for English courses and tour Wollongong.

They are also shown how to pay rent, access interpreter services and then trauma
counselling may begin.

Overseas qualifications, health, employment, education and social participation
issues will also be addressed.

Liberia - a brief history:

Founded in 1821 by the American Colonisation Society as a settlement for freed
American slaves.

The colony was declared an independent republic in 1847 and controlled with an
Americo-Liberian minority.

The government was overthrown in 1871.

In 1930 an investigation found slave trading had occurred with government
collusion. President CBD King resigned and presidents Edwin Barclay and later
William VSTubman took control.

After Mr Tumban's death in 1971, vice-president WRTolbert was elected president
in 1972 and an organised opposition emerged.

In 1980 Mr Tolbert was assassinated in a coup led by Sergeant Samuel K Doe who
pledged a return to civilian rule in 1981. He was Liberia's first indigenous
president in 1985. The Doe Government was infamous for corruption and
human-rights abuses.

Liberia was then invaded by rebels led by Charles Taylor, who proclaimed himself
president.

Mr Doe was killed in 1990 by rebels led by Prince Yormie Johnson, who also
sought the presidency.

There were ceasefires in 1993 and 1994, but clashes between factions persisted.

The war formally ended in 1997 with an estimated 150,000-200,000 people killed
and hundreds of thousands of refugees.

Charles Taylor came to power in 1997 and the country remained economically
devastated.

In mid-2001 fighting erupted in Liberia between anti-Taylor rebels and
government forces and the fighting intensified in 2002.

Information from: www.infoplease.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2003 Illawarra Newspapers Holdings Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              899 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                        Financial Times (London,England)

                              July 28, 2003 Monday
                                London Edition 1

US calls for new ceasefire line in Liberia

BYLINE: By PERONET DESPEIGNES and MICHAEL PEEL

SECTION: WORLD NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 459 words

DATELINE: LAGOS and WASHINGTON


The US appealed yesterday for the warring parties in Liberia's civil war to
establish a new ceasefire line to help humanitarian aid reach tens of thousands
of displaced people in and around Monrovia, the capital.

John Blaney, US ambassador to Liberia, urged the rebel Liberians United for
Reconciliation and Democracy (Lurd) to accept the proposal amid reports of more
than a dozen deaths over the weekend in fighting triggered by the latest rebel
offensive.

The call for the restoration of a much-violated ceasefire comes after the US
decision on Friday to send three warships to Liberia to offer assistance to a
west African peacekeeping force whose deployment date is expected to be
announced today.

Mr Blaney said the Lurd rebels, who are fighting forces loyal to President
Charles Taylor, needed to show they had a regard for the people of Liberia and
were "not indifferent" to the great human suffering taking place.

The proposed new ceasefire line is intended to give aid workers access to
refugee camps to the north of the city and open up access to the port, where the
International Committee of the Red Cross says large food supplies were
inaccessible last week.

"If (the rebels) want to get to a post-Taylor era, this is the way to do it,"
said Mr Blaney.

His remarks reflect the increasingly tough rhetoric being used by the US against
the rebels, who have launched three advances on Monrovia in the past two months,
two of them after a ceasefire negotiated by the warring parties in Ghana.

The government of Mr Taylor, who has faced repeated US calls to step down as a
precondition to a peacekeeping intervention, has accused Washington of favouring
the Lurd, a charge the US denies. Guinea, a neighbouring country that enjoys
military assistance from the US, has denied accusations of support for the Lurd.

Aid workers reported more than a dozen deaths in Monrovia's port area over the
weekend after a similar number of people were killed in mortar attacks on Friday
on the Mamba Point diplomatic area, where crowds have gathered to seek refuge in
US embassy buildings.

President George W. Bush has ordered three ships carrying almost 2,500 marines
to go to Liberia and wait offshore. But Paul Wolfowitz, deputy defence
secretary, suggested yesterday that the US would not take the lead in any
large-scale operation.

"We're prepared to assist the UN in establishing a ceasefire, in evacuating
Taylor and getting regional troops in. We'll help them get there. But we cannot
take on all tasks."

The west African force planned by Ecowas, the economic union of west African
states, is expected to consist of a vanguard of about 1,500 Nigerian troops with
contributions from other nations in the region eventually bringing the total
number of soldiers to 3,250.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Stories

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The Financial Times Limited


                              900 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                            The Press (Christchurch)

                          September 7, 2002, Saturday

NZ turns back on allies Bewilderment at Govt's Iraq stance HOT NUMBERS

BYLINE: BIRSS Neill

SECTION: BUSINESS Pg. 6; BUSINESS DAY RIGHT ON; C

LENGTH: 706 words


New Zealand's quickening drift into neutrality isn't about nuclear weapons after
all.

That's clear as Britain and Australia stand shoulder to shoulder against Saddam
Hussein with our old ally and protector, the United States.

In this case we refuse to help America stop Iraqi proliferation of nuclear
weapons.

The Government's position is certainly not about trade. We can kiss goodbye
prospects of free trade with America any time soon.

Foreign Affairs Minister Phil Goff says New Zealand rejects any part of this
battle. We stand aside. Labour announced this policy while Prime Minister Helen
Clark hung out with Third World leaders in Africa.

Our Iraq stance seems to be about a career path for Leftist politicians. After
the Beehive, Clark could well move to a United Nations job. Networking with
West- haters could be useful.

Those who watched on TV the shameful jeering of Colin Powell in South Africa
shudder at our country distancing itself from old allies to identify with such a
mob.

Does Labour want New Zealand to remain a Western country? The Government's
refugee policies, as well as its defence stance, suggest otherwise.

For example, accepting UN- selected refugees, while we decline open entry to a
thousand or two persecuted Zimbabwe white farmers.

Or perhaps Government politicians just want to curry more favour with the UN
bureaucracy for, well, you never know when.

Everyone in the world wants to get into the West. Look at migrant- smuggling
flows.

No sensible politician should dream of taking New Zealand out of this bloc that
the rest of the world envies.

Even for a UN job.

Left, Right, Left, Left

The Christchurch City Council goes up in Right on's estimation with its
rejection of a rush into proportional voting for the next council elections.

This will give citizens time to make an informed choice on whether they want to
abandon first- past-the-post (FPP) for the single transferable vote (STV)
system, a Trojan horse of the Greens.

Even if local-body STV is adopted for the following election it could be a
pyrrhic victory for the Left-Greens.

The Right is already planning a campaign for the next Christchurch elections. If
we do descend to MMP politics to run our city, we could see a National-ACT type
coalition lined up against Labour-Greens.

Instead of the cosy, middle-road, local-body consensus of the FPP past, we will
then see vigorous debate on privatising People's Republic of Christchurch assets
such as Orion, City Care, and Red Bus. Canterbury Development Cor- poration
tasks could go to tender. The council could stop competing with business
ratepayers.

First, the National Party in Christchurch must come out of its coma. Whether we
have FPP or Maximum Muddle Politics, we need two strong camps, one to govern,
the other to keep the governors on their toes.

Righton@press. co.nz .

HOT NUMBERS

.

Environment Canterbury's move to have a court rule electro-magnetic radiation a
contaminant would give regional councils power over cellphone towers.

This is Cr Neil Cherry's swan song in a long battle to establish that cellphone
radiation is a health threat on the scale of tobacco.

His council colleagues don't share the motivation of Cr Cherry, as he stoically
endures his illness.

Significant correlation between cellphone use and brain cancer has yet to be
found in replicated research.

Given that heavy cellphone use is only about five years old, there's a remote
chance a link could be found. If so it will almost certainly come from cellphone
handset use rather than from towers, from which we receive far less radiation
than from radio or TV transmitters.

Heavy cellphone users can reduce radiation exposure by using hands- free kits.
They should ignore the infamous and dubious experiment with a contrary finding.
Kits cannot increase exposure and will almost certainly reduce it.

Users can also slash exposure by making calls from spots with good reception.
SMS (text messaging), so popular with young people, in particular carries
negligible radiation risk.

Let people decide for themselves whether cellphones carry risk, and if so
whether to accept it.

--------------------

CAPTION:

CARTOON AL NISBET

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 Fairfax New Zealand


                              901 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                        Financial Times (London,England)

                    July 18, 2000, Tuesday London Edition 1

NATIONAL NEWS: Britain 'dumped islanders in Mauritius' HIGH COURT DISPLACED
PERSONS SEEK RIGHT TO RETURN TO INDIAN OCEAN ISLANDS LEASED TO THE US:

BYLINE: By DAVID BUCHAN

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 382 words


Past governments - Labour and Tory - were accused yesterday of "riding
roughshod" over the rights of Indian Ocean islanders transported from their
homes to make way for a US military base.

Lawyers acting on behalf of the islanders opened their High Court appeal for
judicial review of government moves in the late 1960s and 1970s to shift people
from the Chagos islands, mainly to Mauritius 1,200 miles away. Some 2,000
displaced islanders claim they were unlawfully "dumped" in Mauritius and are
seeking to establish their right to return.

Sir Sydney Kentridge, for Louis Bancoult who as chairman of the Chagos refugee
group in Mauritius has brought the appeal, said the issue was whether the
islanders had a legal right to return, rather than about the practicalities of
any return.

The displaced islanders in Mauritius have received Pounds 5.7m in British aid,
but Sir Sydney claimed many were still living in poverty.

But the Foreign Office argues that any permanent return of the islanders to the
Chagos islands would infringe the terms of their indefinite lease to the US for
defence purposes. It also contends that a return would be impractical since the
islands, apart from the US military presence, have been uninhabited for more
than 30 years and lack water and any civil communications, although it has hired
consultants to examine the feasibility of people returning to islands not
actively used by the US.

In 1966, Britain leased this outpost of empire to the US, which has built an air
base on the main island of Diego Garcia, from which in recent years it has flown
bombing missions against Iraq.

The terms of the lease required Britain to separate the Chagos islands from
Mauritius, to clear them of any permanent population and impose direct political
control by forming them into a new, although uninhabited, British colony called
the British Indian Ocean Territory.

At issue in this case of "the island clearances", is the nature of the 1966
lease agreed by the Labour government of Harold Wilson and the 1971 immigration
order imposed by the Conservative government of Edward Heath excluding any
return to the islands except by permit. These reflected bipartisan support
during the cold war for the US to take over Britain's military role east of
Suez.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The Financial Times Limited


                              902 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                        Financial Times (London,England)

                     June 6, 2000, Tuesday London Edition 2

WORLD NEWS: AFRICA & THE MIDDLE EAST: Albright back for late effort at Mideast
breakthrough PEACE TALKS WITH ARAFAT AND BARAK:

BYLINE: By JUDY DEMPSEY

SECTION: WORLD NEWS: AFRICA & THE MIDDLE EAST; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 506 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


Madeleine Albright, the US secretary of state, yesterday returned to Israel and
the Palestinian territories in one of her last rounds of shuttle diplomacy
before the Clinton administration relinquishes power.

With time running out, US, Israeli and Palestinian spin doctors are either
damping expectations of a breakthrough between Ehud Barak, the Israeli prime
minister, and Yassir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, or else raising prospects
for a summit next month followed by a treaty in September.

Although the region is awash with rumours and denials, one thing is certain:
Israeli and Palestinian negotiators have started examining the detail of what a
Palestinian state might look like.

"The whole thing could fall apart," said one Israeli official. A Palestinian
official was uncharacteristically optimistic. "Certain things are possible. With
political will on both sides we could end the conflict."

Among the proposals is one in which Israel would hand over 92 per cent of the
West Bank to the Palestinians. There is a twist: Israel would lease part of that
land from the Palestinians, possibly enabling Mr Arafat to claim that he has won
back the entire West Bank.

Depending on where the land is located, some Jewish settlers will live on leased
land. Others will be concentrated in large blocs which, under a treaty, will be
annexed to Israel.

There is a precedent for Israel leasing land. It did so with three enclaves from
Jordan as part of the 1994 peace treaty. "Theoretically, it is again possible,"
said a senior Israeli diplomat.

If the land issue is negotiable on the basis of a long-term lease, although it
remains unclear whether Palestinians would control their borders, the sine qua
non of sovereignty, some Palestinians believe that the refugee issue could be
negotiated too.

Mr Barak has always rejected the right of return for the 3.6m United
Nations-registered refugees, and denied responsibility for what happened to them
in 1948 during the war that followed Israel's foundation.

Nevertheless, Israeli and Palestinian officials do not rule out the possibility
that many thousands of refugees could return to Israel on the basis of family
reunification. Meanwhile, stateless Palestinians in Lebanon would be granted
Palestinian citizenship and a compensation fund would be set up.

The question is whether Mr Arafat has a sufficiently popular mandate to accept
these proposals, or indeed whether Mr Barak could muster enough support to win a
referendum on them.

Until last month Mr Arafat might have been tempted. But Israel's complete
withdrawal from south Lebanon in accordance with UN security council resolution
425 has, for some Palestinians, rekindled the hope that holding out for Israel's
compliance with UN resolution 242 - which implies returning to the 1967 borders
- would be worth it.

If so, US spin doctors can forget about a ceremony on the White House lawn on
September 13, the seventh anniversary of the first Oslo peace accord, in the
twilight of the Clinton era.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 The Financial Times Limited


                              903 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 20, 1999, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Yvette Pierpaoli, 60, Aid Worker Who Devoted Life to Refugees

BYLINE: By WILLIAM H. HONAN

SECTION: Section C; Page 22; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 332 words


Yvette Pierpaoli, a dynamic French woman who traveled the world seeking to help
war widows, displaced persons, land-mine victims, homeless families, street
children and other refugees, was one of three aid workers killed on Sunday in an
automobile accident near Kukes, Albania. She was 60.

As a European representative of Refugees International, an aid organization, Ms.
Pierpaoli had been making trips to the Balkans since last June, when she saw
some of the first refugees fleeing Kosovo.

"She was a legend in the international refugee community," said Richard C.
Holbrooke, chairman of Refugees International, President Clinton's nominee for
chief American delegate to the United Nations and a special envoy to the
Balkans. "A small woman of incredible strength and enthusiasm, she carried
people along with her."

Ms. Pierpaoli's efforts to help people began when she was 19 years old and left
France for Cambodia to operate an import-export business there. She undertook
aid missions to many countries in Asia, Africa and Latin America, including
Thailand, Cambodia, Mali and Niger.

She was forced to leave Cambodia after the Khmer Rouge came to power in 1975,
and she retired between travels to a stone house in the village of Serviers in
the south of France.

In the 1980's, she founded Tomorrow, a nonprofit foundation that provided seed
money for development projects and emergency assistance.

One of her special interests was the plight of Tuareg refugees in the Sahara
desert of Mali and Niger. During many visits to these countries, she helped to
develop projects for irrigation and raising livestock.

She was a co-founder of Info Birmanie, a European human rights organization
focused on Burma.

Ms. Pierpaoli was well known in France, partly through her 1992 autobiography,
"Woman of a Thousand Children" (Robert Laffont, Paris).

She is survived by a daughter, Emanuel, who lives in the New York City area, and
a son, Oliver, who lives in Paris.

http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: Yvette Pierpaoli

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              904 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 14, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Leo Cherne, Leader of Agency For Refugees, Is Dead at 86

BYLINE: By MICHAEL T. KAUFMAN

SECTION: Section C;  Page 21;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 872 words


Leo Cherne, who turned the International Rescue Committee into the largest
agency in the world for the relief and resettlement of refugees, died on Tuesday
at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan.

A lawyer, economist and businessman, Mr. Cherne became chairman of the I.R.C. in
1951, succeeding Reinhold Niebuhr, the theologian. The organization had grown
out of modest efforts to rescue a few thousand endangered people from
Nazi-occupied France in the early days of World War II. Under Mr. Cherne, the
New York-based committee eventually helped hundreds of thousands of displaced,
dispossessed and desperate people, first in Europe and then all over the world
in places like Bangladesh, Southeast Asia, Latin America, the Horn of Africa,
Afghanistan, Rwanda and Burundi.

When Mr. Cherne was given the United States Medal of Freedom in 1984, President
Reagan cited the "moral passion" he had shown in "serving the cause of human
freedom, especially through his work on behalf of refugees."

Mr. Cherne was also an adviser to nine presidents, a close friend of William
Casey, the former head of the C.I.A., and from 1973 to 1991 a member of the
President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board, serving as its chairman during
the Bush Administration. As a member of this low-profile but high-impact panel,
Mr. Cherne helped create the so-called Team B, a group of experts headed by
Richard Pipes, the Harvard historian, which disputed C.I.A. assessments of
Soviet military capabilities and intentions as too dovish; the committee's more
alarming estimates bolstered the positions of the strongest proponents of
increased United States military expenditures.

Lionel Olmer, a lawyer and a former Undersecretary of Commerce, said that during
his last hospital visit to his friend of 29 years, as the two men talked about
human rights and refugees, Mr. Cherne told him, "I hope I'll also be remembered
as a cold warrior."

Andrew Smith, who is working on an authorized biography of Mr. Cherne, said he
was a man of great reticence and discretion. "He knew that the way to get and
maintain influence in Washington was to get things done and then to keep quiet
about them," Mr. Smith said. He added: "It certainly worked well for him, giving
him access to every President since Roosevelt. Here was a poor boy from the
Bronx, without money or family or influence, who became the consummate insider."

Mr. Cherne had been a Democrat since his youth but in 1980 became a figure in
Democrats for Reagan because of the candidate's views on national security.

Leo Cherne was born in New York on Sept. 18, 1912, to Max and Dora Cherne,
immigrants from Russia. His father had a photography store in the Bronx. He
attended public schools, New York University and New York Law School.

After jobs in several law firms, in 1935 he teamed up with a Bible salesman from
Kansas named Carl Hovgard to establish a company that published and distributed
Mr. Cherne's advice to businessmen on how to contend with the new Social
Security law. The book became extremely successful, and the company grew into
the Research Institute of America, which offered Mr. Cherne's assessments about
how world and political events would affect business.

At war's end, General Douglas MacArthur took him to Japan to work on the
defeated nation's economic recovery.

The Research Institute of America was providing Mr. Cherne with a comfortable
income, and his yearly economic and political forecast regularly drew a thousand
listeners to the Waldorf Astoria. He joined the board of Freedom House and he
became the chairman of the I.R.C., which was in financial difficulty at the
time. His aggressive fund-raising staved off collapse and allowed for steady
expansion.

In 1953, Mr. Cherne participated in a radio program, "The Town Meeting of the
Air," on which he debated Senator Joseph McCarthy. Though Mr. Cherne shared
Senator McCarthy's antipathy toward communism and its proponents, he strongly
challenged and scorned McCarthyism's demagogic methods and contempt for truth
and civil rights.

Three years later, when Soviet tanks moved into Budapest to crush the Hungarian
uprising, Mr. Cherne went to the Hungarian border to bear witness. On his
return, he appeared on the Ed Sullivan television program, poignantly describing
refugees trying to evade tanks as they fled their occupied land. The appearance
evoked an outpouring of contributions. It was the first of many such missions
and public pleas by an essentially reticent man.

While working daily for the I.R.C., consulting often, if anonymously, in
Washington, and writing economic analysis, Mr. Cherne also became an
accomplished sculptor. Many of his busts are on prominent public display. He
retired from the I.R.C. as chairman in 1991 but remained chairman emeritus and
visited his office regularly until his recent illness. He received many
decorations, among them the French Legion of Honor, Germany's Commander Cross
and the United Nations Gold Medal of Peace.

Mr. Cherne is survived by his daughter, Gail Gambino of Baiting Hollow, N.Y., a
brother, Jack Cherne of Santa Monica, Calif., and a granddaughter, Erica Gambino
of Bridgehampton, N.Y.



http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: Leo Cherne

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Leo Cherne (The New York Times, 1983)

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


                              905 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 4, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Pierce Gerety, 56, Official Who Helped African Refugees

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER S. WREN

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 728 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 3


Pierce Gerety, a Harvard-educated lawyer who briefly considered the priesthood
but instead devoted his life to helping refugees trapped in the maelstroms of
war and disaster around the world, died on Wednesday night in the crash of the
Swissair jetliner off Nova Scotia. He would have been 57 next Monday.

Mr. Gerety worked for the United Nations High Commission for Refugees as
director of operations for the region of central Africa encompassing Lake
Victoria and Lake Tanganyika, an assignment that took him into Congo, Rwanda and
Burundi. He was admired by other humanitarian workers for his coolness in the
face of trouble.

"He had probably been in more physically dangerous situations than anyone else
in the refugee field," said Robert P. De Vecchi, the retired president of the
International Rescue Committee, which originally hired Mr. Gerety to work with
Cambodian refugees in Thailand. "He was equally comfortable briefing a head of
state or pulling a Vietnamese fishing boat out of the water."

Mr. Gerety's brother Tom, who is president of Amherst College, said: "Pierce was
shot at a lot. It seemed like he was constantly courting risk and always pretty
much got away scot-free."

It was ironic, Dr. Gerety added, that his brother lost his life on one of the
world's safest airlines, flying to one of the world's safest cities.

Pierce Gerety was born into a family in Fairfield, Conn., that valued public
service. His father, Pierce Joseph Garety Sr., was appointed by President Dwight
D. Eisenhower to supervise the admission of refugees entering the United States
after World War II.

The younger Mr. Gerety graduated from Yale University in 1962 and studied
theology and philosophy at the Institute Catholique in Paris, where he found
time to set up a soup kitchen. He considered becoming a Roman Catholic priest
until he fell in love with a young Frenchwoman, Marie de la Soudiere. They
married and went off to India to work for the Catholic Relief Services.

After a couple of years Mr. Gerety returned home to attend Harvard Law School,
receiving his law degree in 1971. Ignoring more lucrative prospects, he became a
Legal Aid lawyer in New York City.

"He was a little impatient with American law," Dr. Gerety said of his brother.
"He wanted to be out and among people in crisis and need."

In 1979, Pierce Gerety approached the International Rescue Committee and
volunteered to go to Thailand and help with Cambodian refugees who had fled
their homeland.

"He was a person with a very quick intelligence, an intuitive sense of a
situation and what needed to be done with the resources at hand," Mr. De Vecchi
said.

In 1982, Mr. Gerety became a legal officer at the headquarters of the United
Nations High Commissioner in Geneva, but soon began pushing to get back into the
field.

"He had a quality of impatience and of a desire to go out and live on the edge,"
Dr. Gerety said. "It was not dogmatic or ideological. He retained this almost
Catholic passion for working with the poorest of the poor."

Pierce Gerety demonstraterd this in a succession of difficult assignments,
helping Afghan refugees in Pakistan, Vietnamese refugees in the Philippines and,
more recently, refugees in southern Sudan.

Mr. Gerety was lent to the United Nations Children's Fund in Somalia, where a
warlord, Mohammed Aidid, took to kidnapping humanitarian aid workers. Mr. Gerety
walked into the warlord's armed camp and coolly negotiated their release.

Mr. Gerety returned to the refugee agency and was appointed last year as its
director of operations in cental Africa, where he and other officials pleaded
with the Congolese rebel leader Laurent Kabila to stop the slaughter of Rwandan
refugees.

After the risks he took, friends said, Mr. Gerety wanted to spend more time with
his wife, who directs the International Rescue Committee's program for children
affected by wars, and their three children, Sebastian, Pierce and Maeve. Mr.
Gerety is also survived by his mother, Helen, of Southport, Conn., and two other
brothers, Peter, a lawyer in Fairfield, Conn., and Miles, a lawyers in Redding,
Conn.

"He was very proud of his children and very much in love with his wife, and vice
versa," said Susan Walker, a coordinator of the International Campaign to Ban
Land Mines, who first met Mr. Gerety in Thailand. "It was a joy to see them.

NAME: Pierce Gerety

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pierce Gerety (Associated Press)


TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              906 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                        Financial Times (London,England)

                     August 6, 1998, Thursday USA EDITION 2

Pressures on UNHCR to compromise ideals

SECTION: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 172 words


From Mr Arthur C. Helton.

Sir, as one who has followed for many years the work of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees, I was saddened to see the revelations in your article
"Ideals fall prey to political pressure" (July 29). Many non-governmental
organisations have recently expressed concern about the diminishment of UNHCR's
protection initiatives.

The truth is that UNHCR has been increasingly pressured by governments to
compromise refugee protection ideals, including by requiring the agency to
deploy in situations of internal strife without an appropriate military or
political framework. The low point in the decline of protection occurred in 1996
with the forced return of asylum seekers from Tanzania to Rwanda with UNHCR's
acquiescence.

The challenge for the agency's leadership now is to undertake a campaign to
revive respect for the human rights of refugees.

Arthur C. Helton, director, forced migration projects, Open Society Institute,
400 West 59th Street, New York, NY 10019, US

LOAD-DATE: August 06, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letters

                   Copyright 1998 The Financial Times Limited


                              907 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

                    August 1, 1998, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Strangers in their own lands: Up to 25 million people worldwide are in flight in
their own countries

BYLINE: ROBERTA COHEN AND FRANCIS M. DENG; FOREIGN AFFAIRS MAGAZINE

SECTION: THE REVIEW; Pg. B1 / BREAK

LENGTH: 1285 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Tens of millions of people have been forced from their homes during the past
decade by armed conflict, internal strife and systematic violations of human
rights, all the while remaining within the borders of their own countries.

No continent has been spared.

Africa today counts about 10 million internally displaced persons, Europe and
Asia some 5 million each, and Latin America up to 2 million. These masses in
flight - who, unlike refugees, have not crossed a border - constitute the newest
global crisis.

Internal displacement always has severe humanitarian implications. These
displaced persons are at the greatest risk of starvation, have the highest rates
of preventable disease and are the most vulnerable to human-rights abuses.

Internal displacement is a symptom of state dysfunction that poses a threat to
political and economic stability at the national and international levels. Both
the communities left behind and the towns and villages in which the displaced
find refuge are often ravaged.

In some cases, so many people flee that whole societies are uprooted. Violence
and instability can spread through entire regions, forcing neighbouring states
to bear the brunt of massive refugee flows. Even countries continents away might
have to contend with a wave of desperate refugees.

Today's crisis of internal displacement is no less acute than the refugee crisis
that confronted Europe after World War II. Then, humanitarian needs coupled with
practical political and economic interests brought about a system of
international protection and assistance for those displaced outside their native
countries.

In 1951, the position of United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees was
created and a UN refugee convention adopted. Today, UNHCR has a staff of 5,000,
an annual budget of more than $ 1 billion U.S., and 13.2 million refugees in its
care.

But those forced from their homes who remain under their government's
jurisdiction are not covered by any international arrangements. Although their
numbers now exceed those of refugees, no international institution is
specifically charged with their protection or assistance. The absurdity is that
if these people had crossed a border, they would fall under UN protection.

Internal displacement became a subject of international concern in the late
1980s. When the numbers were first compiled in 1982, 1.2 million people were
estimated to be displaced in 11 countries. Four years later, the total had grown
to 14 million. Since the early 1990s, the numbers have fluctuated between 20
million and 25 million in 35 to 40 countries.

The major reason for this dramatic increase was the rise in internal conflicts
as the Cold War came to a close. The proxy wars the superpowers fought in the
1980s displaced millions of people who came into full view only as Cold War
tensions eased in Angola, Mozambique, Ethiopia, Afghanistan, Cambodia and El
Salvador. The arms the United States and the Soviet Union had supplied to
regimes or opposition movements furnished the weaponry for the ethnic and clan
warfare that broke out once the superpowers departed.

Liberia and Somalia, two countries that plunged into civil war, were among the
largest recipients of U.S. military assistance in sub-Saharan Africa during the
1980s. In Europe and Central Asia, the collapse of the Soviet Union lifted the
lid on nationalist aspirations and ethnic rivalries that displaced millions
more.

Elsewhere, vast disparities in wealth, land ownership and power have been at the
root of conflict. In Rwanda and Burundi, high population density and limited
fertile land exacerbated tensions between Hutus and Tutsis. In Colombia,
conflict over land has forced hundreds of thousands from their homes.

In other cases, struggles between governments and minorities have produced mass
displacement. In Sudan, which has the world's largest internally displaced
population, the efforts of successive northern governments to impose Islam on
the black African south have made 4 million people homeless.

In Turkey, which has the second-largest displaced population, government
repression against the Kurdish minority has sent 2 million people fleeing for
their lives.

The 1990s have seen greater willingness on the part of the international
community to intervene in these situations, even without the consent of the
government concerned. A major motivation has been the desire to forestall
international flows of refugees.

As the number of refugees has grown, Western governments as well as those in
Africa and elsewhere have become less welcoming to those in flight. Their focus
has shifted to keeping people in their homelands. The UN Security Council
justified the international community's precedent-setting intervention on behalf
of the Kurds in Iraq in 1991 on the ground that massive flows of refugees
threatened international peace and security.

Subsequent Security Council resolutions on Somalia, Bosnia and Rwanda have also
authorized the use of force to facilitate the delivery of relief and, in the
latter two cases, to protect internally displaced populations.

Nonetheless, the principles of sovereignty, territorial integrity and
non-interference in the internal affairs of states present formidable obstacles
to intervention by international organizations. While some governments, such as
Sri Lanka, invite international assistance, others deliberately bar humanitarian
aid, seeing it as strengthening their opponents and undermining their authority.

Sudan, for example, has obstructed humanitarian aid, while Turkey has blocked
all international assistance to its displaced citizens. Some countries have
deliberately starved the displaced while invoking their sovereignty to keep the
international community at bay.

In response, the representative of the UN secretary-general on internally
displaced persons outlined guiding principles for the rights of the displaced
and the duties and obligations of states and insurgent groups. These principles
include a right not to be arbitrarily displaced, access to humanitarian
assistance and protection while in flight and guarantees of reparations upon
returning home.

While the principles lack legal force, they set standards that should put both
governments and insurgent groups on notice and give international and
nongovernmental organizations a basis for legitimate action. The United Nations'
acknowledgment of these principles and call for their observance would be an
important step forward.

To date, the international community has focused on providing food, shelter and
medical supplies. Yet displaced persons have regularly pointed out that security
is as great a priority as food. Providing relief to uprooted people while
ignoring the fact they are being beaten or raped has led some to call the
victims the "well-fed dead."

Humanitarian assistance and development agencies of all stripes will have to
become more responsible for protecting the people they assist. Many have
silently witnessed abuses because of exaggerated fears that confronting a host
government will result in expulsion of their personnel and termination of their
programs.

The effort would be strengthened if governments and insurgent groups were made
aware that they were dealing with a united front bound by common human rights
and humanitarian standards.

In recent years, military interventions have been more successful in preventing
starvation than in physically defending people at risk. This failure underscores
the need for strategies to prevent genocide and other crimes against humanity
that lead to displacement.


LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Photo: AFP / Ethnic Albanians from Orahovac, a town in the Serbian
province of Kosovo, take refuge near the Albanian border.
Photo: AFP / A nurse takes care of a premature baby sleeping in a box in
southern Sudan.

Photo: AFP / Sudanese famine victims head toward a UNICEF feeding centre in Wau,
in southern Sudan.

Color Photo: ERIC FEFFERBERG, AFP / A Sudanese refugee and her baby near
Khartoum. Sudan has 4 million homeless people, the world's largest internally
displaced population.

               Copyright 1998 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              908 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 22, 1998, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW YORK;
Woman Is Arrested After Baby Suffocates

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 230 words


A South African woman who was trying to sneak into the United States from Canada
with her infant son, but without a visa, was arrested Thursday night in Niagara
Falls after the baby died of asphyxiation, according to court records.

The woman, Gallena Begg, 30, of Johannesburg, and her 8-month-old baby were in
the trunk of a vehicle that belonged to Ms. Begg's brother, Achthmat Begg, 31,
and her uncle, Mohamad Tahir Toffie, 57, both South Africans who were living in
Miami. The police said the two men, who were also arrested, were trying to sneak
her and the child into the country because Ms. Begg wanted her dying mother in
Florida to meet her grandson, according to court documents reviewed in
yesterday's Niagara Gazette.

Ms. Begg, frightened to be caught after customs agents stopped the car, held the
baby so tight that he died of asphyxiation, the Niagara County Coroner, James
Joyce, determined.

The boy did not appear well and was rushed to an inspections office, the paper
reported. Efforts to revive him there failed and he was pronounced dead later at
a hospital.

Louis Curcione, the Chief of Detectives in Niagara Falls, said that Ms. Begg did
not know the child was dead until the police told her later.

The three pleaded not guilty to criminally negligent homicide. Bail was set at
$10,000 each, and they are due back in court Tuesday.   (AP)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


                              909 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                        Financial Times (London,England)

                  September 10, 1997, Wednesday USA EDITION 1

UN suspends aid for Congo's Rwanda refugees

BYLINE: By Michael Littlejohns, UN Correspondent in New York

SECTION: NEWS: INTERNATIONAL; Pg. 06

LENGTH: 217 words

DATELINE: New York


The United Nations said yesterday it was suspending aid for Rwanda refugees in
Congo because it was no longer possible to provide protection for them.

"We cannot protect refugees if the host governments do not abide by the
principles and standards of law," said Sadako Ogata, UN High Commissioner for
Refugees, after briefing the Security Council.

The move is coupled with an appeal to governments in the Great Lakes region to
meet their international obligations.

Mrs Ogata cited an incident last week in which Congolese troops surrounded the
Kisangani transit centre and took away hundreds of Rwandan and Burundian
refugees to Rwanda.

"There are no more refugees in the centre," she said. "This kind of situation
obliged us to suspend the operation." There were Rwandan refugees in 10
different countries and because most were unwilling to be repatriated it was
essential that each case be considered carefully, which would take some time.

Bill Richardson, US delegate and current president of the Security Council,
voiced "in the strongest terms" the Council's support for the move and called on
the African governments of the region to comply fully with their obligations. He
said the Council was also deeply concerned for the fate of those removed from
the Kisangani centre.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Stories

                   Copyright 1997 The Financial Times Limited


                              910 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 12, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Congo Under Laurent Kabila

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 438 words


The course taken by the new Government of Congo under Laurent Kabila will have
important consequences for much of Africa. Nine other countries border on the
vast, mineral-rich and strategically located land formerly known as Zaire, and
the political and military dynamics in several of them have already begun to
shift. So have regional perceptions of France and the United States. Paris lost
prestige for sticking too long with the dictator of Zaire, Mobutu Sese Seko.
Washington, though also a longtime Mobutu supporter, is now identified with the
new Kabila Government.

The Clinton Administration has moved deftly in this rapidly changing situation,
opening a direct dialogue with Mr. Kabila through Bill Richardson, America's
United Nations representative, who also acts as President Clinton's personal
emissary.

Concerns have already emerged about the Kabila regime's involvement in refugee
killings and its commitment to democracy. Troops loyal to Mr. Kabila reportedly
carried out deliberate massacres of Hutu refugees from Rwanda. The new
Government has also restricted political rights, deferred elections for at least
two years and failed to incorporate longtime political opponents of the Mobutu
dictatorship in its administration.

After decades of winking at Mr. Mobutu's authoritarianism, corruption and
violations of his neighbors' sovereignty, Washington would seem awkward
preaching civic virtue to Mr. Kabila. But that is what it must do. Condoning new
abuses will not help Congo recover from Mr. Mobutu's disastrous misrule.

Washington must also back up its advice with human rights conditions on American
aid. Last weekend Mr. Richardson told Mr. Kabila that the United States was
prepared to help with health and education needs, planning a market economy,
organizing elections and integrating former soldiers into society. But he
rightly conditioned this help on Mr. Kabila's addressing urgent humanitarian
issues and longer-term political reforms.

The first important test will be how Mr. Kabila responds to the massacre
reports. These must be promptly and impartially investigated and any guilty
parties prosecuted. The new Government must also give the United Nations and the
International Red Cross access to remaining refugees and cooperate in their
eventual repatriation to Rwanda or safe havens elsewhere.

Mr. Kabila only recently emerged from obscurity and should be given a chance to
respond to Mr. Richardson's advice. But America should provide aid only if he
begins to move Congo away from the human rights abuses and dictatorship it
suffered for so long under Mr. Mobutu.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              911 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                        Financial Times (London,England)

                     May 6, 1997, Tuesday EUROPE EDITION 1

Rwandan refugees

SECTION: FRONT PAGE - FIRST SECTION; Pg. 01

LENGTH: 41 words


Rwandan refugees wait to board a United Nations jet in Kisangani, Zaire, for
return to the homeland they fled during the genocide of 1994. So far, 7,000 of
40,000 refugees have returned to Rwanda. US tries to avert bloodshed, Page 16

LOAD-DATE: May 06, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Stories

                   Copyright 1997 The Financial Times Limited


                              912 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 13, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Pulls Out 250 G.I.'s on a Relief Mission

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 415 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 12


The possibility that an international military force might be sent to aid
Rwandan refugees in Central Africa was quickly fading today as the Pentagon
announced that it had withdrawn half of the 450 American soldiers sent to the
region to prepare for a relief mission, including all of those in Rwanda.

The Pentagon's spokesman, Kenneth Bacon, said there appeared to be few reasons
left for a relief mission whose scope had already been drastically scaled back
as hundreds of thousands of refugees who fled to eastern Zaire two years ago had
returned to Rwanda.

"The momentum seems to be moving away from an international mission there," Mr.
Bacon said at a news conference. "There's been massive repatriation of refugees,
and these refugees seem to be in relatively good health."

The announcement came despite a new exodus, as hundreds of thousands of Rwandans
abandoned refugee camps in Tanzania. The refugees, however, did not return to
Rwanda, but rather headed away from the border. At the same time, another
100,000 refugees have pushed farther west into Zaire, according to the United
Nations.

Canada, which has taken the lead in organizing the relief effort, has scheduled
a meeting in New York on Friday for officials of nations who have pledged help
to decide whether a military mission is still necessary. Raymond Chretien,
Canada's Ambassador to the United States and a special United Nations envoy to
Central Africa, said at the United Nations today that the meeting would be
"crucial to the future of the force."

Mr. Chretien said that while the refugee situation around Rwanda remained fluid,
the opportunity for an effective international mission would pass if action were
not taken soon.

The State Department issued a statement today saying that the United States
remained "deeply concerned" about the refugees still in Zaire, as well as the
fighting between Zairian rebel groups, the Zairian Army and Hutu militia groups
that fled Rwanda. But it made no mention of any international relief effort.

In the month since President Clinton announced that the United States was ready
to contribute as many as 4,000 American troops to a relief mission, the
willingness to conduct an operation has waned. Once refugees began leaving Zaire
for Rwanda, the original plan to send more than 10,000 troops to the region was
scaled back to one with only 1,000.

Late last month, the United States endorsed a more modest mission to deliver
food to refugees by airdrops.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              913 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                    December 13, 1996, Friday, FINAL EDITION

CENTRAL AFRICA: Rwandans shun help, home: Refugees flee into hills

BYLINE: JULIET O'NEILL; THE OTTAWA CITIZEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. B1 / Front


Gripped by fear, hundreds of thousands of refugees in Tanzania abandoned camps
and unexpectedly headed inland to the bush, instead of home to Rwanda Thursday,
as the United Nations special envoy recommended a full-time roving diplomat be
appointed to try solving the Central Africa crisis.

As envoy Raymond Chretien, Canada's ambassador to the United States, warned that
the diplomat's job will be exhausting and difficult -- he described his own
five-week, 55,000-kilometre mission as "painful" -- humanitarian agencies were
taken by surprise by an orderly exodus of refugees from Tanzanian camps into the
hills, away from food and water supplies. UN refugee officials had been
encouraging them to return to Rwanda, assuring them it is safe.

The development underlined anew the unpredictable difficulties of a crisis that
Chretien said has been quelled but is far from over. Most of the attention so
far has been on Zaire, where at least 100,000 refugees are trapped in a region
controlled by Zairean rebels backed by the Rwandan government.

Canadian Lt.-Gen. Maurice Baril is scheduled to report today in New York to the
steering group of the scaled-down multinational military force on how he thinks
the mission should proceed. Officials of several Canadian aid agencies said they
hope something will be salvaged of the force that was originally going to
consist of as many as 12,000 troops to provide safe escort home for refugees and
help aid workers provide food, water and medicine.

At his news conference after submitting a report to UN Secretary General Boutros
Boutros-Ghali, Chretien said the need to deploy a multinational force "has very
much diminished" since 600,000 Rwandan refugees in Zaire returned home a few
weeks ago.

But he recommended the appointment of a "well-known and internationally
respected figure" to work full-time as a shuttle diplomat finding a long-term
political solution. The diplomat would be based in Nairobi and outfitted with
good communications equipment, a small plane and a staff of at least a dozen
people. A part-time diplomat could be appointed immediately, with a full-time
envoy to be chosen when the next UN secretary general takes office in 1997.

Chretien says Zairean President Mobutu Sese Seko, if his health improves, will
return to Zaire next week from France where he is convalescing from cancer
surgery. Mobutu's mere appearance on TV had had "a calming effect" in Zaire.

While officials of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees described a
"well-organized and orderly" exodus of refugees in Tanzania in the wrong
direction, Chretien professed uncertainty. "They're walking, but what is not
clear is where they're walking to," he said. "Is it back to Rwanda or is it to
other countries ? It will take a little bit longer before we know."



LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1996

LENGTH: 471 words

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1996 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              914 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                        Financial Times (London,England)

                  November 30, 1996, Saturday LONDON EDITION 2

Zaire mission approved
INTERNATIONAL NEWS DIGEST:

SECTION: NEWS: INTERNATIONAL; Pg. 03

LENGTH: 88 words

DATELINE: Ottawa


Zaire mission approved

A multinational humanitarian mission that could airdrop food to refugees in
eastern Zaire was approved in Ottawa, Canada, yesterday by ambassadors from 14
countries. About 20 countries, including the US, Britain, France, South Africa,
Spain, Senegal, Japan and Uganda are expected to provide support to the force,
Canadian officials said.

The force, to be based in Entebbe, Uganda, will carry out reconnaissance to
determine where the refugees are and how best to get food to them. AP, Ottawa

LOAD-DATE: December 02, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Digests

                   Copyright 1996 The Financial Times Limited


                              915 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 30, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Aid for Refugees Approved; Airdrops Are Possible

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 295 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, Nov. 29


Diplomats from 14 countries met in Ottawa today and gave formal approval for a
relief mission that could airlift food to refugees in eastern Zaire if
necessary. The mission is to be based in Entebbe, Uganda, and reconnaissance
flights from there will search eastern Zaire for refugees.

Paul Heinbecker, Assistant Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs for Canada, said
that at least 100,000 refugees remain in Zaire, but that it is unclear where
they are or whether they need emergency supplies.

Canadian officials said troops for the mission, which is being directed by
Lieut. Gen. Maurice Baril of Canada, could be ready to supply relief goods by
early next week. About 260 Canadian troops are already in central Africa, where
they have been waiting for instructions.

"General Baril and his people are going to be on the spot, and they are going to
make an assessment" on whether airdrops are needed, Mr. Heinbecker told
reporters. The United States has agreed to support the mission, as have Britain,
Cameroon, France, Italy, Japan, Senegal, Spain, South Africa and other nations.

In the last two weeks, the goal has diminished from urgent to uncertain. Prime
Minister Jean Chretien of Canada initially called for 10,000 troops to open up
safe passage for an estimated one million Rwandans trying to leave Zaire.
Today's action seems to end the possibility of such a military operation.

Mr. Heinbecker acknowledged that airdrops may not be the best way to feed the
refugees, but said that may be the only option left in inaccessible areas.
Relief groups fear that food dropped by parachute could end up in the hands of
guerrilla fighters, not the refugees. But African authorities have so far
refused to allow relief groups to organize road convoys.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              916 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                   November 30, 1996, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Canadian-led group puts force in Zaire to locate, aid refugees: UN steering
committee mobilizes humanitarian mission for fear of starvation or another
slaughter.

BYLINE: JULIET O'NEILL; OTTAWA CITIZEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 417 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


A multinational force to locate and help tens of thousands of refugees in the
forests of eastern Zaire was formally agreed to Friday with the establishment of
a 14-member steering group.

The agreement involving Canada, the United States, Europe, Japan and Africa
capped a week during which Ottawa struggled to salvage an international
humanitarian commitment that had fallen prey to doubts and disarray as more than
500,000 ragged refugees walked home to Rwanda.

No one can say for sure how many are left in Zaire and their condition.

Italian Ambassador Andrea Cambiaso said his country had sent aircraft over the
region Friday to try to get an assessment.

A situation report given to the ambassadors by the Canadian military said a
group of some 40,000 refugees are returning to Rwanda. Other reports said they
were driven out of their camp in eastern Zaire by gunfire from Zairean rebels.

The ambassadors were also told there is a much larger group of at least 100,000
who have taken refuge in the hills.

The flow of refugees returning voluntarily to Rwanda had been reduced to a
trickle following the massive exodus that took place two weeks ago.
Approximately 1.2 million refugees had originally fled to Zaire in the aftermath
of the genocide that struck Rwanda in 1994.

"Not everybody wants to go home," said Paul Heinbecker, the senior Canadian
foreign affairs official who heads the steering group which reports to the
United Nations Security Council. Heinbecker dubbed the steering group "a
coalition of the willing."

Canadian officials, stretched thinly in their efforts to mobilize a
multinational force, have been frustrated by the slow pace of developments and
stung by widespread criticism of their proposal to air drop food into the
region.

Some Canadian officials are privately worried that a tragedy of starvation or
slaughter -- or both -- is unfolding in the forests as the humanitarian mission
takes shape at a snail's pace.

In the Commons, a haggard-looking Foreign Affairs Minister Lloyd Axworthy
defended the efforts against the criticism of the Bloc Quebecois. "I would like
to point out to the member that there is total confusion in Zaire -- there are
two premiers," Axworthy replied.

He said Raymond Chretien, Canada's ambassador to Washington who is serving as a
special UN envoy trying to figure out a political solution to the crisis in the
region, is expected to report within a few days to UN Secretary-General Boutros
Boutros-Ghali.


LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1996 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              917 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 29, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Ottawa Talks Set for Aiding Zaire Refugees

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 357 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, Nov. 28


Diplomats and senior officials from at least 15 nations committed to supporting
a Canadian proposal to provide aid to refugees in Central Africa will meet in
Ottawa on Friday to discuss the framework for a scaled-down mission to aid
refugees.

Canada's Foreign Minister, Lloyd Axworthy, insisted today that a multinational
effort was still necessary. Lieut. Gen. Maurice Baril, the Canadian officer
leading the United Nations mission, will still be in charge of carrying out the
mission.

Mr. Axworthy said that 15 nations, including the United States, South Africa,
Senegal, Malawi, France, Belgium, Denmark and Japan, and the Office of the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the International Committee of
the Red Cross had agreed to take part.

The latest proposal put forward by Canada calls for the establishment of a
headquarters operation in Uganda, stepped-up air reconnaissance in eastern Zaire
to get better information on the number of refugees still there, and finally
airdrops of food, water and medicine, but only if relief organizations believe
that will be helpful.

Following an address to the National Press Club in Ottawa this morning, Mr.
Axworthy told reporters that the Rwandan Government had agreed to allow relief
agencies to cross into eastern Zaire for 10 days to help determine the number of
remaining refugees and their needs.

Canadian officials say they believe there could be as many as 200,000 refugees
still in Zaire, although they admit that the number could be far fewer. Their
hope is that at the very least, an international relief mission would be able to
get a better idea of conditions on the ground in Zaire. That information would
then be used to determine whether an airlift of supplies was necessary.

Rwandan officials have called the Canadian's estimates of refugees vastly
overstated and have expressed some opposition to the Canadian proposal to use a
Ugandan airport in Entebbe as an airdrop headquarters.

Prime Minister Jean Chretien, traveling in Asia, said today that international
efforts must continue until the situation in central Africa is fully resolved.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              918 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 28, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. BACKS CANADA ON AIRLIFT TO FEED RWANDAN REFUGEES

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1017 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 27


Forgoing the idea of an international military operation on the ground in Zaire
and Rwanda, the United States today endorsed a proposal by Canada to deliver
food to thousands of Rwandan refugees still in eastern Zaire by dropping it from
the air, probably using an airport in neighboring Uganda.

But while agreeing to take part, the United States voiced a series of concerns
that officials in the Clinton Administration insisted had to be addressed before
the airdrops could begin, raising the possibility that even this more modest
relief operation might not take place.

Those concerns include trying to insure that the planes making the airdrops are
not fired upon, and securing the approval of the Government of Rwanda in
particular, as well as that of rebel leaders in eastern Zaire. It was the
rebels' military campaign that set off the refugee crisis on Zaire's border with
Rwanda in October.

Today the Government of Rwanda, which now opposes any international military
force on its territory as unnecessary, strongly criticized the new proposal. It
objected to the plan to use the airport in Entebbe, Uganda, as a base for the
airdrops and reiterated that estimates of the number of Rwandans still in Zaire
were exaggerated.

The new mission was proposed on Tuesday by Canadian officials frustrated by a
fraying international consensus on the need for a relief mission. It reflected
another significant scaling back of the multinational operation to aid the
Rwandan refugees and encourage their return from Zaire, to which they fled in
1994 after a convulsion of ethnic violence.

Two weeks ago, under pressure from relief groups and other nations warning of a
human catastrophe, President Clinton announced that the United States was
prepared to send as many as 4,000 American soldiers to Central Africa as part of
a 10,000-member multinational force led by Canada.

Since then, however, more than half a million Rwandan refugees have poured back
across the border into Rwanda, greatly easing the crisis and, in the view of a
seemingly relieved Clinton Administration, the need for sending American ground
troops to eastern Zaire, as was first proposed.

The plans for airdrops would not require combat forces from the United States,
although its planes could take part, officials said. The United States has
already sent an advance team of 399 support troops, mainly to Uganda and Kenya,
and Secretary of Defense William J. Perry, traveling to Italy, said they were
prepared to assist the Canadian-led airdrops. Officials here said the support
troops in the region could be the extent of the American contribution, although
it was possible a couple hundred more could go.

Any airdrops are not expected to begin for several days, as military planners
work out the details. Canada also sought today to rally support from other
nations that had agreed to take part in the original mission. Neither the United
States nor Canada has ruled out an expanded military operation in the future,
although officials here said the airdrops could well be the extent of any
mission.

In a statement, the White House said the United States would work with Canada
and other nations to draft plans for the airdrops, withholding its final
approval. "Once that planning is complete, we expect to make a final decision as
to what can be accomplished effectively and what precise role the U.S. will
play," the statement said.

The President's national security adviser, Anthony Lake, said he believed that
the American concerns about the airdrops could be resolved. "I hope they all
have solutions," he said. "We just don't have the solutions yet."

While the airdrop option eliminates some threats that a multinational ground
force would have faced, the new plan has raised a host of practical and
logistical problems.

There are disputes about the number of refugees in Zaire and only sketchy
information about their condition and their exact location, complicating the
precision of any food airdrops. Thousands of the refugees, mostly Hutu from
Rwanda, also appear to be caught in the fighting between Hutu militias that
carried out the massacres of Tutsi in Rwanda two years ago and Zairian rebels
trying to force the refugees to return home.

Canada nonetheless felt strongly that some relief effort was needed, officials
here said, and proposed the airdrops as a compromise after support for a more
significant mission waned with each passing day.

Canada's Foreign Minister, Lloyd Axworthy, announced the interim proposals on
Tuesday at a meeting of Parliament in Ottawa, while other Canadian officials
discussed them with officials from the United States and other nations at the
Canadian Mission to the United Nations. Lieut. Gen. Maurice Baril, the Canadian
chosen to command a multinational military force, arrived in Rwanda today and
met with Paul Kagame, Rwanda's leader, to seek support for a mission.

Under the Canadian plan, the multinational force would set up a headquarters in
the region, probably at Entebbe, which could become the base for a broader
mission involving forces on the ground to support relief efforts, if the
situation worsened.

In discussions with Canada, officials in the Clinton Administration and at the
United Nations expressed concerns to the Canadians that the airdrops, performed
from a high altitude to avoid hostile fire, could pose a danger to refugees if
the heavy pallets fell on them during the operation. They also fear, one senior
Administration official said, that the food could end up in the hands of the
fighting forces rather than reaching hungry refugees.

The Administration, like the Government in Rwanda, also wants to make sure the
airdrops do not discourage the Hutu refugees from returning home. "If you drop
this food in eastern Zaire, what's to encourage the people to go back?" an
official said.

Officials said that if the refugees continued to return home, even the airdrops
might not be needed.

"The situation," an Administration official said, "is improving faster than the
international community can come up with a response."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              919 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 25, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

West Agrees on Relief Role for Africa Force

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 210 words

DATELINE: STUTTGART, Germany, Nov. 24


Western military leaders today agreed that any international force for Central
Africa would be limited to helping deliver relief and helping refugees go home
but they did not specify the number of troops or whether a force would even be
dispatched.

The military leaders also did not say where the troops would be based or what
their rules of engagement would be. The contingency plans from the three-day
meeting, held at United States European Command in Germany, now go to political
leaders for consideration.

"The objectives of such a force would be strictly humanitarian," said Gen.
Maurice Baril of Canada, who has been named to head the force. "The force would
be politically and militarily neutral."
 "The mission of a multinational force, as we have defined it, would be to
facilitate the delivery of humanitarian assistance and voluntary repatriation of
refugees and displaced persons," he said. The general told a news briefing that
Western and African military leaders came to a consensus that at least 250,000
refugees were still roaming eastern Zaire.
 The number was close to an earlier United States estimate of 202,000 but far
below the 700,000 refugees that aid groups and the United Nations say remain
there.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              920 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 21, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

All Aid Is Political

BYLINE: By Chester A. Crocker;  Chester A. Crocker, a professor of diplomacy at
Georgetown University, was Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs in
the Reagan Administration.

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 735 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Nothing better illustrates the lessons and risks of humanitarian intervention
than the fast-changing situation in Central Africa. It reminds us that
intervention (just like nonintervention) is an inherently political action with
inescapable political consequences.

The United States should have learned this in Bosnia, Somalia and northern Iraq.
Labeling an intervention humanitarian may temporarily allay the qualms of public
opinion, but it does not dilute the political effects on a region. By the same
token, if we decide not to step into a crisis, our determination not to get
involved does not free us of political and ethical responsibility for our
inaction.

Look at Africa. Our post-Somalia paralysis prevented us in 1994 from calling for
Western intervention in Rwanda to halt the killing of a half million Tutsi by
the Hutu majority. This butchery could have been prevented by the prompt
deployment of an international force with a mandate to isolate and disarm the
extremist Hutu militia and to detain their leaders for a war crimes tribunal.

When the tide turned and a Tutsi rebel movement (now Rwanda's Government) drove
nearly a million Hutu refugees into Zaire, we rushed in to set up refugee camps.
But our belated humanitarian spasm did nothing to help the refugees free
themselves from the grip of the Hutu militia leaders; nor did we act to turn
these warlords over to a war crimes tribunal. The refugee camps soon disrupted
Zaire, inflaming Hutu-Tutsi tensions within the country, aggravating relations
between Zaire and Rwanda and providing a base for the Hutu militia to raid
Rwanda.

Thus, two years later, the Clinton Administration was facing allied and public
pressure to "do something" about the impending disaster in Zaire. Despite the
obviously political nature of the problem, the United States and Canada were
determined to confine any action to a "humanitarian" response, even asking for
the agreement of local players before we intervened. Pentagon planners, fearing
any proximity to ethnic strife, made it clear that the mission was not to
police, disarm, detain or arrest anyone.

To the Administration's vast relief, the refugee crisis largely resolved itself
last weekend. No American ground troops will be sent to Zaire, although military
airlifts and logistical support will be needed. How did it all change so
quickly? Because the Rwandan Government and Zairean rebels took matters into
their own hands, fearing that the United States might make the problem worse by
sustaining and nourishing the camps.

Zairean rebels (mostly local Tutsi acting in coordination with the Rwandan
Government) liberated perhaps 600,000 Hutu refugees near Goma from their militia
warlords; the same thing is likely to happen at camps farther south. Hutu
civilians rushed to return to Rwanda, while Hutu remnants of the former Rwandan
Army and the militia and their followers are moving deeper into Zaire.

So what are the real lessons here? Most important, if America is not prepared to
use its muscle to address underlying political problems, it should think twice
about creating and sustaining humanitarian safe havens and corridors. When
humanitarian action becomes unavoidable, it is equally vital that we link it to
a broader political strategy.

In Central Africa, that strategy should have been to clamp down on the Hutu
extremists who organized the hatred through radio campaigns and unleashed the
carnage in the first place. It is not too late to provide help in this regard;
we should share our intelligence reports with some area governments and provide
legal expertise and financial aid to further the efforts of the International
Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda.

Also, greater care should be taken in describing problems in Central Africa and
elsewhere as "ethnic conflicts." If it were that simple, would hundreds of
thousands of Hutu be streaming back to their villages in Tutsi-controlled
Rwanda?

Civil wars are too volatile and costly to handle reactively. Before violence
erupts again, we should more actively push Central African nations toward
political solutions. In moving on from the Mobutu era and solving its many
problems -- revitalizing the economy, instituting democracy, restoring
collapsing institutions -- Zaire needs help from the United States and its
allies. And it needs help now, before the next "humanitarian" crisis forces our
hand.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              921 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                  November 20, 1996, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

World mulls mission fate: 10,000 troops on hold as refugees' needs debated

BYLINE: LES WHITTINGTON, SOUTHAM NEWSPAPERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 334 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


Officials from Canada and other countries will decide what happens next with the
Canadian-conceived African aid mission during four days of world meetings
beginning today at the United Nations.

The military mission prompted by Prime Minister Jean Chretien appears more in
doubt than ever now that the United States is reassessing its commitment to send
troops to help Rwandan refugees.

The unexpected exodus of half a million refugees from troubled eastern Zaire to
their homeland in Rwanda has undercut the proposal to send 10,000 troops from 20
countries to the region.

Chretien says international officials will determine later this week if troops
are still going to central Africa.

Representatives of countries hoping to help out in Africa will talk at the UN
today, followed by a meeting of military planners in Stuttgart, Germany, on
Thursday or Friday.

The military force envisioned last week was intended to protect and aid hundreds
of thousands of Rwandan refugees in danger of starvation as a result of military
clashes in eastern Zaire. But the mass movement of the refugees back to Rwanda
has altered the picture.

The Rwandan government is disputing the need for armed foreign troops, saying
that Rwanda will only accept foreign soldiers planning to help with aid projects
to resettle refugees returning from Zaire.

More than 100 Canadian soldiers continued to wait on Tuesday in Entebbe, Uganda,
for clearance to go to Rwanda.

Many participants in the rescue project are convinced a major international
effort is still required to assist the mass of weakened, hungry and often ill
refugees pouring back into Rwanda.

UPDATE

- The issue: The future of the aid mission to central Africa.

- What's new: Plans for the Canadian-led mission are more in doubt than ever as
the situation near the Zaire-Rwanda border changes.

- What's next: The fate of the aid project will be decided at a series of
international meetings beginning today at the United Nations.


LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Associated Press/Canadian Press photos / REFUGEE CRISIS: A
Rwandan refugee struggles to pull her sister into an aid truck

Photo: Associated Press/Canadian Press photos / Cpl. Christian McEachern of CFB
Calgary waits in Entebbe, Uganda for results of talks on peacekeeping mission

               Copyright 1996 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              922 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 20, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Groups Accepting Donations to Africans

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 428 words


Following is a list of private American organizations accepting contributions
for relief services in Rwanda and Zaire. Agencies listed are members of
Interaction, a Washington-based association of more than 150 nonprofit relief
groups with offices in the United States; Interaction compiled the list.

 Adventist Development and Relief Agency
12501 Old Columbia Pike
Silver Spring, Md. 20904


 American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee
711 Third Avenue
New York, N.Y. 10017

 American Jewish World Service
989 Avenue of the Americas
New York, N.Y. 10018

 Africare
440 R Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20001

 American Red Cross
P.O. Box 37243
Washington, D.C. 20013

 American Refugee Committee
2344 Nicollet Avenue South, Suite 350
Minneapolis, Minn. 55404

 Baptist World Aid
6733 Curran Street
McLean, Va. 22102-6005

 Brother's Brother Foundation
1501 Reedsdale Street, Suite 3005
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15233-2341

 Care
151 Ellis Street N.E.
Atlanta, Ga. 30303-2439

 Catholic Relief Services
P.O. Box 17090
Baltimore, Md. 21203

 Christian Reformed World Relief
2850 Kalamazoo Avenue S.E.
Grand Rapids, Mich. 49560

 Direct Relief International
27 South La Patera Lane
Santa Barbara, Calif. 93117-3251

 Doctors Without Borders
11 East 26th Street
New York, N.Y. 10010
 Doctors of the World
375 West Broadway
New York, N.Y. 10012

 Food for the Hungry
7729 East Greenway Road
Scottsdale, Ariz. 85260

 International Medical Corps
12233 West Olympic Blvd., #280
Los Angeles, Calif. 90064-1052

 International Rescue Committee
122 East 42d Street
New York, N.Y. 10168-1289

 Interchurch Medical Assistance
P.O. Box 429
New Windsor, Md. 21776

 Lutheran World Relief
P.O. Box 92949
Rochester, N.Y. 14692

 Map International
2200 Glynco Parkway
P.O. Box 215000
Brunswick, Ga. 31521-5000

 Mercy Corps International
3030 S.W. First Avenue
Portland, Ore. 97201

 Operation USA
8320 Melrose Avenue, Suite 200
Los Angeles, Calif. 90069

 Oxfam America
26 West Street
Boston, Mass. 02111

 Salvation Army World Service Office
615 Slaters Lane
P.O. Box 269
Alexandria, Va. 22313

 Save The Children
P.O. 975R
Westport, Conn. 06881

 United Methodist Committee on Relief
Advance 3101275-4
475 Riverside Drive
New York, N.Y. 10115

 U.S. Committee for Unicef
333 East 38th Street
New York, N.Y. 10016

 World Relief
Department 3
P.O. Box WRC
Wheaton, Ill. 60189

 World Vision
P.O. Box 70005
Tacoma, Wash. 98471-0005

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              923 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                  November 20, 1996, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Powers debate African aid level: The U.S. has cut its commitment to send troops
to assist refugees but Canada's prime minister says the mission is still on.

BYLINE: LES WHITTINGTON; SOUTHAM NEWSPAPERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 691 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


Officials from Canada and other countries will decide what happens next with the
Canadian-conceived African aid mission during four days of meetings in several
locations, beginning today at the United Nations.

The military mission prompted by Prime Minister Jean Chretien appears more in
doubt than ever now that the United States has cut its commitment to send troops
to help Rwandan refugees.

U.S. Defence Secretary William Perry said Tuesday that American troops meant to
support the rescue mission through transport and supply activities will be
reduced to 1,000 from 4,000. Plans to add 1,000 combat troops will be dropped.

The unexpected exodus of half a million refugees from troubled eastern Zaire to
their homeland in Rwanda has undercut the proposal to send 10,000 troops from 20
countries to the region.

Chretien says the mission is still on but no one in the government seemed sure
Tuesday what that mission might entail.

"The situation is evolving," the prime minister told the House of Commons.

"At the present moment, as we are speaking, the mission is still there."

But he added: "It might be that, in the next three or four days, we might be in
a situation where the armed forces will not be needed any more."

Representatives of countries hoping to help out in Africa will talk at the UN
today, followed by a meeting of military planners in Stuttgart, Germany, on
Thursday or Friday. And Don Boudria, federal minister for international
cooperation, is hosting a conference of aid donors in Geneva on Saturday to
coordinate the delivery of emergency supplies to the refugees.

The military force envisioned for Central Africa last week was intended to
protect and aid hundreds of thousands of Rwandan refugees in danger of
starvation as a result of military clashes in eastern Zaire. But the mass
movement of the refugees from Zaire back to Rwanda has quickly altered the
picture.

The Rwandan government is disputing the need for armed foreign troops, saying
that Rwanda will only accept foreign soldiers planning to help with aid projects
to resettle refugees returning from Zaire. More than 100 Canadian soldiers
continued to wait Tuesday in Entebbe, Uganda, for clearance to go to Rwanda.

President Bill Clinton said he still intends to contribute $ 140 million US for
humanitarian aid.

And many participants in the rescue project are convinced a major international
effort is still required to assist the mass of weakened, hungry and often ill
refugees pouring back into Rwanda.

In Kigali, Rwanda, Canadian UN envoy Raymond Chretien said he "would be very
surprised" if the aid mission did not go ahead in some form.

He echoed talk at the Rwanda-Zaire border in saying there are strong rumors that
the second major group of Rwandan refugees, around the southern end of Lake
Kivu, may start to move back into Rwanda in the next few days.

Foreign Affairs Minister Lloyd Axworthy acknowledged that the nature of the
African mission is shifting.

"Now that there's a new phase of humanitarian and peace-building activities, we
want to determine how we can ensure coordination of international activities for
those purposes," he told reporters in Ottawa.

Reform House leader Deborah Grey criticized the Chretien government in the
Commons for mounting an aid project that was "all over the map." But the prime
minister said the over-all aim of helping the Rwandan refugees as part of a
United Nations force was still intact.

Defence Minister Doug Young bridled at media questions about the value of the
fast-changing mission.

He said that, given the problems in Central Africa, few people would have
thought a week ago that 500,000 refugees could have been convinced to return to
Rwanda without anyone having "to fire a shot" or "deploy troops."

He said Canada deserved credit for bringing about improvements in the situation
in Zaire.

"Who did it?" he angrily asked a reporter. "Was it Michael Jordan and [the
movie] Space Jam, or what? This is serious business and we haven't been working
like hell on this for the past week just because we didn't have anything else to
do."


LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1996 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              924 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 18, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

NEWS SUMMARY

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 861 words



International   A3-8

TOUGH WELCOME FOR RWANDANS
Thousands of returning Rwandan refugees began to grapple with a host of new
problems -- finding food, jobs and housing -- as they tried to recover lives
interrupted by two years of war and flight. A1

REFUGEES RETURN FOR 3d DAY
For a third day, hundreds of thousands of refugees trudged back home to Rwanda,
but United Nations officials said that the pace of the exodus had slackened and
that it would probably end by today. A6

CROATIA AFTER TUDJMAN
The death of President Franjo Tudjman of Croatia, who is ill with cancer, would
probably strengthen hard-line nationalists hostile to a Muslim-Croat federation
and the idea of democracy. A8

RUSSIAN SPACE PROBE FAILS
An unmanned Russian probe that failed to break out of Earth's orbit re-entered
the atmosphere above the Pacific Ocean west of South America and apparently
crashed into the sea, American officials said. A3

WORLD FOOD SUMMIT ENDS
The World Food Summit ended in Rome with a vague pledge to do better, Vatican
opposition to population control and American reservations about an
internationally recognized right to be fed. A3

FIGHTING CRIME IN IRELAND
The hottest political debate in Ireland is about rising crime, and the hottest
theater ticket is for a production of "West Side Story" by the inmates of
Mountjoy Prison. A8

CRISIS MANAGEMENT FOR CLINTON
News analysis: A week of crisis management left President Clinton nearly forced
to go along with decisions on Bosnia and Central Africa by allies tired of
waiting for American leadership. A6

ROMANIA VOTES FOR CHANGE
Romanians made a clear break with the past and elected a mild-mannered geology
professor and reformer, Emile Constantinescu, as President. A8

Dreux Journal: The politics of jobs and immigrants. A4

National   A12-15, B10-11

A SOCIETAL SHIFT
Some segments of the black population are beginning to experience a turnaround
in many areas, after suffering through a decade of rising drug use, growing
violence, disintegrating families and declining measures of health. A1

CHILD PORNOGRAPHY RING INQUIRY
For two years, the Federal Bureau of Investigation has been looking into a
computer programming and telemarketing business that is run by inmates at a
Minnesota correctional institution after agents seized child pornography files.
A1

PUBLISHING VS. ACADEMIC NEEDS
The scholars still need to publish to get university jobs, but the publishing
industry is balking at books lacking commercial appeal. A1

C.I.A. EMPLOYEE CALLED A SPY
A career Central Intelligence Agency employee has been arrested on charges that
he passed highly classified information to the Russians over a period of several
years. A1

CONFLICT AT CRASH HEARINGS
Top executives of Valujet Airline and Sabretech, the two companies that blame
each other for the crash of a DC-9 in the Everglades last May, will both appear
in hearings on the crash. A12

BOOKS FOR CHILDREN
From a living room in Eugene, Ore., a one-woman charity called The Libri
Foundation, gives children's books to libraries in towns with populations under
5,000. A12

DEMOCRATS DISMISS FUND-RAISER
The Democratic National Committee dismissed John Huang, the senior fund-raiser
who was suspended last month following reports that he had solicited
questionable contributions. A12

ANGER OVER ORGAN DONATIONS
The decision to move people with acute liver failure to the top of the list for
transplants has alarmed patients with chronic liver disease and angered some
doctors. A15

A BOYCOTT UNDER WAY
A boycott and demonstrations cut business at some Texaco stations, but it was
difficult to determine how many sales the company had lost at its 14,000 retail
outlets. B10

Metro Report   B1-9

FIGHTING PATAKI ON WELFARE
Now that Gov. George E. Pataki has released his long-awaited plan to reconstruct
New York's $4 billion welfare system, the debate has shifted to the Legislature,
where many Democrats are already vowing to block major portions of his
initiative. A1

Business Digest   D1

Arts/Entertainment   C11-17

Museum tours feature celebrity voices. C11
The casting director Bernard Telsey. C11
Theater: "The Waste Land." C11
Music: Billy Bragg. C12
"Cosi Fan Tutti" and "Rigoletto" at the Met. C13
Kate and Anna McGarrigle. C14
Dance: A Barnard sampler. C15
Books: "The Rain on Macy's Parade." C14
Television: Purcell's "Dido and Aeneas" on PBS. C16

Sports   C1-10

Football: Colts down Jets. C1
Cardinals top Giants. C1
Broncos crush Patriots. C3
N.F.L. roundup C8
Columns: On College Football C2
Anderson on Broncos C3
On Pro Football C4

Obituaries   B12

Editorials/Op-Ed   A16-17

Editorials

Deciding which patients to save.
Eastern Europe's voters.
Say yes to superstores.

Letters

Anthony Lewis: Hatred at large.
Bob Herbert: An elephant's tale.
William Safire: With an all-new cast.
Henry Alford: Step aside? Who, me?
Linda Chavez: The Hispanic political tide.

Chronicle   B6

Bridge   C14

Crossword   C14

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              925 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                    November 17, 1996, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Aid too little, too late - PM

BYLINE: PETER STOCKLAND, CALGARY HERALD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. F1 / FRONT

LENGTH: 272 words

DATELINE: Rome


Rwanda's prime minister has roasted world leaders for doing too little, too late
to help one million refugees streaming back from eastern Zaire.

As hundreds of thousands continued to pour back over the border from refugee
camps where they'd been trapped by Hutu militias for nearly 30 months, Prime
Minister Pierre Rwigema said they can thank countries such as Canada and the
U.S. for leaving them in the "hellish situation" so long.

"The Rwanda government demanded many times that the international community
disarm these criminals and separate them from the rest of the refugees with a
view to accelerating repatriation of our countrymen, but our appeals were never
heard," Rwigema told the UN World Food Summit here.

"All the suffering, all the deaths could have been avoided if the political will
really existed to find a durable solution to the refugee problem," he added.

Rwigema also sharply criticized the aborted plans for a Canadian-led rescue
mission to open a corridor to the refugee camps, saying the whole scheme was
decided without bothering to consult any of the neighboring African countries
involved.

His comments came after leaders of those countries -- Uganda, Tanzania, Eritrea
and Rwanda -- had a hurried morning meeting at the food summit with Kenyan
President Daniel Arap Moi to denounce the international action.

Moi was also bitterly critical of western countries for concocting the aid
scheme in defiance of a declaration the so-called Great Lakes countries issued
in Nairobi earlier this month.

The declaration demanded they be closely consulted on any such interventions.


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1996 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              926 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 16, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

TURMOIL IN CENTRAL AFRICA: THE RESPONSE;
As Thousands of Refugees Leave Camps in Zaire, U.S. Reassesses the Need for
Military Force

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 6;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1019 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 15


With hundreds of thousands of Rwandans leaving refugee camps in Zaire for home,
the United States has begun to reassess the need for a military force, led by
Canada, to rescue the refugees and open the way for delivery of relief aid,
senior Pentagon officials said today.

Earlier, President Clinton reiterated American willingness to take part in the
force, should one remain necessary, and said contingency planning was
proceeding.

But a senior Pentagon official later said that "because of the huge departure of
people from the camps, everyone has to reassess the situation."

"No final decisions have been taken and no deployment orders have been signed,"
the official said, adding that the situation was being "continually reassessed."

Officials in France and at the United Nations, as well as leaders of many
international aid organizations, insisted that a military force would still be
needed to insure that relief aid reaches the refugees. But the Rwandan
Government countered that international intervention was no longer required to
protect the refugees, who are primarily Rwandan Hutu, or separate them from the
Hutu-led militia in Zaire, which had, in effect, held them hostage.

With the situation in Central Africa still unclear, the United Nations Security
Council voted unanimously this evening to authorize the force through March 31,
the first step in clearing the way for relief workers to begin aiding and
feeding the estimated 1 million refugees. The Americans had insisted on a
four-month limit, though the mission could be ended earlier if circumstances
warranted.

The resolution, sponsored by 30 countries, gives troops "all necessary means" to
defend themselves. But the hope is that the force will not be required, and the
Canadians say they have no intention of trying to disarm militia forces.

Without the force, "people will continue to die in Zaire in appalling numbers,"
said Robert Fowler, Canada's representative at the United Nations. Lieut. Gen.
Maurice Baril of Canada will command the force, for which at least 4,000
American troops have been promised. Mr. Fowler said today that more than 10,000
troops had been pledged by a growing list of nations, including several from
Africa.

American participation in an international force is considered indispensable,
but Washington has been highly skeptical from the beginning about the goals,
funding, command and duration of the effort.

At a news conference before leaving for Hawaii on the first leg of a trip to
Asia, Mr. Clinton called the surge of Hutu refugees from the camps "very good
preliminary news."

One of the considerations in weighing international intervention has been how to
separate noncombatant refugees from the Hutu militia that controlled them in the
camps.

While the Rwandan Government said today that the sudden change made an
international force unnecessary, Mr. Clinton said it was still too early to make
that judgment.

"I think we have to be prepared for the prospect that we will still have to have
some presence there," he said. "The world's most powerful nation must not turn
its back on so many desperate people and innocent children who are now at risk."

The French Government said in a statement that it believed that an international
force was still required to help with the logistics of a rescue operation. At
the United Nations, Sylvana Foa, the spokeswoman for Secretary General Boutros
Boutros-Ghali, said that United Nations officials also believed the force
remained necessary, especially for logistical support. If the troops are not
needed for their full four-month mandate, diplomats said, they could return
early.

"Do we still need the multinational force? Yes we do," Ms. Foa said. "The
situation in the region is very, very volatile. When you have hundreds of
thousands of people on the move, you need the kind of logistics help only the
military can provide. The mandate of this force is to save lives. There are lots
of people out there in the banana plantations, in the jungles, in the mountains.
They're cold, they're hungry and we need to reach them."

Officials of international aid organizations also defended the necessity of a
military intervention. They emphasized that while the refugee movement is
welcome, only the healthiest refugees would be on the roads. The larger and more
fundamental questions of relations between Rwanda and a crumbling Zaire, between
Rwanda and Burundi, and between Hutu and Tutsi in general, remain unresolved.
The Hutu militia, which fled deeper into Zaire, would not disappear as a
problem, the officials said.

Lionel Rosenblatt, president of Refugees International, said, "Those who are on
the roads are in the best shape, and we don't know the toll of the dead and
dying." He said it was vital to continue with the deployment of the
international force for its original relief purpose, which should now be less
dangerous than before.

At the International Rescue Committee, Gerald Martone, director of emergency
response, said that his organization has been able to confirm only that 60,000
to 70,000 refugees have actually crossed into Rwanda, while several hundred
thousand remain in the bush along the border, and hundreds of thousands more are
scattered farther into Zaire.

Many of them appear to be trying to reach Goma, in Zaire, where there is some
food and water, and it is not clear they intend to voluntarily return to Rwanda,
as the United States hopes. Mr. Martone said his organization's staff in the
field believe that the news of an international force may have been a factor
propelling the refugees home.

"It is important time not to pull the plug on what may have been a critical
factor. The Council resolution was the right thing to do.

Iain Guest, an African specialist and senior fellow at the U.S. Institute of
Peace, said: "We may just be saved on this one by the skin of our teeth. It
seems to spare us the ultimate nightmare: to go into the Mgunga camp to try to
feed refugees and separate them from the armed militia, and have neither the
force or the mandate with which to do it."

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              927 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 15, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Sets Conditions for Using Troops to Aid Refugees in Zaire

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE

SECTION: Section A;    Page 7;    Column 1;    Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 552 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 14


Plans for an international military mission to support relief efforts for a
million refugees in eastern Zaire bogged down today as Canadian and American
officials haggled over details.

As the Security Council stood by ready to give the operation its official
approval, the Canadians, who have volunteered to command the roughly
15,000-troop force, and the Americans, who have offered several thousand
soldiers, argued over the duration and conditions of the operation, officials
said. The refugees, trapped by fighting between rival factions near the
Zaire-Rwanda border, are said to be dying in large numbers from hunger and
thirst.

American officials said they want to wait for a cease-fire in the sporadic
fighting between Hutu militias and Zairian Tutsi rebels.

Other countries have said the situation is too dire to wait. At a news
conference today, Lieut. Gen. Maurice Baril of Canada, who has been chosen to
command the force, evaded a direct comment on this issue by saying he expected
to have the agreement and cooperation of the countries in the region.

Canada said today that it was prepared to keep troops in the region for up to
six months; the White House has insisted on a limit of four months.

About 1,000 United States soldiers are expected to capture and hold the airport
at Goma, Zaire, and open a corridor from there to the Rwandan border. Another
2,000 to 3,000 Americans would be at staging bases outside Zaire.

Both sides agree that an international force would not attempt to disarm
combatants, including Hutu militias that have been attacking Rwanda from bases
in or around refugee camps in Zaire. Today, some of those fighters told
reporters they would attack foreign troops.

The Security Council cannot authorize and dispatch the force until remaining
American concerns are met. Diplomats said they hoped a council resolution could
be adopted on Friday, a week after the issue first came to the council's agenda.
Deputy Foreign Minister Gordon Smith of Canada said today that a resolution was
"pretty close."

As talks went on at Canada's Mission to the United Nations with the Americans,
who were led by the national security adviser, Anthony Lake, General Baril
addressed a news conference where he outlined his plan for operations in Central
Africa: The Canadian-led force would establish staging bases at Entebbe, Uganda;
Kigali, Rwanda, and Nairobi, Kenya. Two forward operating bases would be set up
at Goma and Bukavu, in eastern Zaire. Land corridors would be opened from Rwanda
and Uganda into Zaire.

General Baril said the task would be primarily to provide security and support
to relief organizations that will try to reach refugees now wandering over large
areas of Zaire. The force would also help the United Nations High Commissioner
for Refugees set up conditions necessary for the voluntary repatriation of
refugees, but would not intervene in local disputes or force Rwandan refugees
back to their country.

Human rights organizations are opposed to a forced return of Rwandans, mostly
Hutu who fled the country after a Tutsi-led army took over the country. Many
Hutu now in Zaire were involved in the massacre of Tutsi in the spring of 1994
and fear retribution. On the other hand, Rwanda does not want the Hutu to
establish large camps in Zaire.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              928 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                        Financial Times (London,England)

                  November 14, 1996, Thursday LONDON EDITION 1

US to send troops to Zaire

BYLINE: By Patti Waldmeir in Washington and John Kampfner in London

SECTION: NEWS: INTERNATIONAL; Pg. 04

LENGTH: 312 words

DATELINE: London


The US said last night it would join a multinational force to intervene in
Zaire, contributing 1,000 ground troops and several thousand others to provide
logistical support.

The development paves the way for the despatch of a Canadian-led force of up to
20,000 troops commanded by a Canadian general - which could be controversial in
the US.

Britain said last night it was ready to contribute "constructively" to the
force, provided a satisfactory plan could be worked out.

British ministers said they had been heartened by pledges of large-scale US
involvement in military action to ensure safe passage of humanitarian aid,
especially around the regions of Goma and Bukavu bordering Rwanda.

The United Nations Security Council is expected to provide a mandate for the
operation by the end of the week.

The US laid down strict conditions for participating in the force. US troops
would be used to secure the Goma airfield in eastern Zaire and to provide
security along a corridor from Goma to the Rwanda border.

Most of the US troops would be based outside Zaire. Mr Mike McCurry, the White
House spokesman, said no attempt would be made to separate militia forces from
refugees in conducting the oper-ation.

The White House appeared to have acted in haste in making the decision, playing
down concerns about the precise purpose of US intervention in its keenness to
respond to international pressure for immediate action.

More than 1m long-term Rwandan and Burundian Hutu refugees are cut off from all
aid by the conflict between Zairean troops and Tutsi rebels, who hold much of
east Zaire.

Thousands are feared to be dying in the hills and mountains.

The multinational force is supposed to help repatriate them but cannot force
them to go home from the vast Mugunga refugee camp near Goma or from hills and
forests where they are hiding.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Stories

                   Copyright 1996 The Financial Times Limited


                              929 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                        Financial Times (London,England)

                   November 14, 1996, Thursday USA EDITION 1

US set to join international force in Zaire

BYLINE: By Patti Waldmeir in Washington and Michael Holman in London

SECTION: NEWS: INTERNATIONAL; Pg. 06

LENGTH: 393 words

DATELINE: London


The US was last night expected to announce that it would join a multinational
force to intervene in Zaire.

The development paves the way for the despatch of a Canadian-led force of up to
20,000 troops.

The United Nations Security Council is ex-pected to provide a man-date for the
operation by the end of the week.

The White House appeared to have acted in haste in making the decision, playing
down concerns about the precise purpose of US intervention in its keenness to
respond to international pressure for immediate action.

White House officials said that up to 5,000 US troops might take part in an
overall force of 15,000, with up to 1,000 US ground troops involved, and the
rest used to ferry supplies.

Britain said last night it was ready to contribute "constructively" to a
multinational force in Zaire, provided a satisfactory plan could be worked out.

More than 1m long-term Rwandan and Burundian Hutu refugees are cut off from all
aid by the conflict between Zairean troops and Tutsi rebels, who hold much of
east Zaire. Thousands are feared to be dying in the hills and mountains.

The multinational force is supposed to help repatriate them but cannot force
them to go home from the vast Mugunga refugee camp near Goma or from hills and
forests where they are hiding.

The hazards facing the force were highlighted yesterday when the eastern Zaire
city of Goma was shelled, prompting UN officials to suspend their first
distribution of aid.

Rebels fired at an unidentifed aircraft as it made three passes over the city,
with rebels saying that they suspected French troops were on board.

Meanwhile, tensions between Zaire and Rwanda threatened to spill over into
Uganda following a Ugandan government announcement that its troops had killed
three Zairean soldiers after they and Zaire-based Ugandan dissidents had
attacked two border posts.

President Clinton was yesterday holding urgent consultations with Congressional
leaders over the proposed deployment. He also spoke by telephone to Prime
Minister Jean Chretien of Canada. Canada's participation is understood to be
conditional on US involvement.

US officials, keen to avoid the pitfalls which attended US military involvement
in Somalia, are wary of ordering any troop deployment until firm guidelines can
be worked out and a clear exit strategy agreed.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Stories

                   Copyright 1996 The Financial Times Limited


                              930 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 14, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Intervention Has a Price

BYLINE: By David Rieff;   David Rieff, the author of "Slaughterhouse: Bosnia and
the Failure of the West," returned from Central Africa last week.

SECTION: Section A;  Page 23;  Column 2;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 691 words


From the civil wars in Somalia and Bosnia to the current crisis in Zaire, it has
been the international aid agencies who have most strongly and consistently
called for military intervention in humanitarian disasters. Only through a
combination of military muscle and logistical support, they insist, can we hope
to rescue starving people like the more than one million Rwandan Hutu refugees
now cut off from aid in eastern Zaire.

In the short term, this argument usually makes practical sense. Lives are saved
when soldiers protect relief workers. The problem is that in their increasing
zeal to advocate a military response, the humanitarian advocates have in effect
become the last interventionists of the post-cold war world, a position fraught
with political and moral risks that Westerners ignore at our own peril.

To intervene out of humanitarian concern without any idea of what comes next
often does as much to worsen the situation in the long run as it does to
alleviate things in the short term.

In Somalia, where the United States became involved to a large extent because of
pressure from groups like CARE, we learned how quickly humanitarian
interventions can go awry. In Bosnia, the relief effort became a fig leaf behind
which the international community could rationalize its refusal to take any
concrete action that might have defused the crisis early on.

Sending international troops to Zaire without considering "comprehensive answers
for the tensions that exist in the region" will likely prove to be no solution
at all, said Thabo Mbeki, the Deputy President of South Africa. One does not
need to look far to see that Mr. Mbeki's reservations are well founded.

It was partly because of the efforts of advocacy groups like Refugees
International that the United States committed itself in eastern Zaire in 1994
after the Rwandan civil war. Yet that humanitarian effort, undertaken with such
moral certainty, was never part of a larger commitment to helping Rwanda rebuild
its political structure after the airlifts stopped. This made the current
refugee crisis in Zaire inevitable.

Humanitarian activists, along with America's allies, apparently persuaded a
hesitant United States to take a leading role in a new multinational military
force in eastern Zaire. The White House spokesman, Michael McCurry, said
yesterday that several thousand United States troops would soon be deployed,
approximately 1,000 of which would be inside Zaire for up to four months, and
American objections to the Canadian-led intervention had faded.

To hear many of the humanitarians tell it, there are either no risks to such an
action, or the moral imperative for it is so great that to refuse is
unthinkable. In this respect, the oratory of post-cold war humanitarianism is
eerily reminiscent of that of the cold warriors who believed that there was no
part of the world in which Communism did not have to be confronted.

Any intervention in the Great Lakes region of Africa will be ad hoc, organized
far too quickly to take into account what will happen if the mission goes wrong
and if the force has to fight, as in Somalia. More dangerous is the potential
political effect of intervention on the rest of the region.

Humanitarian agencies insist that the force will just save lives, but what if it
destabilizes other parts of the area? For example, little consideration has been
given to how the insertion of this foreign army will affect the ongoing civil
war in Burundi and Zaire's survival as a unified state.

It is this understanding, not hard-heartedness, that lay behind the reservations
of the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. John Shalikashvili, and
senior members of the Clinton Administration about intervening in Zaire. Yet as
images of starving Africans were broadcast on CNN, international pressure made
American involvement virtually inevitable.

Americans should not let the moral fervor of interventionism blind them to the
implications of military action. If the United States goes in, it should be with
the understanding that such humanitarian moves are rarely if ever quick, clean
or easy.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              931 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 14, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Clinton Offers U.S. Troops to Help Refugees in Zaire

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 6;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1350 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 13


President Clinton gave initial approval today to the deployment of several
thousand United States troops as part of a Canadian-led mission to avoid a human
catastrophe and bring food and water to hundreds of thousands of Rwandan
refugees in Zaire, where aid supplies have been cut by recent fighting.

The White House announced that if certain conditions were nailed down in the
next few days, the troops would take part in a four-month long effort involving
as many as 15,000 troops from a dozen nations and led by a Canadian commander
with a United States officer as his deputy.

"The President has decided that the United States is willing, in principle, to
participate in a limited fashion in this mission as long as certain conditions
are stipulated to," Michael D. McCurry, the White House press secretary, said at
a mid-day briefing.

The announcement cleared the way for the United Nations Security Council to work
on a resolution, already drafted by Canada, to authorize the international
mission, perhaps by week's end. The statement was issued after a morning phone
call between Mr. Clinton and Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada and a night
of consultations between Canadian and American officials at the White House.

Mr. Clinton is expected to make a public statement about the Zaire deployment,
as well as the role the United States plans to play in Bosnia next year, by
midday Friday when he leaves for a trip to Australia and Asia, built around an
Asian economic summit conference.

[In another matter related to the use of American troops abroad, NATO's
Secretary General said he came away from a meeting with Vice President Al Gore
with the conviction that the United States would keep some troops in Bosnia
after the current mandate ends. Page A10.]

Administration officials said United States forces sent to East Africa would
secure the airfield at Goma -- at the heart of relief operations in war-ravaged
eastern Zaire -- as well as a three-mile corridor from Goma to the Rwandan
border. The mission is intended to encourage the refugees, Hutu who fled Rwanda
when a Tutsi-led Government won power in 1994, to return home.

They would also assist in the airlift of other troops to the region. American
officials said that about 1,000 United States troops would be stationed in Zaire
and an additional 2,000 to 3,000 troops would be based in neighboring countries
like Kenya and Uganda.

Mr. Clinton's national security team has been quietly consulting with world
leaders for weeks about the crisis in Zaire.

Administration officials said the caution and reserve with which the United
States has approached an intervention force was not related to Mr. Clinton's
re-election campaign but to a desire to avoid a repetition of the American
experience in Somalia in 1993, when a similar relief mission conducted during a
chaotic civil conflict drew American forces into the fighting there.

Mr. McCurry said today that under the conditions set by the United States, the
international mission in eastern Zaire would be "very clearly defined" as an
effort of four months' duration to enable civilian relief organizations to
deliver aid to hundreds of thousands of Rwandan refugees who have been cut off
by fighting between Zairian rebels, the Zairian Army and Rwandan Hutu militias.

He said the force would also help the voluntary return of refugees to Rwanda,
using relief supplies as a magnet. In Kinshasa, Zaire's capital, the Canadian
special United Nations representative, Raymond Chretien, said food and clinics
would be set up in Rwanda or along the protected corridor to encourage people to
head home.

But how successful such an effort would be is a major question. Hutu guerrillas
living among the refugees have used propaganda and intimidation during the last
two years to prevent them from returning home, and many refugees fear reprisals
by the Tutsi-led Rwanda Government.

Attacks on Rwanda by Hutu guerrillas based in the huge refugee camps near the
border were a factor leading to the recent eruption of fighting. But the
tentative plans for an international relief mission do not appear to include
steps to prevent re-establishment of such camps.

Mr. McCurry said that the international force would not disarm the militias and
would not force its way into the refugee camps or police them.

He said that the force would follow "very robust rules of engagement." Defense
Secretary William J. Perry said the American decision to take part in the force
was contingent on securing commitments by African countries involved,
principally Zaire and Rwanda, not to interfere with the mission. He said contact
would also have to be made with rebel forces in the area. "Our assumption is
that we would have their acquiescence and cooperation," Mr. Perry said.

The Defense Secretary said an infantry battalion and armored helicopter gunships
would be sent to Zaire to insure that the American mission was protected.
American forces would report to an American general who would be deputy
commander of the international force serving under Lieut. Gen. Maurice Baril, a
Canadian officer.

Diplomatic efforts led by Richard Begosian, a special American envoy, were under
way to secure the permission of the governments in the area to allow the
international force in.

"We are talking about a dangerous environment," said Glyn Davies, a State
Department spokesman, "and that means that the work over the next couple of days
on the ground has to be impressing upon the militias the importance of ceasing
their fighting and cooperating with the international effort that's to be
mounted."

But there were many signs that numerous difficulties remained. In an indication
of the resistance the international forces might encounter, two teams from the
Agency for International Development were turned back by Zairian rebels, Mr.
Davies said.

Anthony Lake, the White House national security adviser, as well as Under
Secretary of Defense Walter Slocombe and Lieut. Gen. Peter Pace, an Air Force
officer who is the director of operations for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, are to
be sent to the United Nations on Thursday to put the final touches on the
mission with the Canadians, officials said.

Mr. McCurry said the President was also awaiting word from a Pentagon assessment
team in Central Africa and a diplomatic team working in the region.

The President "reserves the right to review" the final plans, Mr. McCurry said,
although he affirmed that Mr. Clinton "agrees that U.S. participation in this
important humanitarian mission is vital."

American officials said troops could begin flying into Zaire as early as next
week. A Pentagon official said the 1,000 American troops bound for Zaire would
include about 600 soldiers from the 1st Battalion, 508th Airborne Infantry
Regiment, based in Vicenza, Italy. The official said that about 150 Air Force
personnel would set up a refueling base at the Goma airport.

Congressional leaders expressed concern for the plight of the refugees in Zaire,
but said their support for the mission hinged on the Administration setting
specific goals and a specific strategy for removing American troops.

"We're just waiting to get a briefing from the White House about their goals and
time line," said Lauren Sims, a spokeswoman for Representative Newt Gingrich,
Republican of Georgia, the Speaker of the House.

Susan Irby, a spokeswoman for Senator Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi, the
majority leader, said Mr. Lott was taking a "wait-and-see attitude" until the
questions are resolved.

But at least one influential legislator, Senator Jesse Helms, Republican of
North Carolina, raised objections to paying for the American deployment with
money from the Pentagon's operations budget, the same account that pays for
operations like pilot training.

"If they don't find an alternative funding source, then they'll have a lot of
trouble here," said Marc Thiessen, a spokesman for Mr. Helms, who is chairman of
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. "This smells like Somalia all over
again."


LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Goma residents pounced on supplies sent to Zaire for refugees
dying of thirst and starvation. The fighting that has kept aid from reaching
refugees, most of them Rwandans, has also cut the normal food supply. Page A14.
(Associated Press) (pg. A1)

Map: "UPDATE: Guarding the Relief Teams"

The United States may join Britain, France and other countries in a Canadian-led
military operation to aid starving Rwandan refugees in eastern Zaire. About
1,000 American ground troops will secure the Goma airfield and a corridor from
there to the Rwandan border, while several thousand more Americans will provide
support in nearby countries.

Map shows locations of refugee camps in the region. (pg. A14)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              932 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                  November 13, 1996, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

PM says troops to Zaire moral duty

BYLINE: SOUTHAM NEWSPAPERS AND THE CANADIAN PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1 / FRONT

LENGTH: 380 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


Prime Minister Jean Chretien, saying it is Canada's moral duty to save starving
refugees in Zaire, wants Canadian troops to begin heading to central Africa
within days.

Chretien said he offered to make Canada the lead country in a proposed United
Nations multinational relief force for Zaire out of frustration over the lack of
action by the world.

"Canada may not be a super-power but we are a nation that speaks on the
international scene with great moral authority," Chretien told a news conference
Tuesday. "Now is the time to use that moral authority to stop suffering, avert
disaster.

The prime minister says Canada is ready to send 1,500 soldiers to help bring
humanitarian aid to refugees in Zaire even though he realizes it is a risky,
uncertain challenge.

The United States, whose involvement is crucial to the success of any aid
effort, was still deliberating on its possible role as of Tuesday.

But Chretien says since Saturday he has enlisted 10 other countries to support
the UN project with between 8,000 and 10,000 troops. France, Spain, Italy and
South Africa will join the force.

Its aim will be to bring humanitarian aid to more than one million refugees
facing starvation and sickness after being forced out of camps along the
Zaire-Rwanda border by military clashes. Most of the refugees are members of the
Hutu ethnic group who fled Rwanda in fear of reprisals for a Hutu-led genocide
against Tutsis two years ago.

Canadian troops could begin arriving in Zaire within 48 hours once the UN passes
a resolution approving a rescue plan. The first contingent would be about 350
Canadian soldiers.

In New York, UN spokesman Sylvana Foa said "we're feeling a lot better about
life in general than we were (Monday). And thank you Canada, it's a brave thing
you're doing and we think you're terrific."

Chretien was asked if Canada was not taking a risk by sending peacekeepers back
to Africa when the problems that arose during the last mission -- to Somalia in
1992-93 -- are still being investigated.

"I cannot give any guarantee" that troops will not get caught up in the military
strife behind the problems in Zaire, Chretien admitted. But he said the new
mission is designed to bring humanitarian aid, not to intervene.


LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1996 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              933 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                        Financial Times (London,England)

                 November 13, 1996, Wednesday LONDON EDITION 3

Canada ready to lead UN mission to Zaire

BYLINE: Nairobi

SECTION: BACK PAGE - FIRST SECTION; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 389 words

DATELINE: Nairobi


A multinational force of up to 20,000 troops could soon be helping to save more
than 1m Hutu refugees trapped in eastern Zaire.

Mr Boutros Boutros Ghali, the UN secretary-general, confirmed yesterday that
Canada was ready to lead a multinational force to provide security for relief
operations, ending a deadlock that has prevented effective intervention in the
central African crisis.

Mr Boutros Ghali said he expected a Security Council mandate within days for a
force that would probably be derived from more than 12 countries. He hoped the
operation would receive logistical support from the US.

"People are talking of between 10,000 and 20,000 (troops)," he told reporters
before the opening of the UN World Food Summit in Rome. He said South Africa and
some European states, including Italy and Spain, had agreed in principle to take
part.

Doubts over the precise role and powers of the force have delayed the
initiative, which will have to halt the fighting between rebels holding most of
north and south Kivu on Zaire's eastern border and exiled Rwandan Hutu
hardliners controlling access to the refugees.

While France was pushing for Washington to take the lead, both the US and
Britain balked at the lack of a coherent plan of action. They may now play a
support role, with Washington providing logistical assistance.

The US and Britain continue to have reservations about an intervention prompted
by compassion and pressure from aid agencies, but which may not address the
political causes of the tragedy.

In particular, it remains unclear whether the force will be given a mandate to
disarm the Hutu militia responsible for the genocide in Rwanda in 1994, and who
shelter within the ranks of the refugees.

As a nation with no colonial history in Africa, Canada appears to have won wide
acceptance to command a force that must be seen as neutral by all parties to
this complex conflict. Coming from a country speaking French and English,
Canadian officials are also well-placed to communicate with the Zairean
government, the rebels, hardliners and Rwandans brought up in Anglophone Uganda.

Canada said it was unlikely to be able to send more than 1,000 troops, and
warned that without substantial US support "it could be two weeks before our
troops are on the ground". UN Food Summit, Page 4

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Stories

                   Copyright 1996 The Financial Times Limited


                              934 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 13, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

CANADA PROPOSES ZAIRE AID FORCE

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE

SECTION: Section A;   Page 1;   Column 1;   Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 993 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 12


Canada has volunteered to lead an international force into eastern Zaire to
bring food and protection to more than a million refugees displaced by fighting,
United Nations officials said today.

The mission envisioned by the Canadians involves 10,000 to 15,000 ground troops
from about a dozen nations, including the United States, who would protect aid
convoys intended to avert an impending catastrophe of starvation and disease.

But an official announcement in Ottawa of Canada's plan was canceled at the last
minute today when the Clinton Administration did not, as expected, approve the
plan after a high-level meeting at the White House.

While officials at the United Nations said a Canadian-led force was likely to be
deployed, and could be in place as early as next weekend, the Americans
continued to block the necessary approval by the Security Council.

Any force that would wade into the conflict in Zaire would face a quandary of
how to bring aid to the hundreds of thousands of refugees there, most of them
from Rwanda, without also aiding the thousands of guerrillas living among them.
[News analysis, page A8].

Administration officials said they feared a foreign venture into a chaotic
landscape of rival militias and endangered refugees could end in disaster.

One White House official, calling the Canadian plan rudimentary, said that the
United States was still looking for firm answers on how a mission would be
undertaken, what the command and control structure would be, and what the
objective would be on the ground once troops arrived.

"We did learn from Somalia," said Glyn Davies, a State Department spokesman,
referring to the 1993 operation in which 18 American troops died trying to
capture a fugitive faction leader after being sent to Somalia to rescue starving
Somalis.

"We learned some lessons," he said. "And one of them is that you have to be
awfully certain when you go into something this big, this complicated, this
potentially dangerous, that you know what you're getting into; you have a plan
for dealing with it; you have some conception of the outcome that you'd like to
see; and you have some conception of how it's going to end for you as well. In
other words, getting in is fine and important, but you have to get out
eventually."

The Pentagon said today that while there had been no decision on whether the
United State would participate in a peacekeeping force in Central Africa, an
armed team of 40 American soldiers and other military officials would travel to
the region on Wednesday "to conduct an assessment of the humanitarian
situation."

The team, which will be led by Maj. Gen. Edward P. Smith, will include "a broad
range of specialists, such as medical, engineering, civil affairs and security
assistance," the Pentagon said in a statement.

Lieut. Col. Nancy Burt, a Pentagon spokeswoman, cautioned that "the deployment
of this team enhances the military's ability to respond but does not represent a
commitment by the U.S. to deploy other forces."

Despite the American misgivings, several European and African countries have
offered troops to join the Canadians, including France, which has been the most
vociferous advocate of a rescue mission.

After the prospect of quick American approval dissolved late today, Canada's
Prime Minister, Jean Chretien, said in Ottawa that he planned to talk with
President Clinton tonight.

The Canadian officer who would lead the force, Lieut. Gen. Maurice Baril, also
canceled a meeting with United Nations officials and flew instead to Washington
for talks. Mr. Chretien told reporters in Ottawa that Canadian troops could be
deployed within 48 hours and urged the United Nations Security Council to meet
"as soon as possible" to authorize the operation, which would insure the safe
delivery of food and other relief goods, and to protect refugees in Zaire and
ultimately assist them to return home to Rwanda or Burundi. "U.S. participation
is vital to the success of any mission," Mr. Chretien said.

At the State Department today, Mr. Davies said the Administration still hoped
for "an effective cease-fire" that would allow relief agencies access to the
refugees. He described the Canadian plan as one of "a number of proposals."

United Nations officials said the all-but-agreed military plan for eastern
Zaire, where more than a million refugees are wandering around inhospitable
terrain without food and water after being driven out of camps by fighting,
included an American operation to seize and hold the airport at Goma, the
largest city in the region, so that relief supplies could be flown in.

The plan, involving troops from at least a dozen nations, had been expected to
be endorsed today by American officials after a White House meeting. The
Canadians planned to follow that announcement with a news conference formally
nominating General Baril to head the force.

The mission had been discussed over the weekend by Americans and their Western
allies, as well as by African nations and the Organization of African Unity,
American and foreign officials said. The Canadians proposed a force of 10,000 to
15,000 troops, and said that the mission should last from four to six months.

Early today in Paris, France's Defense Minister, Charles Millon, had urged the
Clinton Administration to stop stalling. "Intervention is urgent and
procrastination by some countries is intolerable," Mr. Millon said in a radio
interview, hours before a visit by Secretary of State Warren Christopher. "The
United States must not drag its feet any longer."

A disaster assessment team from the United States Agency for International
Development was in the area today, where doctors have begun reporting some cases
of cholera.

Most of the Rwandan refugees in Zaire are Hutu who fled the takeover of Rwanda
by a Tutsi-led Government after Hutu militias and other officially inspired mobs
massacred hundreds of thousands of Tutsi.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 22, 1996, Friday

CORRECTION:

A front-page article on Nov. 13 about Canada's offer to lead an international
force to help Rwandan refugees included an erroneous given name supplied by the
Pentagon for an American officer heading a team sent to Africa to assess the
situation. He is Maj. Gen. Edwin P. Smith, not Edward.


                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              935 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                        Financial Times (London,England)

                  November 12, 1996, Tuesday LONDON EDITION 1

Supplies reach east Zaire

BYLINE: By Antony Goldman in Kigali and Michela Wrong in Nairobi

SECTION: NEWS: INTERNATIONAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 346 words

DATELINE: Nairobi


International aid agencies delivered food and medical supplies to east Zaire
yesterday for the first time since rebel forces annexed the area last month,
ending a two-day stand-off between the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees and the guerrillas.

But prospects for international military intervention continued to recede,
despite a renewed call by Mrs Emma Bonino, European Union commissioner, for the
urgent despatch of a UN force. "We are against the re-establishment of refugee
camps inside Zaire. But at the same time we need to find these refugees and send
them back home, but to do this we need a military force to open up corridors for
them," she said.

Britain and the US, however, expressed reservations. "If there is to be a
military operation it must be carefully planned, it must have clear objectives
and there must be an exit strategy," Mr Michael Portillo, the UK defence
secretary, said.

Although Mr Herve de Charette, the French foreign minister, sought yesterday to
play down reports of Franco-American differences over the Zaire refugee crisis,
Paris has so far been unable to win support from Washington for its call for a
5,000-strong intervention force.

While the deliveries yesterday constituted the first step in the establishment
of humanitarian corridors being called for by the UN, they are unlikely to reach
any of the million Hutu refugees trapped by fighting between the Zairean rebels
and exiled Rwandan extremists.

The supplies were taken to a sports stadium for distribution to hospitals in
Goma, crammed with the victims of the last few weeks' fighting.

But until the question of security can be settled, no aid will get to the
hundreds of thousands of Hutu refugees trapped in the camp of Mugunga, on the
outskirts of Goma, or trekking deeper west into Zaire.

Continued shelling of Goma by the interahamwe militiamen and former Rwandan
soldiers in Mugunga has merely highlighted the difficulties of trying to help
the refugees without first neutralising the hardliners' hold on the refugee
population.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Stories

                   Copyright 1996 The Financial Times Limited


                              936 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                   November 12, 1996, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Canada pushes for world force in Zaire crisis: Chretien offers 1,500 troops,
report says

BYLINE: SOUTHAM NEWSPAPERS AND CITIZEN STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1 / Front


Canadian officials are attempting to create a multinational military force to
intervene in war-ravaged Central Africa.

A spokesperson confirmed Monday that Prime Minister Jean Chretien has had
discussions with about 15 world leaders to hasten efforts to rescue as many as a
million refugees who are facing starvation and disease following recent fighting
along the Rwanda-Zaire border.

"The PM is aware that the international community is obviously not moving fast
enough on this," the spokesperson in the Prime Minister's Office said.

"There are discussions taking place at this point" although there is no decision
as to the nature of Canada's role in the military force.

There was also no confirmation of news that Canada had volunteered to lead the
mission. A Reuters report from the United Nations said Canada's ambassador had
offered a substantial troop commitment to join troops already proposed by France
and Spain.

"There's no details, no confirmation on that yet," the official said.

CTV news reported Canada offered 1,500 troops for a force expected to total
10,000. CTV said an announcement about the offer will be made today.

But a spokeswoman in the office of Foreign Affairs Minister Lloyd Axworthy said
the question of whether to send Canadian troops to Africa is still under
consideration.

Catherine Lappe, director of communications in the Foreign Affairs department,
explained that Chretien and Axworthy were still contacting other government
leaders to work out the conditions of any possible troop commitment.

Lappe said that before the government would commit Canadian troops a number of
conditions would have to be met, in particular a clear mandate, certain funding
and firm assurances from other countries that they too would send troops.

Given that these negotiations are still under way, Lappe said "it is premature
to indicate that any further decision has been taken."

"The prime minister," she said,"will make the final decision."

"We will need other contributors, notably the United States," a senior diplomat
told Reuters, adding he believes Canada would also want Washington's
participation.

David Johnson, a foreign policy spokesman for the White House, said officials
were studying whether a multinational force could alleviate the suffering and
added that the United States is "actively considering" playing a role. Johnson
offered no time frame. However, a decision could come as soon as today.

The latest refugee crisis in Central Africa involves ethnic Hutus who fled
Rwanda in 1994 in fear of reprisals after the massacre of hundred of thousands
of Tutsis and moderate Hutus. The mass exodus led to more than a million people
living in primitive conditions in makeshift refugee camps.

Raymond Chretien, Canada's ambassador to the U.S., is in Rwanda attempting to
reach an agreement that will allow assistance to be delivered to the refugees.

The UN was able to secure an agreement Sunday with the Rwandan government and
the Zairean rebels to allow relief trucks into the city of Goma to feed hungary
local Zaireans and the few refugees trapped in the town.

UN and non-governmental relief workers have generally been prevented from
crossing the border to assess what shape the refugees are in and to start
delivering the mountains of food, medicine and other supplies that have been
building up in the region.

Chretien said he was encouraged by the first delivery of aid.

"The rebels there on the ground have agreed that this should happen," he told
CTV's Canada AM. "This is for me a positive development.

"But far more has to be done ... " The first priority is to feed the refugees
"wherever they are."

With files from Cox News Service

Update

The issue: More than one million refugees, many of them hiding in the forests of
eastern Zaire, are at risk of dying from starvation and disease. Aid workers
cannot help them because of fighting between Zairean troops and Tutsi rebels.

What's new: Prime Minister Jean Chretien spent the weekend contacting other
world leaders, trying to assemble an international force that could get aid to
the refugees. Canada has also reportedly offered to lead the force.

What's next: Canada will await a firm UN mandate, funding, and commitments from
other countries before formally agreeing to lead the humanitarian force, a
Foreign Affairs official said.



LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1996

LENGTH: 733 words

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1996 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              937 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                   November 6, 1996, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

UN may deploy 'neutral force' to help Hutus

BYLINE: REUTERS; CANADIAN PRESS; ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 498 words


African leaders urged the United Nations Security Council on Tuesday to rapidly
deploy a "neutral force" in eastern Zaire to help 1.2 million Hutu refugees
facing famine and epidemics.

At a summit in Nairobi, capital of nearby Kenya, seven east and central African
leaders said the force should create safe corridors to repatriate refugees to
Rwanda and Burundi and provide temporary sanctuary for the huge mass of people.

The leaders called for an immediate ceasefire in fighting between Zaire's
ramshackle army and ethnic Tutsi rebels who have captured parts of eastern Zaire
and its main towns.

The leaders of Kenya, Tanzania, Ethiopia, Uganda, Rwanda, Zambia, Eritrea and
the foreign minister of Cameroon attended the Nairobi summit.

However, Zaire boycotted the summit, saying it will not attend such talks until
foreign troops -- a reference to Rwanda -- leave its territory.

The summit outcome clearly passed the ball back to the world's powerful
countries, the permanent members of the UN Security Council, and told them to
organize a military intervention.

As they met, Raymond Chretien, Canada's ambassador to the United States,
prepared to travel to France where he planned to meet Zairese President Mobutu
Sese Seko today. Last week, the United Nations appointed Chretien as special
envoy to try to solve the crisis in central Africa.

Mobutu is at his villa in Nice after three months of prostate cancer treatment
in Switzerland. His spokesman Kabuya Lumuna says he will stay in France for a
while, then return home.

The difficulty of sorting out the crisis, was obvious when leaders at the
Nairobi summit said bona fide refugees should be separated from "intimidators"
-- thousands of former Rwandan government soldiers and militiamen mainly
responsible for killing about 500,000 of Rwanda's minority Tutsis and moderate
Hutus in 1994.

Those armed men fled Rwanda with civilians, to Zaire, after the genocide when
the the mainly Tutsi rebels took power in Rwanda.

The majority of the Hutu refugees refuse to go home, saying they would rather
die. Rwanda's jails already hold more than 80,000 Hutu genocide suspects and
many of the refugees have blood on their hands.

Meanwhile, in Montreal, Rwanda's ambassador to Canada said humanitarian aid for
refugees should be directed towards Rwanda to pave the way for the refugees'
return.

"Our population is living in miserable conditions," Valens Munyabagisha said in
Montreal. "We want the population to return home first and then aid to get to
Rwanda."

"It's a tragedy," Munyabagisha said. "The international community must mobilize
to provide humanitarian aid to this population."

Also Tuesday, a Canadian nun and eight other people earlier reported to have
been taken hostage during fighting in the eastern Zairese town of Bukavu are
safe, the Belgian Foreign Ministry said.

- The issue: Fighting in Zaire.

- What's new: African leaders appeal for UN intervention.

- What's next:


LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1996 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              938 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                   November 6, 1996, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

African nations appeal to major world powers for military intervention: Summit
seeks help for Hutu refugees

BYLINE: REUTERS-CANADIAN PRESS-ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

DATELINE: NAIROBI


African leaders urged the United Nations Security Council on Tuesday to rapidly
deploy a "neutral force" in eastern Zaire to help 1.2 million Hutu refugees
facing famine and epidemics.

At a summit in Nairobi, capital of nearby Kenya, seven east and central African
leaders said the force should create safe corridors to repatriate refugees to
Rwanda and Burundi and provide temporary sanctuary for the huge mass of people.

The leaders called for an immediate ceasefire in fighting between Zaire's
ramshackle army and ethnic Tutsi rebels who have captured parts of eastern Zaire
and its main towns.

The leaders of Kenya, Tanzania, Ethiopia, Uganda, Rwanda, Zambia and Eritrea,
and the foreign minister of Cameroon attended the summit.

Zaire boycotted it, saying it will not attend such talks until foreign troops --
a reference to Rwanda -- leave its territory.

The summit outcome clearly passed the ball back to the world's powerful
countries, the permanent members of the UN Security Council, and told them to
organize a military intervention.

As they met, Raymond Chretien, Canada's ambassador to the United States,
prepared to travel to France, where he planned to meet Zairean President Mobutu
Sese Seko today. Last week, the UN appointed Chretien as special envoy to try to
solve the crisis in central Africa.

Mobutu is at his villa in Nice after three months of prostate cancer treatment
in Switzerland.

The difficulty of sorting out the crisis was obvious when leaders at the summit
said bona fide refugees should be separated from "intimidators" -- thousands of
former Rwandan government soldiers and militiamen mainly responsible for killing
half a million of Rwanda's minority Tutsis and moderate Hutus in 1994.

Fled Rwanda for Zaire

Those armed men fled Rwanda with civilians, mainly to Zaire, after the genocide
when the mainly Tutsi rebels took power in Rwanda.

The vast bulk of the Hutu refugees refuse to go home, saying they would rather
die.

Rwanda's jails already hold more than 80,000 Hutu genocide suspects and many of
the refugees have blood on their hands.

With each passing day, less is known of the whereabouts of the refugees, now
without any UN protection or support since fighting forced the last
international aid workers out of Zaire on Saturday.

The rebel Tutsis declared a unilateral three-week ceasefire Monday, to allow the
refugees safe passage home.

Andre Kissase Ngandu, leader of the rebels in Goma, said their goal is to "free
all of Zaire. ... Mobutu is finished. Politically he is finished."

"Mobutu is a bad man," said Abele Totad, a rebel in Goma, which the Tutsi rebels
took in the fighting

"He is a dictator. We have no democracy. He discriminates against people. He
treats us like animals."

Valentine Moboya, a political science student, said Mobutu "ruined the country.
Zaire was once rich and prosperous, but now it is very poor."

In eastern Zaire, a Canadian nun and eight Europeans earlier reported to have
been taken hostage are safe, a Belgian Foreign Ministry spokesman said Tuesday.

"They are safe and out of the combat zone (and) it is not clear if they were
taken hostage or not."

The official said the nine people were in a town called Katana, 30 kilometres
north of Bukavu, scene of some of the fiercest fighting in clashes between the
Zairean-born Tutsi rebels and the Zairean army.

The political atmosphere in the Zairean capital, Kinshasa, remained tense
Tuesday as hundreds of people, defying a ban on anti-Rwanda demonstrations, set
up roadblocks and hijacked cars.


LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1996

LENGTH: 598 words

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Color Photo: AP Photo / A Zairean rebel stands guard at the
Zaire-Rwanda border on Tuesday. Behind him is a painting of the Zairean flag.
Rebel Tutsis have captured parts of eastern Zaire from the army.

               Copyright 1996 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              939 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                   October 24, 1996, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Refugee Hutus flee warfare

BYLINE: AP-CP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 359 words

DATELINE: KIGALI, Rwanda


Hundreds of thousands of refugees trekked across southeastern Zaire on Wednesday
-- an exodus of Hutus trying to avoid being trapped in battles between Zairese
troops and ethnic Tutsis.

Recent fighting between a Tutsi subgroup, known as Banyamulenge, and Zairese
troops has prompted an estimated 220,000 Hutu refugees to flee camps in eastern
Zaire, according to the UN refugee agency.

Zairese officials blame Rwanda for arming and abetting the Banyamulenge, who
have lived in eastern Zaire for several centuries. They claim it is the
Banyamulenge who have attacked the refugee camps, but there is no independent
confirmation.

Rwandan Foreign Minister Anatase Gasana said Wednesday that his country has
played no role in the conflict in eastern Zaire.

One million of Rwanda's 1.6 million refugees are in Zaire; the rest are in
Tanzania. They fled Rwanda in 1994 during a civil war that left some 500,000
dead, mostly Tutsis slain by militias backed by the Hutu government. Tutsis now
head Rwanda's government.

Canada condemned the fighting and said it is concerned about instability in the
whole Great Lakes region in central Africa.

In a joint news release from Ottawa, Foreign Affairs Minister Lloyd Axworthy and
Secretary of State for Latin America and Africa Christine Stewart encouraged
restraint and "an immediate return to calm and dialogue."

In Washington, U.S. State Department spokesman Nicholas Burns said the United
States agreed with the UN refugee agency that the "present unpredictable
situation could lead to a massive population displacement, more civilian deaths
and a humanitarian disaster."

He said the department has directed the U.S. ambassadors in Zaire and Rwanda to
do everything possible to defuse the tensions.

"We think that we're dealing here with a major humanitarian disaster, there's no
question about that," Burns said. He had no precise count on the numbers of
refugees who have fled because of the fighting.

UN World Food Program spokeswoman Brenda Barton said there were supplies for
only three to four days in the agency's warehouses in Bukavu, Zaire's eastern
provincial capital.


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1996 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              940 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                    June 26, 1996, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Award winner inspires youth

BYLINE: DAVE POMMER, CALGARY HERALD

SECTION: SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 451 words


They are generations and cultures apart. She is tiny and soft-spoken. He is tall
and lanky.

But Sadako Ogata, 68 and Chris Jenkins, 26 share kind eyes, a Rotary experience
and a deep commitment to heal the suffering they see in this world.

Ogata -- who grew up in Japan and has been an academic and diplomat -- is the
United Nations high commissioner for refugees. She was Japan's first female
Rotary Ambassadorial Scholar and attended Georgetown University in Washington,
D.C. in 1951.

Jenkins -- who calls Laramie, Wyoming home -- is also a Rotary Ambassadorial
scholar who recently returned from working with orphaned and abused children in
Chile. She's now on his way to a UN refugee camp in Kenya as part of a special
United Nations-sponsored youth experience .

Jenkins and Ogata met before she was honored at the Rotary International
Conference Tuesday with the Rotary Award for World Understanding.

Ogata announced the award's $ 100,000 US grant will fund an environmental
program for refugee children in east and central Africa.

She said the award was also recognition of the courage and devotion of the more
than 5,000 staff in her office.

"You are expressing solidarity with the millions of destitute victims of armed
conflict and human rights violations around the world," she told Rotarians. "I
deeply appreciate this."

Other previous winners of the Rotary honor include former U.S. president Jimmy
Carter and Pope John Paul.

Ogata hopes that the program she is launching will educate African children how
environmental damage from refugee camps can be minimized.

Refugees often flee environmental catastrophes, only to create the same problem
where they huddle by the hundreds of thousands in a safe haven as they forage
for firewood and shelter.

Ogata, whose visits to refugee camps in more than 40 countries have drawn
attention to the millions she has sought to help, hopes young people like
Jenkins will aspire to help the suffering.

Jenkins, who wants to become a documentary film maker, exchanged gifts with
Ogata at their special meeting.

He biked the 10,000 kilometres from Wyoming to his post in Chile and filmed his
trip for National Geographic magazine.

"It was important to represent my country abroad," he said of his journey to
South America. "But it is more important to represent those countries I visited
to us here for life."

Ogata is a booster of education to promote worldwide tolerance and
understanding.

She urged Rotarians to do what they can to ease the plight of refugees in speech
after receiving her award.

"My office stands for the same fundamental objective of service to humanity as
Rotary International," she said.


LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Color Photo: OGATA: Accepts Rotary award for World Understanding

               Copyright 1996 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              941 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 26, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Harold Trobe Is Dead at 82; Helped Resettle War Refugees

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

SECTION: Section B;  Page 8;  Column 5;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 516 words


Harold Trobe, a key figure in efforts to rescue and resettle hundreds of
thousands of Jewish refugees from war-ravaged Europe, died on Monday at his home
in Gainesville, Fla., where he had retired in 1980. He was 82.

The cause was cancer, his family said.

Mr. Trobe spent 36 years overseas for the American Jewish Joint Distribution
Committee and the Hebrew Immigration Aid Society, starting in 1944. His
assignments as a country director for the committee took him to places with
great concentrations of human suffering.

He was in charge of the agency's commitments to finance the movement of
refugees, feed, shelter and clothe them and provide medical attention. He also
traveled in the United States to lecture and raise money.

Born in Beaver Falls, Pa., the son of a rabbi, Mr. Trobe graduated from the
University of Pittsburgh and earned an master's degree in 1937 from what is now
the Columbia University Graduate School of Social Work. German immigration to
the United States was on the rise at the time, and he found work in Pittsburgh
to retrain and find jobs for the new arrivals and care for their children.

He turned to fund-raising and was increasingly engrossed in the plight of
European Jews. In 1944 he joined the Joint Distribution Committee, which
appointed him its overseas field representative and sent him to Lisbon, its
European headquarters.

Portugal was then a way station for refugees from German-occupied Europe, many
of them Jews. Largely because of his efforts, two shiploads of refugees were
able to sail for Palestine in the face of diplomatic opposition.

The end of World War II in 1945 left an immense mass of displaced people all
over Europe. Mr. Trobe was sent to Czechoslovakia, an early focal point for
displaced people.

As the situation stabilized there in 1946, he went on to Milan as the
committee's director for northern Italy. With long gaps between the arrival and
departure of displaced people, Mr. Trobe and his assistants cared for the
well-being of many of them.

After a stint in Vienna, he returned to Italy in 1952 as countrywide Joint
Distribution Committee director. He remained there for five years, focusing on
the flight of Jews from North Africa.

He then served as the director general of the Hebrew Immigration Aid Society for
Europe and North Africa for five years, and four more in Rio de Janeiro in the
same position for all of Latin America. From 1966 until his retirement, he
worked for Joint Distribution Committee in Israel.

In an interview with The Jerusalem Post in 1969 he remembered local authorities'
complaints of illegal entry by refugees. "How they get across the border is not
my business," he said he told them, "but the minute they come across, they are.
If they come across illegally, that's also not my concern.

"I'm not the police. I feed them."

Mr. Trobe is survived by his wife of 58 years, Ruth Weiner Trobe; two sons,
Jonathan D. of Ann Arbor, Mich., and Dr. Thomas O. of Zurich; a daughter, Susan
T. Goldbard of Millbrae, Calif.; a brother, Jacob L. of Haverford, Pa., and six
grandchildren.

NAME: Harold Trobe

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harold Trobe (Associated Press, 1950)


TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              942 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                   November 18, 1995, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

STATS QUO

BYLINE: COMPILED BY SUN STAFF; VANSUN

SECTION: INSIGHT; STATS QUO; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 217 words


* Approximate number of restaurants in

Greater Vancouver: 3,000

New York City: 15,000.

Tokyo: 80,000

(Sources: Restaurant and Food Services Association of B.C., The Guardian)

* Estimated number of babies born every year in China without brains or with
exposed spines: 80,000 to 100,000

(German Press Agency)

* Number of people found frozen to death on Moscow's streets since the onset of
a cold wave at the beginning of November: 25

(German Press Agency)

* Number of prisons in Canada: 41

Halfway houses: 16.

Number of offenders, including those on day parole: 14,800.

Incarceration rate: 130 per 100,000 population, second highest behind United
States among western democracies.

Average annual cost of incarcerating an offender: $ 47,760.

Average annual cost of supervising an offender on parole or statutory release: $
9,422.

(Basic Facts About Corrections

in Canada, 1994; Solicitor-General)

* Number of refugees who come from Africa as of January 1995 (world's highest
number): 6.75 million)

Number of "internally displaced" people (those forced from their homes but not
their countries) in Africa:16 million

Country that produced the world's largest number of refugees: Afghanistan, 2.74
million

(United Nations High Commission for Refugees)



LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1995 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              943 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                     August 8, 1995, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

The forgotten human crisis; Millions of environmental refugees could lead to
violence

BYLINE: NORMAN MYERS; THE GUARDIAN

SECTION: NEWS; OPINIONS; Pg. A7

DATELINE: OXFORD, England


Headlines flashed when the latest flood catastrophe in China displaced between
one and three million people and affected another 4.3 million. Yet these
refugees are only a small part of a silent crisis that has been building up in
China for several years.

The government acknowledges that there are at least 120 million peasants roaming
around the interior, landless and workless. Some six million of them can be
considered to have been driven from their homes by long-term environmental
problems such as soil erosion, deforestation, desertification and record
droughts, all these problems being aggravated by population pressures and
poverty, leading to grand scale land hunger and unemployment.

China's experience points to the new phenomenon of environmental refugees. They
are people who can no longer gain a secure livelihood in their homelands because
of a plethora of environmental ills. In their desperation, they feel they have
no alternative but to seek sanctuary elsewhere, however hazardous the attempt
might be.

There are at least 25 million environmental refugees, compared with 23 million
traditional refugees - people fleeing political oppression, religious
persecution and ethnic troubles. The number of environmental refugees is
expected to double by the 2010, and to continue to increase as growing numbers
of impoverished people press harder on over-loaded environments.

When global warming takes hold, there could be as many as 200 million people
overtaken by sea-level rise and coastal flooding, by disruptions of monsoon
systems and other rainfall regimes, and by droughts of unprecedented severity
and duration.

Most environmental refugees are in the African Sahel, the Horn of Africa
including Sudan, other parts of sub-Saharan Africa, and Mexico and China.
Another one million people, displaced by public works projects such as large
dams, are scattered throughout developing countries.

Of the extra one billion people projected to swell the global population during
the 1990s, a good proportion will be among communities with a cash income of $ 1
or less per person per day. They include those most likely to be struggling to
survive in environments too wet, too dry or too steep for sustainable
agriculture. In sub-Saharan Africa, these marginal environments may well need to
support an extra 225 million people during the 1990s, and in India an extra 190
million.

Poverty serves as an additional "push factor" associated with the environmental
problems displacing people. Other factors include population pressures,
malnutrition, landlessness, unemployment, over-rapid urbanization, pandemic
diseases and government shortcomings, together with ethnic strife and
conventional conflicts.

It is often difficult to differentiate between refugees driven by environmental
factors and those impelled by economic problems. In certain instances, people
with moderate though tolerable economic circumstances at home feel drawn by
opportunities for a better livelihood elsewhere. They are not so much pushed by
environmental deprivation as pulled by economic promise. This applies to many
Hispanics heading for the United States.

Those who migrate to escape outright poverty are often driven also by root
factors of environmental destitution. It is their environmental plight as much
as any other factor that makes them economically impoverished. This generally
applies to those refugees who migrate to areas where economic conditions are
little, if any, better than back home. With poverty and "life on the
environmental limits" as the main motivating force, it matters little to the
migrants whether they view themselves as environmental or economic refugees.

On top of all this is the lack of official recognition, whether on the part of
governments or international agencies, that there is an environmental refugee
problem at all.

Global warming, which could threaten large numbers of people with displacement
by the middle of the next century, if not well before, will cause more problems.

Preliminary estimates indicate that the total number of people at risk from
sea-level rise in Bangladesh could be 26 million, in Egypt 12 million, in China
73 million, in India 20 million, and elsewhere, including small island states,
31 million -- a total of 162 million. At the same time, at least 50 million
people could be at risk through increased droughts and other climate
dislocations.

The archetypal case is Haiti. Almost three-quarters of its 7.2 million people
depend directly on agriculture. Although only one-third of all land is deemed
arable, more than three-fifths is cultivated. Widespread deforestation, as well
as over-loading of croplands and low-level agrotechnologies, has increased soil
erosion. Half of all farmlands are considered to be so eroded that they are
"unreclaimable," and in some localities much of the landscape has lost virtually
all its soil cover.

Per capita grain production is only a little over half what it was 40 years ago,
and many people consume no more than 80 per cent of an acceptable daily calorie
intake. Yet the present population is projected to reach almost 10 million by
2010, when their environments are likely to be even less able to support them.

At least 1.3 million Haitians have left their homelands. As many as 300,000 have
made their way to the United States (possibly twice as many, including illegal
immigrants), via a dangerous 950-kilometre boat trip to the southern end of
Florida. To support these arrivals, the Florida state government has been
investing more money than the federal government has been allocating to foreign
aid for Haiti or to environmental measures for the entire Caribbean.

The problem of environmental refugees ranks as one of the foremost human crises
of our times. To date, however, these people have been viewed as a peripheral
concern, a kind of aberration from the normal order of things, even though they
are an outward manifestation of profound deprivation and despair.

While the issue derives primarily from environmental problems, it generates
problems of political, social and economic sorts. It could become a cause of
turmoil and confrontation, leading to conflict and violence.

Could we eventually witness multitudes of desperate migrants heading from Africa
towards Europe, and from tropical Asia towards "empty" Australia, from China
towards Siberia, and from Latin America towards North America? Indeed, the great
trek has already begun. Almost one million people make their illegal way across
the United States' southern border each year. Other nations are likely to be
little more able to control their borders than the Americans.

This all offers further reason to stem the crisis while we still have time. Yet
we hear next to nothing about environmental refugees. Few people, let alone
political leaders, have thought much about it.

Dr Norman Myers is a visiting fellow at Green College of Oxford University. His
report on environmental refugees was just published by the Climate Institute in
Washington, D.C.


LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1995

LENGTH: 1181 words

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (Huge pocket watch illustrates cities and forests on its face)

               Copyright 1995 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              944 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                    August 5, 1995, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

The new refugees: It's one of the foremost human crises of our time: 25 million
people are displaced by environmental ills in their homelands.Their numbers are
expected to double by 2010

BYLINE: NORMAN MYERS; THE GUARDIAN

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 1122 words

DATELINE: OXFORD, England


OXFORD, England

Headlines flashed when the latest flood catastrophe in China displaced between
one and three million people and affected another 4.3 million. Yet these
refugees are only a small part of a silent crisis that has been building up in
China for several years.

The government acknowledges that there are at least 120 million peasants roaming
around the interior, landless and workless. About six million of them can be
considered to have been driven from their homes by long-term environmental
problems such as soil erosion, deforestation, desertification and record
droughts, all these problems being aggravated by population pressures and
poverty, leading to grand scale land hunger and unemployment.

China's experience points up a new phenomenon: environmental refugees. They are
people who can no longer gain a secure livelihood in their homelands because of
a plethora of environmental ills. In their desperation, they feel they have no
alternative but to seek sanctuary elsewhere, however hazardous the attempt might
be.

There are at least 25 million environmental refugees. This compares with 23
million traditional refugees -- people fleeing political oppression, religious
persecution and ethnic troubles. The number of environmental refugees is
expected to double by the year 2010, and to continue to increase as growing
numbers of impoverished people press ever harder on over-loaded environments.

When global warming takes hold, there could be as many as 200 million people
overtaken by sea-level rise and coastal flooding, by disruptions of monsoon
systems and other rainfall regimes, and by droughts of unprecedented severity
and duration.

Most environmental refugees are in the African Sahel, the Horn of Africa
including Sudan, other parts of sub-Saharan Africa, and Mexico and China.
Another one million people, displaced by public works projects such as large
dams, are scattered throughout developing countries.

Of the extra one billion people projected to swell the global population during
the 1990s, a good proportion will be among communities with a cash income of $ 1
or less per person per day. They include those most likely to be struggling to
survive in environments too wet, too dry or too steep for sustainable
agriculture. In sub-Saharan Africa, these marginal environments may well need to
support an extra 225 million people during the 1990s, and in India an extra 190
million.

Poverty serves as an additional "push" factor associated with the environmental
problems displacing people. Other factors include population pressures,
malnutrition, landlessness, unemployment, over-rapid urbanization, pandemic
diseases and government shortcomings, together with ethnic strife and
conventional conflicts.

It is often difficult to differentiate between refugees driven by environmental
factors and those impelled by economic problems. In certain instances, people
with moderate though tolerable economic circumstances at home feel drawn by
opportunities for a better livelihood elsewhere. They are not so much pushed by
environmental deprivation as pulled by economic promise. This applies to many
Hispanics heading for the United States.

Those who migrate to escape outright poverty are often driven also by root
factors of environmental destitution. It is their environmental plight as much
as any other factor that makes them economically impoverished. This generally
applies to those refugees who migrate to areas where economic conditions are
little, if any, better than back home. With poverty and "life on the
environmental limits" as the main motivating force, it matters little to the
migrants whether they view themselves as environmental or economic refugees.

On top of all this is the lack of official recognition, whether on the part of
governments or international agencies, that there is an environmental refugee
problem at all.

Global warming, which could threaten large numbers of people with displacement
by the middle of the next century, if not well before, will cause more problems.
Preliminary estimates indicate that the number of people at risk from sea-level
rise in Bangladesh could be 26 million, in Egypt 12 million, in China 73
million, in India 20 million, and elsewhere, including small island states, 31
million -- a total of 162 million. At the same time, at least 50 million people
could be at risk through increased droughts and other climate dislocations.

The archetypal case is Haiti. Almost three-quarters of its 7.2 million people
depend directly on agriculture. Although only one third of all land is deemed
arable, over three-fifths is cultivated. Widespread deforestation, as well as
over-loading of croplands and low-level agrotechnologies, has increased soil
erosion. Half of all farmlands are considered to be so eroded that they are
"unreclaimable," and in some localities much of the landscape has lost virtually
all its soil cover.

Per capita grain production is only a little over half what it was 40 years ago,
and many people consume no more than 80 per cent of an acceptable daily calorie
intake. Yet the present population is projected to reach almost 10 million by
2010, when their environments are likely to be even less able to support them.

At least 1.3 million Haitians have left their homelands. As many as 300,000 have
made their way to the United States (possibly twice as many, including illegal
immigrants), via a dangerous 950-kilometre boat trip to the southern end of
Florida. To support these arrivals, the Florida state government has been
investing more money than the federal government has been allocating to foreign
aid for Haiti or to environmental measures for the entire Caribbean.

The problem of environmental refugees ranks as one of the foremost human crises
of our times. To date, however, these people have been viewed as a peripheral
concern, a kind of aberration from the normal order of things, even though they
are an outward manifestation of profound deprivation and despair.

The issue generates serious political, social and economic problems. It could
become a cause of conflict and violence.

Could we eventually witness multitudes of desperate migrants heading from Africa
toward Europe, and from tropical Asia toward "empty" Australia, from China
toward Siberia, and from Latin America toward North America? Indeed, the great
trek has already begun. Almost one million people make their illegal way across
the United States' southern border each year. Other nations are likely to be
little more able to control their borders.

Yet we hear next to nothing about environmental refugees. Few people, let alone
political leaders, have thought much about it.


LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BOB EAST/Miami Herald/ HAITIAN REFUGEES IN MIAMI: 1.3 million have fled
because of a dwindling food supply

               Copyright 1995 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              945 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 5, 1995, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Ideas & Trends;
This Is No Place Like Home

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE

SECTION: Section 4;   Page 3;   Column 1;   Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1189 words

DATELINE: GENEVA


A REFUGEE camp was once an easy thing to spot on the horizon, whether in Central
America, the Middle East or Asia. There were neat rows of tents (or thatched
huts or little mud-walled houses) with some larger structures bearing the logos
of international relief organizations. There was a kind of order. But that was
before wars among nations became longstanding lethal skirmishes among neighbors.
That was before Bosnia, Rwanda, Chechnya. The camps and the lives of people in
flight have changed with the metamorphosis of warfare.

"The classic refugee camp with the fence around it and a guard and a flag flying
and so on, is less and less the norm," said Robert P. DeVecchi, the president of
the International Rescue Committee, a leading American refugee organization for
more than half a century. "You have huge populations like the ones who fled
Rwanda into Zaire -- over a million people. That isn't a camp. That's a city."
And it is but one of the many forms of refugee settlements today.




Where People Live

Some Rwandans are living on volcanic rock fields almost devoid of water. Many
Palestinians inhabit de facto towns that they have built up in more than a
generation of displacement. Refugees from Cuba are living on U.S. military
bases. And in Europe, many people in flight are just moving into other people's
homes.

Two weeks ago, the World Food Program began an emergency airlift with meals for
up to a quarter of a million people from Chechnya who had taken refuge in north
Ossetia, Ingushetia and Dagestan -- three new names on the map of the displaced.
About half a million people, more than a third of Chechnya's population, have
abandoned their homes, the United Nations says. At least 90 percent of those
people, lacking even rudimentary camps, have found refuge with families in other
republics.

An astonishing 1 in every 115 people on earth is now on the run or in some kind
of exile, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said last month.
According to the count last month, 23 million refugees have fled across borders
and another 26 million are displaced in their own countries.

Africa has nearly 7.5 million refugees and many of the displaced; Asia has 5.7
million refugees and Europe 6 million, not including all of those who have been
displaced within their own countries by ethnic partition, particularly in
Bosnia. Another 2.3 million -- and an uncounted number of displaced -- are
refugees in the former Soviet republics.

With resettlement abroad now less and less likely, many desperate people seem to
be becoming permanent wards of international agencies and private charities.
Others are turning to illegal immigration, buying what one refugee official
called "that $50 Angola air ticket to Brazil." From there, the road runs
northward to the United States.

At the offices of the High Commissioner for Refugees here in Geneva, it has been
recognized for at least a decade that people in refugee settlements need to be
retrained and persuaded to go home. Until its budget was cut in the late 1980's,
the U.N.H.C.R. was developing projects to help men use their time in the camp
more productively.

While women in the camps tend to reproduce something like village life -- caring
for children, cooking, housekeeping -- says Sylvana Foa, the spokeswoman for the
High Commissioner, the men can't do the kind of work they did in the fields or
shops. Many spend their time drinking and gambling.

The agency is trying to find something useful for the men to do. This week, Ms.
Foa was writing letters to international companies asking for experts --
mechanics from Volvo and appliance repairmen from European factories -- who
would live in refugee camps and teach their skills for six-week stints, with
expenses paid but no salary.

The plan is to insure that when the refugees return home, they will not only be
able to find jobs but will also be able to rebuild the shattered countries they
fled. Ideally, they will avoid the kind of situation that faced the hundreds of
thousands of Cambodian refugees who lived on the Thai border in the 1980's and
finally returned home two years ago. The Cambodians were unprepared for the new
kind of jobs that were in demand. So the United Nations recruited plumbers,
electricians and other skilled workers from Thailand.

For every Cambodian and Central American camp that has closed, dozens of refugee
settlements have sprung up in the Balkans and in Africa, from Tanzania to
Guinea. As experts look at these new communities and set up work programs, they
are concerned about sending the wrong message -- that refugee camps are
substitutes for permanent communities. Sadako Ogata, the High Commissioner for
Refugees, said donor nations are now putting pressure on refugee officials to
make sure that refugees are not housed indefinitely in camps.

Experts are no longer dealing as much with the immediate crises that come with
flight as with the long-range work that is known in the trade as "sustainable
human development." That includes not only job training and literacy programs
but also psychological help in overcoming trauma and in developing character and
self-image.

Liberian refugees in southern Guinea, who are, so far, only in temporary exile,
have, for instance, set up schools with the seriousness of permanent residents.
"With four expatriates and about $35 per person per year, a school program has
been set up for about 60,000 Liberian children who are not in formal camps but
in villages," according to Mr. DeVecchi of the International Rescue Committe.
"The Liberians built their own schools. There are Liberian teachers and an
all-Liberian curriculum."

In other cases, people from mutually hostile communities are drawn together into
cooperative work, with the idea that someday these people will have to go home
and live together. The United Nations Development Program is bringing together
Guatemalans, Salvadorans and Nicaraguans from opposite sides of civil wars to
build houses, plant nurseries and begin other projects devised by the
International Conference on Central American Refugees.

Though many of these refugee settlements look like permanent villages, refugee
workers are determined to hold out the hope that the displaced will one day
resume a normal life. No development illustrates this more clearly than the
emphasis on mental health. Roy Williams, who has worked with the International
Rescue Committee in the former Yugoslavia, said that the trauma refugees face --
particularly when their communities have been torn apart by neighbor fighting
neighbor -- inhibits their ability "to return to normalcy or even regard
normalcy as something achievable.".

"The elderly may have no world left to go back to," he said, "and the
adolescents are very confused about what's going on." But while the despair may
be worse, the refugees are now being prompted, in sessions guided by mental
health professionals, to exorcise their demons -- "to talk about rape, violence
and how come the fellow who lived next door to you for 20 years has suddenly
tried to kill you."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a makeshift school, Rwandan refugee children use sticks as
pencils and their legs as notebooks. (Associated Press)

Graph: "Those Who Have Fled Their Countries" Figures for the largest refugee
programs monitored by the United Nations High Commissioner fot Refugees and how
much they spent in 1994 in each area.

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


                              946 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

                   November 19, 1994, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

Defining Who needs special status;True victims are hurt by anti-immigrant
feelings

BYLINE: KNIGHT-RIDDER; GAZETTE

SECTION: WEEKLY REVIEW; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 855 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Who is a refugee: Edina Kulagic of Bosnia or Ulrick Sejour of Haiti?

Kulagic, a 35-year-old mother of three, escaped Bosnia in July with her three
children.

An ocean away, Sejour, 28, was picked up in the Caribbean trying to flee to the
United States.

The answer to the question means the difference between the embrace of the world
community or a cold shoulder, the threat of detention and even deportation.

Kulagic, a Muslim, was automatically granted refugee status because of the civil
war in Bosnia. She was sent to a United Nations camp in Croatia to await
resettlement with her husband, who already had been sent to Fargo, N.D.

Sejour never got farther than the U.S. military base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Like thousands of fleeing Haitians who were rescued at sea last summer, Sejour
was treated as a "migrant" because the U.S. government believed economics, as
well as the threat of persecution, were the reasons for his flight.

The best he got from the United States was shelter at Guantanamo until he could
safely return to Haiti.

Refugees have international laws to protect them, as well as a vast network of
relief agencies to assist them. They fit the description of victims of war,
disasters or persecution for reasons of race, religion, nationality or politics.

In Canada, the definition of "refugee" is more restrictive than the one used by
international agencies in Africa and Latin America. Here, a refugee is someone
who, as an individual, has a "well- founded fear of persecution" in his
homeland. Under an Organization of African Unity definition used by the UNHCR in
Africa, it's much broader - basically anyone fleeing a war or, in their
language, anyone "compelled to leave their country owing to external aggression,
occupation, foreign domination or events seriously disturbing the public order
in either part or the whole of the country of origin." Similar language has been
applied to Latin America, as a result of wording adopted in the Cartagena
Agreement.

But migrants who enter countries illegally to find work get no such special
treatment. They have no special status. There is no international accord
addressing their plight.

Instead, anti-foreigner sentiments are becoming more common, both in the U.S.
and Canada. Witness California's Proposition 187, passed during this month's
mid-term American elections, which denies medical and social benefits to illegal
immigrants.

In Canada, the Reform Party has seized upon incidents in which foreign citizens
are charged with crimes in Canada - despite evidence suggesting the foreign-born
are actually less likely to commit serious crimes than are people born in
Canada.

The problem for refugees who are truly victims of political turmoil is that they
are being hurt by the same anti-immigrant sentiments.

"Refugees are special because they're being victimized by the state or other
powerful forces. They're not just immigrants," said Roger Winter, director of
the U.S. Committee for Refugees, an advocacy organization for refugees.

REFUGEES: THE GLOBAL PICTURE

Internally displaced people/Countries with the most people who've fled homes,
but still within borders, 1993.

SUDAN 4 MILLION

ANGOLA 2 MILLION

BOSNIA-HERZ 1.3 MILLION

LIBERIA 1 MILLION

IRAQ 1 MILLION

MOZAMBIQUE 1 MILLION

LEBANON 700,000

SOMALIA 700,000

ZAIRE 700,000

AZERBAIJAN600,000

REFUGEE HOT SPOTS

Experts predict these nations will produce new or continuing refugee flows in
the years ahead.

AFGHANISTAN

Problem: 16-year Cold War-inspired civil war has left country with no working
government.

Refugee Numbers: 3.2 million in Pakistan and Iran.

ANGOLA

Problem: Country has been divided by civil war that began in 1975.

Refugee Numbers: 525,000 have fled; another 2 million displaced.

AZERBAIJAN

Problem: Ethnic Armenians in breakaway province of Nagorno- Karabakh are trying
to unite with Armenia.

Refugee Numbers: 1 million refugees and displaced persons.

BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA AND CROATIA

Problem: Nation split by 3-year war between Serbs, Muslims and Croats.

Refugee Numbers: 4 million refugees and displaced persons.

BURUNDI, RWANDA AND ZAIRE

Problem: The collapse of Rwanda and flight of refugees are destabilizing the
entire region.

Refugee Numbers: 2 million Rwandan refugees.

GEORGIA

Problem: Breakaway Abkhazia province sparked a civil war in Georgia two years
ago.

Refugee Numbers: 300,000 displaced persons.

IRAQ

Problem: Displace Iraqi Kurds moved to UN-supported enclave in northern Iraq
after the 1991 Gulf War.

Refugee Numbers: 700,000 refugees; 1 million displaced persons.

LIBERIA

Problem: 5-year civil war between rival militias has destroyed the country's
order.

Refugee Numbers: 837,300 refugees; 1 million displaced persons.

TAJIKISTAN

Problem: Neo-communist government, backed by 25,000 Russian troops, fighting
Islamic foes.

Refugee Numbers: 547,000 refugees.

SUDAN

Problem: Government forces in Islamic north battling rebels in the south for 11
years.

Refugee Numbers: 4 million displaced.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Source: UN High Commissioner for Refugees: U.S. Committee for
Refugees/REFUGEES: the global picture.

Knight-Ridder Tribune/Refugee hot spots.

               Copyright 1994 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              947 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 16, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

On My Mind;
The Fear Of Refugees

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

SECTION: Section A;  Page 31;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 726 words


Three years after World War II, most governments of the world had realized that
the issues of refugees and asylum were critical to the safety of nations, the
purposes of the war and to what had come to be called human rights.

In Europe were camps still filled with persons "displaced" by German devastation
or fear of falling into the hands of the Soviet Army. In Asia millions of Hindus
and Muslims were killing and being killed crossing through India and Pakistan,
sliced apart by partition.

On Dec. 10, 1948, the 56 members of the U.N. met in Flushing, Queens, shivering
in a mangy former skating rink while the organization hunted frantically for a
permanent American headquarters.

In those days, presidents and kings picked important fruit to represent them at
the U.N. General Assembly. Secretary of State George Marshall headed the U.S.
delegation; near him was John Foster Dulles. The delegate who spoke to the issue
was Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt.

Stalin sent Andrei Y. Vyshinsky, his personal people-scythe. Jawaharlal Nehru
sent his sister, Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit, graceful as bamboo, twice as strong.

The document before them was the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. All who
voted for it said that to violate it would forever be like violating the U.N.
charter.

After Article 13 was passed -- declaring everyone's right to leave his country
at will -- Article 14 was approved:

"Everyone has the right to seek and enjoy in other countries asylum from
persecution."

The article excepted those who committed non-political crimes. For the overall
declaration all members voted aye except eight abstainers -- the Soviet bloc and
South Africa.

For the U.S. it was not a problem. Separated from refugees by oceans and
disinterest, Washington scanned the lists, reaching in for a few with
world-class physics achievements.

Later, U.S. administrations did show attention, political and compassionate.
They gave asylum to Soviet Jews, other Soviet dissidents and some allies from
South Vietnam.

But asylum was still something remote. We never really understood that most
asylum-seekers could not show up equipped with passports, visas, or affidavits
by police back home that said yes, they were indeed persecuting the refugees.

Annoying, paperless people like that still arrive from far away. Inscrutable
Chinese prefer sickening for months, even dying, in filthy cargo boats to
staying home having fun in the new Chinese Communist wonderland. Instead of
using them as TV commercials for America, we slam them into jail, long and
tight.

And now, drenched, starving Caribbean refugees impolitely try to leap into our
own sunny neighborhoods -- right where we once loved to conga around carrying
signs saying: "Love you, Latin neighbor."

Fidel Castro taught us that over there is now over here. America stood straight:
Cubans who could get here were taken in. Look around: Cuban refugees, like so
many others, not only got jobs but created others.

But now there is a growing American antagonism toward immigrants, including
refugees: hordes of them will take our jobs. Refugees, of specified colors,
always are counted by the horde, sometimes the wave.

President Clinton played into that. He is no xenophobe or racist. But he has a
problem about refugees, as about some other human rights matters: constancy
deficiency.

This trait made for the weird performance in the Caribbean. When Mr. Castro
tested him by letting Cubans set out in rafts, Mr. Clinton "forced" Mr. Castro
to keep them home -- thus giving Fidel a terrific chuckle and simultaneously
tearing up Articles 13 and 14.

On Haitian refugees, one day Mr. Clinton said let them in, the next sent orders
to pick them up, send them back, or to Panama, or Guantanamo, anywhere, just
away.

If Mr. Clinton had remained constant on refugees, the Haitian "generals" might
have believed long ago that when he said something he meant that specific
something. And with a better Clinton constancy record more Americans might
understand that he has a good case for invasion as a last resort.

But no protests grip America about Washington's strange fear and minginess
toward boat people. Articles 13 and 14 are replaced by that grand old slogan:
Pull up the gangplank, Jack, I'm aboard. Is that the signal flag the President
wants America to fly on his tour?

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              948 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                   August 17, 1994, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Refugee problem will only get worse

BYLINE: LES WHITTINGTON, SOUTHAM NEWS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 690 words


OTTAWA

Fidel Castro has thrown south Florida's citizenry and White House policy-makers
into a frenzy by threatening to open the gates of his depressed island nation
and unleash a torrent of Cuban immigrants to the United States.

People in Florida are still traumatized from the last time Castro did this.

In 1980, in what became known as the Mariel boatlift, 125,000 Cubans -- many of
them criminals and mental patients -- arrived on U.S. shores.

The Clinton administration is now warning that authorities would seize the boats
of Americans in Florida who put to sea to try to help fleeing Cuban friends and
relatives.

"It is time that we make sure that we don't play into Castro's hands," said U.S.
Attorney General Janet Reno.

Nonetheless, the U.S. continues to accept Cubans -- 5,300 so far this year --
who actually make it to Florida.

These sorts of contortions are the norm when fear of large-scale immigration is
the overriding motivation of government policy.

President Bill Clinton appears no less mixed up when it comes to Haiti. So
blatant and repulsive has been the crushing of democracy there that Clinton has
reluctantly come around to considering an invasion of the Caribbean country.

Yet the U.S. still refuses to allow Haitians trying to escape the tyranny and
hardships of their country to reach the U.S. by boat.

The U.S. posturing on Cuba and Haiti, absurd as it may seem, is just another
wrinkle in the growing worldwide turmoil over refugees.

Increasingly, governments and aid agencies everywhere are being challenged by
the immense moral, political and economic issues created by the armies of
would-be immigrants on the move.

An upsurge of chaos in Asia and Africa in recent years has contributed to an
alarming rise in refugees internationally. Today, some 23 million people --
almost equal to the entire population of Canada -- have fled their countries as
a result of war, famine or for other reasons.

When those who have been uprooted from their homes but are still refugees within
the boundaries of their own countries are counted, the number nearly doubles --
to 49 million.

The instability that prompts mass exodus has been fostered by fierce clashes
around Africa, including Somalia, Angola, Liberia and Rwanda.

And more than three million people have been displaced by the civil war in
Bosnia and Croatia.

Refugee emergencies have also been created by the unrest in the former republics
of the Soviet Union and by the continuing instability in Afghanistan.

The ethnic nature of many of these conflicts has made refugees not only the
byproduct of war but in some cases the direct result of efforts to erase entire
groups from the land they occupy.

As the catastrophe in Rwanda has graphically shown, the world in general -- and
the United Nations in particular -- are ill-equipped to deal with such massive
refugee flows.

Most of the existing rules for handling refugees -- like those governing U.S.
handling of Cubans -- derived from the Cold War, when those escaping from the
Iron Curtain were welcomed in the West.

The current ad hoc nature of the world's response to refugee emergencies has led
to what might be called the CNN factor: Not until pictures of the dead and dying
are broadcast internationally is the world moved to action.

Even when disasters on the scale of Rwanda can be avoided, the increasing
numbers of would-be immigrants are creating profound public policy questions in
the developed world.

Coupled with economic recession, the influx of foreigners has fuelled disturbing
racial tensions and violence in Germany and other parts of Europe.

Intolerant attitudes toward immigrants -- and foreigners in general -- appear to
be on the rise in the U.S. and Canada.

Maintaining humane and intelligent policies toward newcomers -- especially at a
time when economic immigrants habitually avail themselves of procedures meant to
protect those seeking political asylum -- will seriously test the abilities of
western leaders like Clinton and -- no less -- Prime Minister Jean Chretien.

(Whittington is a Southam News columnist.)



LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1994 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              949 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 14, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Aug. 7-13;
Castro Blows Off Some Steam

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section 4;   Page 2;   Column 4;   Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 387 words


FOR Fidel Castro it's been a summer of demonstrations, power shortages and boat
hijackings. Unnerved by these developments, he has predictably blamed Uncle Sam
for his troubles, attacking in particular the trade embargo and anti-Castro
radio broadcasts. Without a Che Guevara to sow revolution in Latin America and
without a Soviet sponsor to finance Cuban forces in Africa, Mr. Castro has
turned to the remaining trump card he has: the threat of a new boatlift.

After thousands of young people shouted, "Down with Castro" at an Aug. 5
demonstration in Havana, Mr. Castro raised the spectre of a replay of the Mariel
boatlift, the chaotic 1980 exodus in which 125,000 Cubans fled to Florida. This
immediately set off alarm bells in the Clinton Administration, which envisioned
a flood of Cubans, coming after a tidal wave of Haitians, creating social and
political havoc in Florida and scuttling the Democrats' electoral chances there
in 1994 and 1996.


Mr. Castro grew angrier still last Monday when, according to Havana, a sailor
hijacked a government-owned boat, killing a navy officer on board, and then
headed toward Florida with 25 friends and relatives. Mr. Castro once again
condemned Washington, saying it encouraged such violent incidents by admitting
hijackers, even when they use force to steal boats.

Many Cuba watchers interpreted Mr. Castro's complaints and threats as a
transparent effort to press Washington to turn down the anti-Castro decibel
level and to treat the hijackers as common criminals. At the same time, there
was widespread doubt that he would unleash a new boatlift. While a new Mariel
would rid him of many troublemakers, it would send a message of instablity to
investors and tourists.

Bluff of not, the Clinton Administration isn't taking chances. It quickly took
the wraps off plans for the Navy and Coast Guard to mount a partial blockade,
intercepting and even seizing boats from Florida heading to pick up Cubans. For
the Clinton Administration, this commotion shows widening cracks in Cuba, but it
doesn't point to an imminent toppling of the 68-year-old leader. Michael Skol,
Acting Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs, said, "There is
rising dissidence within Cuba, but there is no evidence that's he's lost
control."   STEVEN GREENHOUSE

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              950 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                             August 2, 1994 Tuesday
                                  Late Edition

AUSTRALIA OFFERS HAVEN TO HAITIAN REFUGEES

BYLINE: DAVID LAGUE

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 528 words


Australia is planning to accept refugees from Haiti as the United Nations clears
the way for the United States to invade the Caribbean nation and oust the
repressive military government.

A cable from the Department of Immigration in Canberra to all Australian
missions overseas reveals that the Minister for Immigration, Senator Bolkus, has
decided that Australia can take a limited number of Haitians as a flood of
refugees abandon their stricken homeland.

"A small one-off refugee allocation for Haitians, to be administered by
Washington, has been made," the cable said.

A spokeswoman for Senator Bolkus said yesterday that Australia was in the early
stages of discussions with the US over the prospect of resettling Haitians.

"I can't say how many but it will be those who have the best prospects of
settling in Australia," she said. "It will be a well targeted approach."

The cable said the priority areas for Australia's refugee intake would be
Indo-China, the Middle East and the former Yugoslavia.

Ethnic carnage and disease in Rwanda could also force adjustments to the
composition of the Government's projected refugee intake. There is bipartisan
support for Australia to consider the plight of eligible Rwandans should the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees seek assistance from Canberra.

The acting Opposition spokesman on immigration, Mr Alan Cadman, said yesterday
in a statement that the Government should consider resettling Rwandans if
necessary, although it would be preferable if a political settlement allowed
refugees to return to their homes. "Only as a final step should settling
refugees in Australia be considered," he said.

Senator Bolkus has said that Australia was willing to help resettle Rwandans
facing persecution if the UNHCR considered it necessary. The Government
announced in May that Australia's humanitarian resettlement intake for 1994-95
would be 13,000, the same number as 1993-94, with a contingency reserve of 750
places for asylum seekers arriving in Australia. The total immigration target
was set at 86,000, a moderate intake compared with the recent high of 136,000 in
1987.

Australia last year resettled more refugees and humanitarian entrants per capita
than any other nation and was second only to the US in total.

The Immigration Department cable obtained by the Herald is dated July 22 and
reveals that Australia will also establish a special assistance category for Sri
Lankans under the humanitarian intake program to be administered by the embassy
in Colombo.

East Timorese living in Mozambique and Macau would also become eligible for
entry under the special assistance category extended to East Timorese resident
in Portugal.

According to the cable, Australia would accept 1,370 refugees and humanitarian
entrants from Indo-China, 260 from central and South America and the Caribbean,
800 from Africa, 2,870 from the Middle East, 1,500 from Europe and 100 from
other countries.

Under the special assistance category, Australia would take 750 members of
minority groups from the former USSR, 3,300 people from the former Yugoslavia,
300 Sudanese, 600 Burmese, 600 Cambodians and 250 Sri Lankans.

PAGE 16: Editorial.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1994 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              951 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                    July 27, 1994, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

U.S. SOLDIERS TO BOLSTER RELIEF

BYLINE: PETER MASER, SOUTHAM NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 342 words


The United States plans to send about 2,000 troops to bolster the relief
offensive in Zaire and Rwanda, amid signs of progress in the international
effort to help the devastated refugees.

Dubbed Operation Support Hope, the U.S. mission will offer support to the United
Nations and relief agencies in the two central African countries, Col. Robert
Mirelson said Tuesday. About 1,000 troops will be stationed in each country.

As well, the Rwandan capital, Kigali, and the Uganda airport at Entebbe will
become major centres for the arrival and forwarding of relief supplies.

On Tuesday, workers were busy here setting up the first water purification
systems to try to stem the cholera epidemic that has ravaged the million or more
Rwandan refugees in Zaire and claimed an estimated 14,000 to 20,000 lives since
last week.

The systems were brought in Monday, along with blankets, shelter and rehydration
packs, on a record 36 aid flights.

Still, UN spokesman Ray Wilkinson said, "we could take 200 flights a day and it
wouldn't be enough."

He also said the relief agencies are finding orphans "virtually by the minute."
Six thousand have been located, he said, and "we know there are more."

The growing number of orphans appears to be linked to the cholera epidemic.

Health officials have found that three of every four victims are adults, leaving
many children without parents. This could pose a problem for eventually getting
the children back to Rwanda, since they'll have no one to return with and
nothing to return to.

The first contingent of medical personnel left from Canadian Forces Base
Trenton, Ont., Tuesday for Zaire. Under a plan announced Monday, about 200
doctors, nurses, pharmacists and internists will make up three medical platoons
including engineering and support personnel with vehicles and equipment capable
of treating approximately 2,500 patients per day. The second group is to leave
today.

Each plane's cargo includes 30,000 pounds of medical equipment, antibiotics and
intravenous solutions.



LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1994 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              952 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 21, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Canada Gives Somali Mother Refugee Status

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 14;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 797 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, July 20


In a landmark immigration ruling, Canada has granted refugee status to a Somali
woman who fled her country with her 10-year-old daughter because she feared that
the daughter would face ritual genital mutilation.

In one of the rare times that any Western nation has specifically cited the
threat of this ancient custom, widely practiced in Africa, as a reason for
granting asylum, a panel of Canada's Immigration and Refugee Board said the
daughter's "right to personal security would be grossly infringed" if she were
forced to return.

The mother, Khadra Hassan Farah, 30, who lives in Ottawa and intends to study
nursing this fall at the local Algonquin College, said in a telephone interview:
"I couldn't believe my ears. I was so happy."

A two-member panel of the board ruled on the case on May 10, but the written
decision was published only last week.

"The panel is satisfied that the authorities in Somalia will not protect the
claimant from the physical and emotional ravages of female genital mutilation,
given the evidence of its widespread practice in that country," the panel said.

Recalling the Horror

Ms. Farah, who underwent the ritual 20 years ago, said she could still recall
the horror. "I can still see the scene and feel the pain and trauma all over
again," she declared.

Her daughter, Hodan Farah, "does not really understand the situation," the
mother said. Had her appeal been rejected, she said she would have tried to put
Hodan up for adoption in Canada.

Female genital mutilation, often referred to as female circumcision, has long
been condemned by human rights advocates and health professionals in the West.
It entails cutting away some part of a girl's genitalia before the onset of
puberty. Some scholars say its purpose is to thwart sexual appetite, maintain a
girl's virginity and enhance her appeal as a marital partner.

The World Health Organization has estimated that as many as 114 million women
worldwide have endured the procedure.

In many Western countries it is against the law. Britain, Sweden and Switzerland
in recent years have passed specific legislation banning it. In the United
States such legislation has been introduced in Congress.

Canada, along with France, maintains that any bodily mutilation is already a
violation of its existing criminal laws, making new legislation unnecessary.

Criminal Case in France

In a case involving a woman from Mali, who was accused of mutilating her
three-month-old daughter, France last year became the first country to bring
criminal charges against someone who performs the procedure.

Nurjehan Mawani, a Kenyan-born lawyer who is chairwoman of the immigration
board, said she did not expect a flood of claims to result from the Canadian
decision.

"Refugee determination is always on a case-by-case basis," she pointed out. "I
expect we may see a few more cases, but certainly no floodgates. If you look at
the overall worldwide situation, only 5 percent of world refugees are able to
claim refugee status in the West, and of these the proportion of women is
abysmally small. Women do not have the same mobility as men."

David Matas, president of the Canadian Council of Refugees, said the decision
"will help to redress the gender bias and capture the female experience of
persecution." He added, "Until now the process has tended to use a largely
male-dominated definition, of somebody politically active, involved in
demonstrations and the like."

In 1991 France became the first country to establish that female genital
mutilation is a form of persecution and that the threat of it is sufficient
grounds to grant a woman refugee status.

Canadian Case a First

But no one has yet been granted such status in France for this reason. The
latest ruling is believed to make Canada the first country to grant such status
as part of its conventional refugee procedures.

In March of last year, Canada adopted guidelines that make it easier for women
to claim refugee status, which paved the way for the latest ruling. Yet the
guidelines have not resulted in any increase in claims. In fact, new refugee
claims fell last year to 22,000 from 30,000 the year before, Ms. Mawani, the
board chairwoman, said.

A case similar to the one just decided in Canada came up this year in the United
States. A Federal immigration judge ruled in March that a Nigerian woman living
illegally in Portland, Ore., would not be deported to her native country because
her two young daughters would probably face genital mutilation if they
accompanied her.

But the Portland judge's ruling was not as sweeping as that of the Canadian
panel. The judge, Kendall Warren, did not grant a request for asylum, which
would have broken new ground, but merely annulled an expulsion order.


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              953 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 18, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Clinton's New Policy on Haiti Yields Little Progress So Far

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 3;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1308 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 17


President Clinton's new strategy to restore democracy to Haiti has thus far
failed to weaken the ruling military junta, elicit help from other countries in
resettling refugees or stem criticism by lawmakers, refugee groups and human
rights leaders.

The policy initiative, unveiled by Mr. Clinton nine days ago, included the
appointment of a new special envoy, William H. Gray 3d, and the announcement
that refugee processing centers would be created on ships and in third
countries. A few days before, the United States spearheaded a campaign in the
Security Council to impose a near-total trade embargo on Haiti that is due to
take effect on Saturday.

But the policy has been slow in getting under way, and critics of the
Administration have charged that Mr. Clinton was responding to domestic
political pressure in changing the Haiti policy and has no comprehensive plan to
restore to power Haiti's ousted President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide.

Administration officials stress that it will take some time for the tightened
sanctions, which include a ban on noncommercial flights, to be fully carried out
and effective.

"The U.N. sanctions that have been adopted are a strong expression of the
international community's commitment to restoring democracy," Samuel R. Berger,
the deputy national security adviser, said in a telephone interview. "Our envoy,
Bill Gray, has hit the ground running. We're moving ahead on changes in our
refugee policy as quickly as possible. The President said it would take some
weeks. There are no surprises here."

Among the indicators of a less than a smooth start, however, is the fact that
Mr. Gray, the new special envoy and the former head of the Congressional Black
caucus, has yet to meet Father Aristide or even to talk to him on the telephone,
although both men were in South Africa last week for the inauguration of Nelson
Mandela.

Mr. Gray said that he first tried to call Father Aristide upon his return. "He
was not in when I tried to call him," Mr. Gray said in a telephone interview
today. "No one answered the phone over the weekend. It's nothing but a little
telephone tag. We're close to having a meeting set up, hopefully by the end of
this week. It will be a courtesy call."

Another problem has been the failure of the Clinton Administration to convince
any other country to process potential Haitian refugees on their soil or to
grant political asylum to more refugees.

President Clinton telephoned Prime Minister John Major of Britain on Monday to
ask that the island group of Turks and Caicos, a British dependent territory, be
used for processing refugees. Mr. Major replied politely that in principle he
would like to help, but made no commitment, senior White House officials said.

Similarly, Madeleine K. Albright, the American representative at the United
Nations, asked Canada's Prime Minister Jean Chretien in Ottawa last week whether
Canada would be prepared to take more Haitian refugees. "We noted our interest
in cooperating, but gave no commitment or immediate answer," a senior Canadian
official said of the request.

There have also been problems in enforcing the economic isolation. Despite
embarrassing violations of existing sanctions by the Dominican Republic, through
which fuel is routinely smuggled across the border into Haiti, the United States
has no intention of threatening its Government with economic sanctions or
reducing its sugar quota to the United States.

Dominican Disdain

Joaquin Balaguer, who was narrowly leading today in his bid for re-election as
the Dominican President, has made no secret of his disdain for Father Aristide
and has been criticized by the Clinton Administration for not cooperating with
the sanctions against Haiti.

Defending the idea of not confronting the Dominican Republic, Mr. Gray said,
"This is not the time to make threats against the Dominican Republic, but the
time to work with them to solve some of their problems."

Although Mr. Clinton and his top aides have said publicly that the trade embargo
is intended to send a message to Haiti's ruling junta that it must step aside,
senior officials in the White House, State Department and Pentagon say in
private that they doubt the strategy will work.

Far from quieting Congressional criticism of the Administration's policy, the
new initiative has generated more calls for a military invasion of Haiti. Except
for English-speaking Caribbean countries and Argentina, however, other
governments in the hemisphere have expressed opposition to military action.

France and Canada also said last week they would not support or participate in
an American-led invasion.

Speculation on Invasion

But the difficulties with the Administration's policy have fueled speculation
both inside and outside the Administration that the United States is moving
inexorably to an invasion of Haiti to oust the junta by force.

"There is no hope for Haiti without an immediate military intervention," said
Robert I. Rotberg, president of the World Peace Foundation and author of a book
on Haitian history. "The policy is one of a big voice without a big stick. Teddy
Roosevelt must be turning in his grave."

As for the delays in permitting some Haitian refugees to enter the United
States, senior White House officials said that it will take "some weeks" before
American immigration authorities can begin shipboard interviews of potential
political refugees fleeing Haiti.

Word of the delay was conveyed by senior White House officials to more than 100
representatives of refugee and human rights organizations in a stormy meeting
last Friday. Until the new policy is under way, the Coast Guard will continue to
send back Haitians caught trying to flee by sea, as it did with 341 Haitians on
Monday.

The Administration still has not decided how it will conduct shipboard
interviews or whether it will allow Haitians to have legal counsel.

The head of the lobbying group TransAfrica, Randall Robinson, whose hunger
strike helped push the Administration into changing its Haiti policy, said that
he is organizing scores of lawyers to work on a voluntary basis to help insure
that Haitians have private legal counsel.

Restrictions on Applications

For the moment, the Administration will not change the way it allows Haitians to
apply for refugee status inside Haiti. Under new restrictions put in place in
February, Haitians cannot even gain an interview with an American immigration
official until they fill out a written questionnaire and qualify under a
specific category. These are the categories:

*Senior or mid-level officials in Father Aristide's ousted government;

*Close associates of Father Aristide;

*Journalists, educators and other political figures who have experienced
significant and persistent harassment;

*Unspecified "others" in whom the United States has an interest and who are in
immediate danger.

One problem with such restrictive procedures is that applying for asylum inside
Haiti is potentially dangerous for the applicant. In Port-au-Prince, for
example, the refugee processing center is housed in an open area of the Rex
Theater, where applicants can be seen by passers-by.

Mr. Gray stressed that the new Administration policy needed time to work and
that other changes might be made along the way.

The person who feels most strongly about not tampering any further with the
refugee policy is Secretary of State Warren Christopher, senior Administration
officials said.

It was he who argued -- unsuccessfully and without the support of other national
security advisers -- in the weeks before the policy shift that the United States
should do nothing to change its policy of forcibly repatriating Haitians fleeing
by boat. He warned that it would trigger a new flood of refugees, many of whom
might die at sea.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              954 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 12, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Opposes Plan for U.N. Force in Rwanda

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 9;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 523 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, May 11


As rebel forces of the Rwanda Patriotic Front pressed their attack today against
the capital, Kigali, the United States criticized a new United Nations plan to
send some 5,500 soldiers into the heart of the Rwandan civil war to protect
refugees and assist relief workers, saying it is more than the organization can
handle.

Instead America's representative at the United Nations, Madeleine K. Albright,
told the Security Council the United Nations should explore the possibility of
sending an international force to establish a "protection zone" along parts of
the Rwandan border where refugees could gather and be cared for.

The United Nations plan, submitted by Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali on
Tuesday, envisages sending troops straight into Kigali, where fierce fighting
was reported to be continuing today, with the objective of securing the airport
and reinforcing the United Nations' small military headquarters there before
fanning out through the war-torn country to protect refugees and aid workers.

But in an example of the cautious mood that has descended on the United Nations
these days, the Secretary General also made clear that the troops would not be
authorized to use force to stop the ethnic massacres that are estimated to have
cost some 200,000 lives so far.

While not excluding any course of action, Ms. Albright said it remains unclear
whether African countries are ready or able to send forces for such a dangerous
and complicated mission at the epicenter of a raging civil war.

She argued that a protected zone for refugees would be easier to organize and
that African countries are more likely to contribute forces to it.  Ms. Albright
said the United States wants to explore this approach and might be ready to
provide money, air transport and possibly some military equipment.

The Security Council will try to work out a compromise between these two
approaches and calls for more forceful action from third world members later
this week, diplomats said after the meeting today.

In his proposal, the Secretary General said some 1.2 million Rwandans are now
displaced inside the country and more than 300,000 have taken refuge abroad,
chiefly in neighboring Tanzania, Uganda, Zaire and Burundi. Moreover, some
80,000 refugees have fled recent fighting in Burundi.

He suggested the Security Council send in a force of 5,500 troops that would
include five infantry battalions, with a limited mandate "to support displaced
persons and other groups in Rwanda who have been affected by hostilities and to
assist in the provision of assistance by humanitarian agencies."

This falls short of the stronger intervention African and other third world
members of the Council say they favor although there is little chance they will
get their way.

The limited operation the Secretary General proposed as well as America's
warning that even this may be more than the United Nations can handle, reflects
a growing recognition of the difficulties and dangers of intervening in civil
wars, brought home to the organization by its troubled experiences in Somalia
and the former Yugoslavia.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map of Rwanda showing location of Kigali.

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              955 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                     March 5, 1994, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

War, famine and unemployment create 20 million refugees

BYLINE: MOIRA FARROW; VANSUN

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 646 words


From Africa to Latin America, from Asia to Europe, nearly 50 civil wars are now
raging around the world. Famine is once again stalking Africa, where up to 22
million people will soon need emergency food aid.

Thirty per cent of the world's labor force -- more than 820 million people --
are either out of work or not earning even a subsistence wage.

The United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) estimates there are 19.8
million refugees in the world plus another 24 million people displaced inside
their own homelands.

And in spite of these staggering disasters, population growth continues at such
a rate that in 10 years the world's population could be between nine and 15
billion.

Anyone wondering why immigrants and refugees seek out Canada as a promised land
need only ponder these statistics.

The details behind this list of tragedies are horrific. All television viewers
see the blood and terror of the civil war in Bosnia on nightly newscasts. But
well away from television cameras are dozens of other ethnic conflicts, and last
year The New York Times added them up to a total of 48. Since then the list has
grown even longer. The rebellion of the Chiapas Indians against the Mexican
government is just the latest example.

From Zaire to Burundi, from South Africa to Liberia, tribal fighting is killing
thousands in Africa. In Latin America, there are conflicts in Guatemala,
Colombia, Peru and Brazil.

Although there's fragile peace-making underway between the Arabs and Israelis,
that dispute is far from over. In another part of the region, the military and
Islamic fundamentalists in Algeria seem to be on the brink of all out war.

In Asia, fighting in Sri Lanka between Hindu Tamils and Buddhist Sinhalese has
caused thousands of deaths and sent thousands fleeing to Canada as refugees. The
list of other Asian conflicts includes another 12 countries from Indonesia to
Myanmar (originally Burma). And in India, tensions between Hindus and Muslims
are explosive. Although the world is gripped by the slaughter in Bosnia, there's
vicious fighting in several former states of the Soviet Union.

The potential famine figures in Africa come from the World Food Program, which
says that 3.08 million tonnes of emergency food aid will be needed in the coming
year. And that figure will go higher if drought recurs and civil war in
countries like Sudan gets any worse.

The 820 million unemployed or underemployed have been tabulated by the
Geneva-based International Labor Organization. "It's a crisis that in some
countries could really explode and undermine the social fabric very badly," said
ILO chief of staff Ali Taqui.

Signs of this crisis are showing in the numbers of homeless even in developed
countries -- two million in the U.S. and 400,000 in France, for example.

The UNHCR's shocking total of 19.8 million refugees in the world today compares
with less than 2.5 million 20 years ago and 11 million 10 years ago. The cost of
aiding these people has sent the UNHCR's budget soaring from $ 550 million in
1990 to an estimated $ 1.4 billion this year.

Looming over all these tragedies is world population growth from 5.57 billion
today to at least double that in 10 years.

"The capacity is really there to blow up the world," said Margaret
Catley-Carlson, president of the Population Council, a non-profit research and
development organization, in a recent speech.

Statistics like these are why Canadian newspapers increasingly carry stories of
desperate attempts to reach this country. A total of 1,272 stowaways were
recorded attempting to reach Canada from north-west European ports in 1992. The
numbers who made it is unknown.

But they will keep on coming even though some die on the way -- suffocating in
excrement-filled hiding places where they huddled in a desperate attempt to
reach a new world.


LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: A WORLD ON THE MOVE

               Copyright 1994 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              956 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 10, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Stoked by Ethnic Conflict, Refugee Numbers Swell

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 691 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 9


The spread of ethnic conflict since the end of the cold war has pushed the
number of refugees to 44 million people, or more than one in every 130
inhabitants of the globe, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
reported today.

The number of people qualifying as refugees because they have been driven across
an international frontier has climbed steadily from 2.5 million in 1970 to 19.7
million today, taking into account the recent mass exodus from the tiny African
state of Burundi. In addition, roughly 24 million people have been forced into
exile within their own countries.

The figures were presented by the High Commissioner, Sadako Ogata, in a report
titled "The State of the World's Refugees -- the Challenge of Protection."

Intervention for Prevention

The increase occurred despite the return of some 2.4 million refugees to their
countries of origin during 1992.

"The massive number of people on the move has weakened international solidarity
and endangered the time honored tradition of granting asylum to those in genuine
need of protection," the report says. "The traditional system of protecting
refugees has come dangerously close to breakdown."

The crisis is forcing the refugee agency to expand its mandate to help not just
refugees forced across frontiers but also internally displaced people to prevent
their becoming refugees.

While insisting on refugees' right to asylum in foreign countries, Mrs. Ogata
said that preventing people from becoming refugees lies in the "realms of
peaceful resolution of conflict, respect for human rights, economic development,
stable participatory government, a fair and independent judiciary and tolerance
for diversity."

But the agency, which expects to spend $1.3 billion on the care and protection
of refugees this year, says that political solutions cannot substitute for
helping those who need assistance.

Iran Tops List

In particular, Mrs. Ogata warned that Security Council trade sanctions against
such countries as Iraq and parts of the former Yugoslavia are exacerbating the
plight of the people.

Asia still has the largest number of refugees with some 7.2 million last year,
although that figure is down from 8.6 million in 1991. Africa follows with 5.4
million refugees, while Europe is now in third place with 3.6 million, largely a
result of the fighting in the Balkans. The number of refugees in Latin America,
mainly the result of the civil wars in Central America, has dropped below 1
million.

Iran is currently granting asylum to the largest number of refugees in the
world, a total of 4.1 million, including 2.9 million Afghans and 1.2 million
dissident Iraqi Kurds and Shiite Muslims. It is followed by Pakistan with 1.6
million Afghans and Malawi, with about 1 million refugees fleeing the civil war
in neighboring Mozambique.

The report highlights the growing reluctance of industrialized countries to
accept refugees, listing Austria, Canada, Germany, the United States and Britain
among countries that are tightening asylum laws.

Germany Feels Effects

In 1983, only 100,000 people asked for asylum in Western Europe, North America,
Australia and Japan. But by 1992 the number had risen to 800,000. Over the same
period the number of asylum-seekers arriving in Western Europe climbed from
30,000 a year to over 680,000. Germany has been the most seriously affected,
with the number of asylum seekers rising from 121,000 in 1989 to 438,000 in
1992. Although Bonn is tightening its asylum laws, Germany remains the
industrial country with the most refugees, providing asylum to 827,000 at the
end of 1992. So far the numbers of refugees to Western Europe from the East have
been lower than expected.
 In the United States the total number of refugees declined slightly, falling
from 482,000 in 1991 to 473,000 last year.

The report says that the majority of asylum seekers are refused refugee status,
though most manage to stay on illegally or under special dispensations. Only 20
percent of asylum-seekers were accepted by European Community countries in 1991,
but about 80 percent remained in those states.


LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Across Border" tracks number of refugees forced from their
countries sinc 1976. (Source: United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              957 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                   January 20, 1993, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

MARINES END FIRST SPELL OF SOMALIA DUTY

BYLINE: REUTERS-AP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 510 words


U.S. unit hands over operations to Aussie troops

MOGADISHU, Somalia (Reu-ter-AP) -- The first unit of U.S. Marines left Somalia
for home Tuesday after handing over their duties in the famine-stricken southern
town of Bai-doa to Australian replacements.

A group of 237 soldiers packed their bags, handed over live ammunition, and flew
out of Mogadishu airport for March Air Force base in southern California.

"You did, like you always do, a first-class job," Maj.-Gen. Charles Wilhelm,
commander of U.S. forces in Mogadishu, said in a brief farewell address.

The Marines were part of a 24,000-member U.S. force spearheading Operation
Restore Hope, a multinational humanitarian effort to stop the looting of famine
relief supplies by gunmen.

A U.S. military spokesman said a second group of 375 Marines would leave later
Tuesday. Two more flights would leave today until the entire 900-member unit had
rebased.

Most of the soldiers were glad to be going home.

"It's a pretty hard place to be living in -- the heat, the dirt, being shot at,"
said 1st Lieut. Anne Christenson, 25, of Vancouver, Wash., looking forward to a
reunion with her husband. "I've only been here for five weeks. It seems like a
year, though."

Washington is describing the homecoming as a redeployment and says it does not
herald the start of a wind-down of U.S. forces in the broken Horn of Africa
country.

The U.S.-led force, now numbering a total of 36,000 from 20 countries --
including more than 900 from Canada -- has secured Somalia's towns, airports and
ports, and escorted food convoys to the main famine centres.

Even as the battalion was leaving, other Marines providing security for relief
workers in the countryside came under sniper fire but there were no casualties.
Two Somalis were captured and turned over to local authorities.

As the troops departed, representatives of Mogadishu's two major warlords, Ali
Mahdi Mohamed and Mohamed Farrah Aidid, tore down the barricades along the
capital's embattled Green Line in a symbolic gesture of reconciliation.

The two warlords were among the leaders of 14 factions who signed a ceasefire
last week in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.

The United Nations said Tuesday it would begin an emergency airlift of food to
Somali refugees crowded into Kenyan border camps which have come under repeated
attacks from Somali gunmen who have killed 18 people and stolen supplies.

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said that starting today three
Canadian planes would deliver food daily to four border camps sheltering some
160,000 refugees.

An organization spokeswoman also said it was looking into deploying forces along
the Kenyan border to protect the refugees.

Meanwhile, the Kenyan government has asked the UN to send home immediately all
500,000 refugees in the country.

"The numbers of refugees in Kenya from Somalia, Ethiopia and Sudan have not only
seriously compromised the security of this country but greatly outstretched the
infrastructure and medical services," it said.



LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1993 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              958 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                    December 9, 1992, Wednesday, 1* EDITION

Stretching out a cold hand

BYLINE: ROSEMARY BROWN; VANSUN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; ROSEMARY BROWN; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 644 words


But for a very small group of compassionate and concerned Canadians, we, a
nation of immigrants and the descendants of immigrants, have remained mute while
our government passed legislation that pulled up the drawbridge and locked the
doors against people who seek refuge and security in this country.

Bill C-86 with its draconian amendments includes sections which will hurt many
residents, potential immigrants and refugee claimants. Because the legislation
is retroactive, it will affect people who have already made applications for
landing. It will impede the reunification of families by allowing quotas on
certain streams of prospective immigrants. Limiting in particular the number of
parents, grandparents and siblings who can join a relative in Canada.

Phil Rankin, chair of the Vancouver Refugee Council, maintains that unlike the
enticements which are offered to entrepreneur immigrants, this law discourages
the number of immigrants in the "family class" and reduces the over-all number
of refugees who seek asylum here. He also points out that unlike the
wide-ranging consultative process which was encouraged around the Green Paper on
the immigration act of 1976, this Bill was rushed through parliament with
unseemly haste, referred to a hand-picked committee which never left Ottawa nor
invited anyone but "national groups" to present to it.

Barbara Jackman, a lawyer and advocate for refugees and immigrants, suggests
that the government bought our silence by passing the bill during a period when
Canadians were being deluged with anti-refugee sentiments and subjected to
innumerable accounts of "abusers," "terrorists" and "criminals."

The tragedy is that the passage of Bill C-86 does not mark Canada as unique in
its response to refugees and economic immigrants. The wandering of peoples from
the poorer countries to the south knocking on the doors of the wealthy
industrial nations, pleading for entry, has become a global phenomena. And the
response to their pleas has been chillingly similar. In Germany, France and
Spain the response has been ugly, violent and murderous. In the United States,
President Bush has decreed that Haitian refugees be intercepted en route and
returned to their homeland. Even the Scandinavian countries have not responded
with their usual altriusm.

How can one explain this global mercilessness? Even more importantly, where are
the cries of outrage from Canadians?

This world problem did not just happen. Turkish workers have been harassed and
exploited in European countries for decades. Early colonial policies have
ravaged the economies of Africa, the Caribbean and parts of Asia. Selfish
development policies of northern industrial nations coupled with the corporate
global search for cheap labor and disposable resources have denuded and depleted
many Third World countries. Ideological wars and civil wars, drought and famine
have all have contributed to this global wandering of people in search of a
better life. The difference is that when our ancestors were searching, doors
were open and they were made welcome.

Today, instead of aiding disadvantaged countries to strengthen their economies,
develop social safety nets, and welcoming those who seek refuge, affluent
countries collude with the World Bank and International Monetary Fund in
imposing brutal structural adjustment policies on them, signing trade agreements
which further the exploitation of their nationals, and contenting themselves
with parsimonious handouts and hypocritical rhetoric.

A soaring deficit, escalating unemployment, and insecurity about our own
constitutional future cannot excuse silence about this law which does harm to
our international stature as a humane nation, to our belief in ourselves as a
compassionate people, and insults the generosity of those who welcomed our
ancestors.


LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1992 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              959 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                   November 26, 1992, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

South African seeks refuge for his family

BYLINE: BY VALERIE HILL SPECIAL TO THE STAR

SECTION: SCARBOROUGH/DURHAM; Pg. SD8

LENGTH: 791 words


Canada means different things to different people.

For some it means a World Series champion, for others constitutional confusion.

But for the Arieff family, Canada is paradise.

Faiz and Gloria Arieff, both 42, gave up everything they owned to bring their
family to this country.

Natives of South Africa, they wanted to escape racial inequities and political
violence to provide their children with equal opportunities and a sense of
security.

"We sold every bit of furniture we owned just to make the fare," Faiz said.

They arrived in Canada in the spring of 1990 with a few suitcases and the hope
for a better life.

"I'm looking for a second chance for my family and myself. I have a lot to offer
Canada," Faiz said.

Unfortunately, he may never get to use his managerial skills in Canada. At the
moment, he has temporary employment as a fitter in a Scarborough shoe factory.

Trying to stay permanently in Canada, the Oshawa family has gone before
immigration panels twice without success. They were refused refugee status by
the department of employment and immigration, and their appeal to remain here on
humanitarian and compassionate reasons was also denied.

A complication is that after leaving South Africa, the Arieff family spent two
months in the United States before coming here and Canadian immigration
officials don't look favorably on immigrants who are considered to be "country
shopping."

"Our question is: Why did they wait?," said immigration department spokesperson
Andre Labelle of such cases. "If you're really a refugee, the first door you
come to, you ask for refugee status."

The Arieffs have until January before their visitors' visa expires.

The government has advised the family to apply for permanent residency here
through a Canadian consulate in the United States. To do so, they'd first need
to gain entry to America for a number of months while their Canadian application
went through channels.

The Arieffs are doubtful about that option. So far, their efforts to convince
immigration boards have not been encouraging.

"They think we had a good life in South Africa," Gloria said.

"If it was such a good life, why would I give it up?" says her husband.

The Arieffs agree they and their sons Raoul, now 14, and Ramiz, 9, were
financially secure before leaving South Africa. The couple owned a three-bedroom
home and ran their own business.

Faiz had worked for 15 years with an automotive paint company in Johannesburg.
The last four years, he took over the business although he paid an annual
retainer to keep using the former owner's name because the latter was a white
person.

Faiz and his family are people of mixed race, or coloreds in the language of
South Africa.

"I could tell you stories," Faiz said. He mentions witnessing a young child
being shot dead in the streets of a black township.

The Arieffs operated their business in the white section of Johannesburg because
it was one of the most profitable areas, but they were not easily accepted.

They hired a white person to go into the city to deal with clients. Gloria, who
is more fair-skinned than her husband, looked after more of the front-counter
duties to try to keep the peace.

Still, the Arieffs faced harassment. People posing as customers dropped opened
paint cans in their shop to ruin merchandise. Bricks got tossed through their
windows.

Then, in 1989, their business was destroyed by a bomb. The perpetrators were
never caught.

"The message was we're not supposed to be there," Faiz said.

As frightening as the bombing incident was, it took something else to convince
the couple they should leave South Africa.

One day an anonymous caller threatened to harm their sons - said a bomb would be
planted in their school.

The couple decided to move immediately after the call.

When his sons heard they were leaving South Africa they were ecstatic, Faiz
said.

The youngest son told his father, "No more fighting. No more killing."

Both boys are currently enrolled in schools in Oshawa.

Faiz and Gloria are appealing to people to write the department on their behalf
in the hope they'll be allowed to remain in Canada.

"We had to make a sacrifice for the sake of our kids. I pray and hope that
Canadians will support us. I've got to have faith in the system," Faiz said.

In 1991, the system saw more than 30,500 people come to Canada seeking refugee
status. Forty- five of these cases were natives of South Africa.

The thought of returning there frightens both parents.

"There is no protection," Faiz said. "All my emotions for fighting against this
(discrimination) would be gone and I would be going back penniless. I don't want
to go back to South Africa."


LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1992 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              960 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            June 17, 1992 Wednesday
                                  Late Edition

Hell is a boat out of Haiti

BYLINE: PETER STEPHENS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1014 words


PETER STEPHENS, in Los Angeles, reports on American unease over a tightening
US-led embargo aimed at the dictatorship in Haiti.

HAITI is the poorest country in the Western hemisphere, more famous for its high
rate of AIDS infection and for its blend of Catholicism and voodoo than for any
economic achievement. It is also one of three countries in the hemisphere living
under military rule and recently was singled out by a respected research group
as having the highest level of human suffering in its region.

In such circumstances, was it wise to place a tight embargo on Haiti to force it
to return to democracy? More and more, this question is being asked following
the recent surge in refugees to the United States from the impoverished nation.

Already, there are about 240,000 Haitians in America, half of whom arrived in
the 1980s. The island nation has a population just above six million. At the
height of the refugee outflow, departures were running at up to 1600 a day.

President Bush's embargo, designed to slowly strangle the military rulers of
Haiti, has made matters much worse, and the surest indicator is the number of
Haitians willing to make the boat ride to freedom across the open seas to
America's military base in Cuba.

They fled in their thousands with an unknown number perishing at sea and the
rest being held for processing at Guantanamo Bay. The reported price of a
passage dropped as entrepreneurial Haitians made their small craft available
and, as violence on the island surged, the refugee flow threatened to turn into
a flood.

But President Bush's decision to intercept refugees on the high seas and return
them to Haiti has drawn criticism from the press and from human rights groups,
many feeling that America was abandoning its traditional role as a haven for the
world's dispossessed.

A cartoon in the Chicago `Tribune' neatly summed up the feeling. It depicted a
small boat of American Indians turning back the Mayflower, on which the pilgrims
arrived. "We've got to send you back," the Indian chief is saying. "It would
only encourage others to attempt more of these dangerous and foolhardy crossings
in flimsy boats! Besides, we don't have the space." AMERICA'S debate over the
future of the Haitian refugees underscores the difficulty faced by Washington
when it attempts to manage the affairs of its region. Short of armed invasion
(as in the 1983 attack on Grenada), embargo is the favored way of applying
pressure in the hope of making a country ungovernable and pushing it back to
democracy.

But in Haiti's case, the embargo has been incomplete _ at least 12 countries in
Latin America, Europe and Africa are said to have penetrated it _ and its
consequences have fallen disproportionately on the already suffering civilians.
The United States refused to use military force even to enforce the embargo, and
seemed unwilling until recently to ask its allies to cut off contacts with the
military regime.

But, 17 months after democratic elections installed Father Jean-Bertrand
Aristide and nine months after the coup evicted him, the US decided to ban
access to American ports for ships which had called in Haiti. The tighter
embargo and the tough line on refugees signal Mr Bush's desire to avoid an
influx of immigrants of the sort which weakened the Carter administration in
1980 when about 125,000 Cubans arrived uninvited on the coast of Florida in the
Mariel

boatlift.

But the pragmatic approach once again raises legitimate questions about the
wisdom and the human cost of applying sanctions in the first place.

In Congress, Mr John Conyers, a Michigan Democrat, blasted the Bush
administration for adopting "a policy of drowning" and said that "the sad fact
is that Haitians are willing to risk their lives with the sharks of the sea
rather than face the dictators of the military at home." A spokesman for a
private refugee organisation in Washington accused the US of deliberately
keeping Haitians confined to a small section of Guantanamo Bay base, when many
more refugees could be accommodated.

INEVITABLY, critics will wonder why the Bush administration is happy to trade
and deal with the despotic Government of China yet feels morally bound to
isolate Haiti.

The difference may be that Washington feels that pressure might work on tiny
Haiti, but not on Beijing. Also, Haiti does not have nuclear weapons, a
population of 1.1billion, and a seat on the United Nations Security Council.
Washington can afford to offend Port-au-Prince.

The plight of the Haitians is worsened by the presence of a large number of
so-called "economic refugees" among those fleeing. The US is sympathetic only to
the claims of political refugees _ that is, those whose lives may be threatened
by returning, rather than those who simply want to live in a richer country.

The AIDS virus, which abounds in Haiti, also is affecting the processing of the
refugees within Haiti and at Guantanamo Bay. American policy restricts prople
from immigrating if they test HIV positive. About 200 Haitians with the virus
have been segregated at the military base.

The latest plan, reported in America this month, to send a peace-keeping force
to Haiti and allow the army some say in selecting a Prime Minister, seems
designed to build on the embargo and capitalise on the military's eroding
support in Haiti. It also recognises that the time for stalling is fast coming
to an end. The situation in Haiti is desperate and the other Latin American
states, as well as the nations of North America and Europe, have little time in
which to act.

Canada showed its recognition of the deteriorating condition of Haiti early this
month when it froze the country's finances. Other punitive moves are likely as
talks continue to decide the structure of the international peace-keeping force.

But whatever the result, new questions have been raised about the consistency
and charity of America's human rights record. The administration seems motivated
more by pragmatism than principle and its treatment of the Haitian refugees will
not endear it to any but the staunchest anti-immigration groups.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1992 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


                              961 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                     July 3, 1991, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Conflict swell refugee population

BYLINE: By Paul Watson Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 398 words


Wars in the Persian Gulf and Africa have pushed the world's refugee total to
more than 18 million people - double the number only seven years ago, a U.S.
study shows.

There was "boundless hope" that the refugee population would shrink with the end
of the Cold War, the U.S. Committee for Refugees said in its annual survey.

But spiralling growth in the global refugee figures show the world is becoming
more chaotic despite new co-operation between East and West, committee
chairperson Roger Winter concluded.

If the explosive growth continues, the world will have more refugees than Canada
has people by the end of this decade.

"The reality of war and conflict for much of humankind remains unchanged,"
Winter wrote in the committee's annual report, released yesterday.

"The prospects for much more - in the Soviet Union, Yugoslavia, the Middle East,
India, Sudan, Burma - portend even higher numbers of refugees and displaced
people."

At the same time, people in Western countries are paying less attention to the
refugees' suffering, Winter wrote.

"If anything, too much attention continues to be focused on walling others out
so that they don't impinge on us."

The United Nations High Commission for Refugees, which has been forced to
sharply cut back support programs because it's so short of money, had a budget
of $ 570 million to care for 15 million refugees in 1989.

In the same year, Western countries spent roughly $ 5.7 billion on screening
procedures to decide who deserved asylum, the committee's report said.

"Refugees worldwide - but especially in less visible spots - have seen their
actual level of care degraded, education of their children eliminated, their
dependency deepened," the study found.

The 107-page annual survey is considered the most comprehensive by any private
agency.

According to the U.S. committee's count, Canada ranks Number 2 among Western
nations in the ratio of permanently resettled refugees to its over-all
population.

One in every 93 Canadian residents is a refugee while the ratio in Sweden is one
in 78. Australia ranks third, with one refugee for every 99 residents.

The U.S. had the fifth-highest percentage of resettled refugees in its
population.

Canada's two-year-old refugee screening procedures are among the most generous
in the world despite growing backlogs, the U.S. group concluded.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Star map (Westover): top 5 refugee-sheltering countries

                  Copyright 1991 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              962 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                     July 1, 1991, Monday, HOLIDAY EDITION

Quotas show who's likely to get immigration visas

BYLINE: By Paul Watson TORONTO STAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1/ FRONT

LENGTH: 1119 words


For people in a hurry to make Canada home, it's a good time to be living in the
Middle East, western Europe or the United States.

These three regions are the big winners on Canada's visa quota list, which is
the best tip sheet for figuring out where 220,000 immigrants will come from this
year.

But people desperate to leave Latin America, the Caribbean and black Africa are
the big losers.

They'll all have to compete for a smaller share of immigrant visas, according to
federal figures released to The Star.

That's going to mean more grief for hundreds of Latin Americans who have already
waited months and years to bring in close relatives, said Metro community worker
Emily Cartwright.

"It's something we deal with daily here, the frustration and unhappiness of
people waiting so long," said Cartwright, coordinator of the Centre for Spanish
Speaking Peoples.

"It's very, very painful. And the thought that there's going to be a further
decrease in the ability of people to be reunited with their families is really
sad."

The visa caseload allotted to the United States has gone up 5 per cent, to
13,081 cases.

Visa offices in the Middle East and Arab north Africa got a 13 per cent boost in
their immigration level to 9,308 cases, while those in western Europe received a
9 per cent increase to 22,855 cases this year.

But Africa over-all has suffered a fall to 1,902 visa cases this year, a figure
25 per cent less than last year's number.

The external affairs department, which comes up with the figures, lumps all of
Africa and the Middle East together, producing an over-all increase of 4 per
cent.

And Canadian visa officers in all of Latin America and the Caribbean can handle
only 11,273 cases this year, including government and privately sponsored
refugees, a total that represents an 11 per cent drop from last year.

The sharp decline has a lot to do with a bias against immigrants from less
developed Third World countries, a bias that has marred Canada's immigration
policy for decades, Cartwright argued.

"I think that Canada's immigration policies have always been racist and
discriminatory," said Cartwright, who says Ottawa's get-tough policy on refugees
has made things worse in the last five years.

"It's just tragic given the political situation in most Latin American countries
right now."

But a federal official who helps calculate the immigration visa levels says they
reflect a delicate balancing act in a world with more qualified immigrants than
Canada can handle.

One of the main reasons for the sudden changes is Ottawa's decision last year to
start recruiting more refugees with specific work skills the provinces want.

That means foreign posts that traditionally have more requests to reunite
families than applications from skilled workers have to take an automatic
cutback.

A shift in responsibility for El Salvador from Costa Rica to Guatemala explains
the two most startling changes: a 223 per cent increase for Guatemala and a 79
per cent decline in San Jose, Costa Rica, said the external affairs official,
who spoke on condition he not be named.

The collapse of communism in Europe has also shaken Canada's immigration system.

The visa office in Vienna, Austria, will handle 75 per cent fewer visa files
this year, mainly because last summer Ottawa killed a special program for
refugees from former East-bloc countries in eastern Europe.

Meanwhile, the refugee quota has shot up 172 per cent to 601 applications in
Moscow, U.S.S.R., where the Soviet government has relaxed exit controls.

The visa share in Budapest, Hungary, jumped 165 per cent, but the external
affairs official said privately he's not sure if enough applicants will qualify.

Quebec's demand for more French-speaking immigrants helped boost the immigration
target in Paris, France, by 105 per cent to a total of 5,440 cases.

But across the English Channel in London, England, the quota dropped 24 per cent
to just 3,520 visa applications.

Canada's consulate in Dublin, Ireland, suffered one of the biggest quota cuts -
62 per cent - and can process only 174 cases this year.

That's because relatively few qualified people have tried to immigrate from
Ireland in recent years, the official said.

By contrast, Canada's high commission in Hong Kong is allowed to process a total
of 13,900 immigrant visa applications.

Hong Kong has by far the largest immigrant visa operation - 13 per cent of
Canada's global total - because Ottawa is trying to cut a huge backlog there.

"Do we let an Irish person walk in the door, apply today and get dealt with when
we tell people in Hong Kong to wait for three years?" the external affairs
official said by way of explaining the difference.

"The object is to try and be fair around the world."

Hong Kong is allotted the most spots in the waiting line because so many
residents qualify to join family in Canada, set up businesses here or come as
skilled workers, the official added.

"Hong Kong is unique because it's probably the only place in the world where you
have (thousands of) people who qualify in every single category," he said.

The Asia and Pacific region will still be the largest single source of
immigrants with a caseload of 35,680, a 5 per cent cutback from last year's
total.

Under a five-year plan announced last fall, Canada plans to let 220,000
immigrants and refugees settle here this year and total of more than 1.2 million
newcomers by 1995.

About 10,000 of newcomers this year will be refugee claimants who had hearings
in Canada or other people allowed to remain for humanitarian reasons, an
immigration department spokesperson said.

To meet the overseas target, Ottawa tells Canada's consulates and embassies how
many visa cases they're allowed to process each year, whether or not each
application is successful.

When visa officers reach their limit, they're supposed to stop handling new
cases until next year.

The figures determine how many files each visa office can process, not the
specific number of visas that can be issued. A single case could include several
people if a business immigrant applied to bring her husband and children with
her, for example.

Critics say the plan amounts to a quota system anyway because visa officers have
strict limits on the number of cases they can handle.

For years, many visa officers shot past their targets, driving immigration
levels far beyond Ottawa's planned level.

But a Jan. 31 Telex to visa officers released to The Star says visa officers
should finish within just 3 per cent of their target by year's end.

It could mean a black mark on their job performance review if they don't, the
Telex adds.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Canadian visa posts with highest and lowest percentage change quotas
from last year
CHART: Visa quotas = 1990 and 1991

                  Copyright 1991 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              963 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                    July 1, 1991, Monday, HOME DELIVERY TWO

Quotas show who's likely to get immigration visas

BYLINE: By Paul Watson TORONTO STAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1120 words


   For people in a hurry to make Canada home, it's a good time to be living in
the Middle East, western Europe or the United States.

These three regions are the big winners on Canada's visa quota list, which is
the best tip sheet for figuring out where 220,000 immigrants will come from this
year.

But people desperate to leave Latin America, the Caribbean and black Africa are
the big losers.

They'll all have to compete for a smaller share of immigrant visas, according to
federal figures released to The Star.

That's going to mean more grief for hundreds of Latin Americans who have already
waited months and years to bring in close relatives, said Metro community worker
Emily Cartwright.

"It's something we deal with daily here, the frustration and unhappiness of
people waiting so long," said Cartwright, co-ordinator of the Centre for Spanish
Speaking Peoples.

"It's very, very painful. And the thought that there's going to be a further
decrease in the ability of people to be reunited with their families is really
sad."

The visa caseload allotted to the United States has gone up 5 per cent, to
13,081 cases.

Visa offices in the Middle East and Arab north Africa got a 13 per cent boost in
their immigration level to 9,308 cases, while those in western Europe received a
9 per cent increase to 22,855 cases this year.

But Africa over-all has suffered a fall to 1,902 visa cases this year, a figure
25 per cent less than last year's number.

The external affairs department, which comes up with the figures, lumps all of
Africa and the Middle East together, producing an over-all increase of 4 per
cent.

And Canadian visa officers in all of Latin America and the Caribbean can handle
only 11,273 cases this year, including government and privately sponsored
refugees, a total that represents an 11 per cent drop from last year.

The sharp decline has a lot to do with a bias against immigrants from less
developed Third World countries, a bias that has marred Canada's immigration
policy for decades, Cartwright argued.

"I think that Canada's immigration policies have always been racist and
discriminatory," said Cartwright, who says Ottawa's get-tough policy on refugees
has made things worse in the last five years.

"It's just tragic given the political situation in most Latin American countries
right now."

But a federal official who helps calculate the immigration visa levels says they
reflect a delicate balancing act in a world with more qualified immigrants than
Canada can handle.

One of the main reasons for the sudden changes is Ottawa's decision last year to
start recruiting more refugees with specific work skills the provinces want.

That means foreign posts that traditionally have more requests to reunite
families than applications from skilled workers have to take an automatic
cutback.

A shift in responsibility for El Salvador from Costa Rica to Guatemala explains
the two most startling changes: a 223 per cent increase for Guatemala and a 79
per cent decline in San Jose, Costa Rica, said the external affairs official,
who spoke on condition he not be named.

The collapse of communism in Europe has also shaken Canada's immigration system.

The visa office in Vienna, Austria, will handle 75 per cent fewer visa files
this year, mainly because last summer Ottawa killed a special program for
refugees from former East-bloc countries in eastern Europe.

Meanwhile, the refugee quota has shot up 172 per cent to 601 applications in
Moscow, U.S.S.R., where the Soviet government has relaxed exit controls.

The visa share in Budapest, Hungary, jumped 165 per cent, but the external
affairs official said privately he's not sure if enough applicants will qualify.

Quebec's demand for more French-speaking immigrants helped boost the immigration
target in Paris, France, by 105 per cent to a total of 5,440 cases.

But across the English Channel in London, England, the quota dropped 24 per cent
to just 3,520 visa applications.

Canada's consulate in Dublin, Ireland, suffered one of the biggest quota cuts -
62 per cent - and can process only 174 cases this year.

That's because relatively few qualified people have tried to immigrate from
Ireland in recent years, the official said.

By contrast, Canada's high commission in Hong Kong is allowed to process a total
of 13,900 immigrant visa applications.

Hong Kong has by far the largest immigrant visa operation - 13 per cent of
Canada's global total - because Ottawa is trying to cut a huge backlog there.

"Do we let an Irish person walk in the door, apply today and get dealt with when
we tell people in Hong Kong to wait for three years?" the external affairs
official said by way of explaining the difference.

"The object is to try and be fair around the world."

Hong Kong is allotted the most spots in the waiting line because so many
residents qualify to join family in Canada, set up businesses here or come as
skilled workers, the official added.

"Hong Kong is unique because it's probably the only place in the world where you
have (thousands of) people who qualify in every single category," he said.

The Asia and Pacific region will still be the largest single source of
immigrants with a caseload of 35,680, a 5 per cent cutback from last year's
total.

Under a five-year plan announced last fall, Canada plans to let 220,000
immigrants and refugees settle here this year and total of more than 1.2 million
newcomers by 1995.

About 10,000 of newcomers this year will be refugee claimants who had hearings
in Canada or other people allowed to remain for humanitarian reasons, an
immigration department spokesperson said.

To meet the overseas target, Ottawa tells Canada's consulates and embassies how
many visa cases they're allowed to process each year, whether or not each
application is successful.

When visa officers reach their limit, they're supposed to stop handling new
cases until next year.

The figures determine how many files each visa office can process, not the
specific number of visas that can be issued. A single case could include several
people if a business immigrant applied to bring her husband and children with
her, for example.

Critics say the plan amounts to a quota system anyway because visa officers have
strict limits on the number of cases they can handle.

For years, many visa officers shot past their targets, driving immigration
levels far beyond Ottawa's planned level.

But a Jan. 31 Telex to visa officers released to The Star says visa officers
should finish within just 3 per cent of their target by year's end.

It could mean a black mark on their job performance review if they don't, the
Telex adds.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART: Visa quotas = 1990 and 1991; Canadian visa posts with highest
and lowest percentage change quotas from last yearCanada; immigration; special;
report

                  Copyright 1991 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


                              964 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      The Financial Post (Toronto, Canada)

                     April 22, 1991, Monday, WEEKLY EDITION

A little generosity could have averted the Kurdish tragedy

BYLINE: Andrew Cohen

SECTION: SECTION 1, SPECTRUM; Pg. 7, FOREIGN AFFAIRS

LENGTH: 737 words


Slowly, belatedly, the agony of the displaced Kurds is stirring the world's
conscience. A Toronto newspaper begins a fund-raising campaign (''Care for the
Kurds!'') while Canada sends food and dispatches peacekeepers. Outrage and
empathy are the flavors of the week.

George Bush, worried that military victory is turning into moral defeat, rushes
to the high ground. He offers more aid and orders U.S. troops to create a safe
haven in northern Iraq. ''These people will be protected,'' he vows, after a
month of icy neutrality worthy of Dante's Ninth Circle.

Turkey, having sealed its borders and armed its soldiers with whips and dogs,
finally agrees to admit more refugees. For this great generosity it wins great
publicity and expects great gratitude, preferably in the form of great gifts of
arms and money.

The cynicism swirls about like a desert sandstorm. The West urged the Kurds to
resist Saddam Hussein, and when they tried and failed, it abandoned them.
Suddenly national sovereignty and territorial integrity are reason to do
nothing. The fighting in Iraq is now considered a civil war.

Of all the actors in this morality play, the Turks are the most unconscionable.
It may be, as they claim, that there are already 300,000 Iraqi refugees in
Turkey, and it may be that it is costing US$2.6 million a day to keep them, a
lot for a poor country.

But three million Kurds are said to be in flight, many of them massing on the
Turkish border. There, in the cold and the rain, 1,000 refugees are dying of
exposure, dehydration and dysentery every day.

As it did in Ethiopia in 1984, the world is responding to the pleas and pictures
of these turbanned souls crowding mountain roads, huddling in ankle-deep mud,
filling large graves with tiny corpses. This has become a Biblical exodus, but
did it have to end in Apocalypse?

Consider the last large migration from a country at war. In December 1979, when
the Soviets invaded Afghanistan, frightened Afghans fled to northern Pakistan.
Three years later, they were still coming at a rate of 10,000 to 20,000 a month.

They settled in 300 camps in Baluchistan and North-west Frontier Province. At
the war's height there were about three million refugees in Pakistan, more than
a fifth of Afghanistan's population and the largest concentration of refugees in
the world.


But despite this influx, greater than what Turkey faces, the Pakistani response
was a lesson in compassion. It is one the Turks ought to recall today.

Rather than ordering its soliders on the border to stop the refugees, the
Pakistanis welcomed them. They offered them food, clothing, shelter, and in some
areas, jobs. ''Pakistan has a heart which has a lot of hospitality for those who
need it,'' President Zia ul-Haq told me in 1982. ''We're poor but we're sharing
with friends.''

At Surkhab, one refugee camp along a thin ribbon of water, 126,000 Afghans had
been settled relatively comfortably. Unlike other camps in Africa or Central
America, there was no serious disease or widespread hunger. Some Afghans lived
in tents, others in huts with gardens. There were schools, mosques, and
workshops.

No doubt the refugees had taken a toll. Surkhab was once a dense grassland
teeming with game, rich in fodder and firewood. Now there was none. Landowners
complained the government had confiscated property, farmers resented sharing
scarce water and wood, city dwellers bemoaned the rising cost of food and rent.
But for all that, there was little tension.

It helped that the refugees were Pathans, one of the largest remaining tribal
societies in the world, who had brethren on the other side of the border. It
also helped that they filled a labor shortage in some areas, and that they
attracted billions in military and humanitarian aid which strengthened the Zia
regime.

But that misses the larger point. The Pakistanis were poorer than the Turks but
still responded. They didn't want the Afghans to stay any longer than the Turks
do the Kurds, but they took them in and did what they could. The Soviets are
gone but the war still rages, and many Afghans are afraid to go back.

Now that the Allies are guaranteeing the Kurds sanctuary, they have begun
returning to Iraq. But there are far fewer of them now, and the sadness is that
with a little more generosity and a little less cynicism, the Kurdish tragedy
might not have happened.




LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: COLUMN

                       Copyright 1991 Financial Post Ltd.


                              965 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 31, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The World;
People on the Move Tax Nerves and Resources

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 1472 words

DATELINE: ROME


ITALY showed some of Western Europe's new toughness toward migrants from the
East when it yanked the welcome mat from under 20,000 Albanians who had sailed
across the Adriatic in rickety ships early this month.

They had come in search of work and refuge along the heel of the Italian boot.
Instead, they found squalor and fear of epidemic. In the overwhelmed port of
Brindisi, it took the Government days to mobilize the forces to provide food,
shelter and showers. The official Italian line was clear, and it was intended to
be heard by tens of thousands of other Albanians looking to escape Eastern
Europe's last Communist bastion: You are not political refugees, and if you come
here you risk indifferent treatment and possible repatriation.

Similar barriers are being raised, along with expressions of concern, across
Western Europe and elsewhere as the world faces enormous waves of migration that
have had no parallel since at least World War II.

Over the last two or three years, millions have been displaced -- lured by
hoped-for jobs in richer lands or evicted by hostile regimes, impelled to flee
because of the devastation of war or oppressive rule, or suddenly free to roam
thanks to liberating events like Communism's collapse in Eastern Europe.

A Flow of Humanity

Their movements have been as diverse as humanity itself:

About 310,000 ethnic Turks abandoned Bulgaria in 1989 in the face of forced
assimilation imposed by the then-Communist regime. A year earlier, 60,000 Iraqi
Kurds fled to Turkey saying they had been attacked with chemical weapons by
Saddam Hussein's troops.

Some 150,000 Soviet Jews moved in 1990 to Israel, a near record number that will
continue to grow and that has already triggered alarm in neighboring Arab
countries. Soviet Jews aside, more than a million Poles, Yugoslavs, Albanians,
ethnic Hungarians and Germans and other Eastern Europeans are estimated to have
sought asylum and opportunity in the West last year.

From Honduras, about 50,000 Nicaraguans have moved back home now that the
Sandinistas are out of power. Perhaps 2 million Mexicans cross illegally into
the United States every year looking for work. Countless tens of thousands of
North Africans sailed into southern Europe last year for similar reasons, and
more than 70,000 Vietnamese migrants are known to have gone in 1990 to the
United States, Canada and Australia.  Tens of thousands of Pakistanis and
Filipinos entered Japan both legally and otherwise.

None of this includes the 850,000 or more Egyptians, Bangladeshis, Indians, Sri
Lankans and others who found themselves uprooted with virtually no warning by
the Persian Gulf crisis. These were workers in Kuwait and Iraq, whose departure
last summer and fall created sudden hardships both for themselves and their
native countries.

For example, some 450,000 Egyptian workers are believed to have returned home,
creating an emergency for more than 1.5 million people, according to officials
in Cairo. Estimates of the overall costs -- in terms of lost remittances,
forfeited tax revenues, property abandoned in Iraq and Kuwait and spending for
those coming home -- run into the billions of dollars. That for a country where
the per capita gross national product comes to $550 a year.

These new migrations come on top of earlier movements, some going back decades,
that have made more or less permanent residents of people like the 1.6 million
Turks in Germany, or the Palestinians who make up at least half of Jordan's 3
million people, or the many thousands of Cambodians who have spent more than a
decade in refugee camps along the Thai-Cambodian border.

It is often tempting to describe these displaced souls as refugees. In fact, few
qualify for that designation and the exemptions it often brings from routine
demands for entry visas, work permits, invitations and proof of hard currency.
Under the 1951 Geneva Convention, a refugee is someone with "a well-founded fear
of being persecuted in his country of origin for reasons of race, religion,
nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion."
Simply running away from hard times back home is not good enough. Nor is
escaping from a war or an environmental catastrophe like the burning oilfields
of Kuwait. The United Nations counts 16 million as refugees, but millions more
are in similar circumstances.

No Welcome Mat

As a result, many emigres, especially those from the emerging democracies of
Eastern Europe, find themselves trapped by a form of Catch-22. When they could
easily claim they were political refugees from Communism, they could not get
out. Now that they can move with relative ease, few can claim to be refugees. As
the Albanians discovered in Brindisi, they have fewer recourses when one
industrialized country after another says that there is neither room nor jobs
for them.

Soviet Jews insist they still qualify as refugees because of pervasive
anti-Semitism in the Soviet Union. But the United States, for one, is not so
convinced, and it has set a ceiling of 50,000 Soviet migrants this year. Those
limitations partly explain why so many Soviet Jews are turning to Israel,
increasing political pressures in the explosive region.

With economic imperatives lying behind so much of the worldwide migration,
affluent nations have been feeling they must stem the flow to protect their own
interests.

United States immigration officials say that each year they apprehend up to a
million Mexicans trying to enter the country illegally; they also acknowledge,
however, that perhaps twice as many slip through the net. In Japan, never known
for taking kindly to strangers, there are periodic sweeps against illegal
migrants, usually from southern Asia, and sometimes also against companies that
hire them.

But the most explosive changes have occurred in the last two years in Europe,
where the prosperous West, after having encouraged change in the East for so
long, is now scrambling to keep its poor Eastern cousins from flocking its way.
Western Europeans are conspicuously worried about the Soviet Union, where a new
migration law is being prepared that would codify people's rights to walk out
the front door.

According to some estimates, as many as 30 million Soviet citizens are prepared
to move. The Soviet delegate to a conference on European migration held in
Vienna in January insisted that a more probable figure was 1.5 million to 2
million. In any event, "the Soviet Union's emigration potential is in theory
immense," a French social demographer, Jean-Claude Chesnais, warned at a similar
conference in Rome this month. "Political, economic, religious and cultural
factors all combine to make an increasing number of people want to leave the
country."

The West's hope is to keep them where they are. One solution is to provide
emergency assistance and long-term investment so that staying home will seem
more attractive. Another idea is to discourage Eastern Europeans from believing
that the West is a land of milk and honey. The International Organization for
Migration, a Geneva-based group, advises the West to tell would-be immigrants
about true job prospects, especially in countries like Greece, Spain and Italy,
where unemployment rates are already high.

Even before the new influx from the East, the 12 members of the European
Community were showing increasing impatience and hostility toward immigrants,
especially from the third world. There has been a general tightening of
immigration laws, rooted in a concern that any migrant managing to enter any one
community country will be free to circulate throughout the other 11.

Racial incidents occur these days with depressing regularity even in countries
like Italy, which has long prided itself on tolerance. Across Europe, North
Africans and Turks who account for much of the migration are often regarded as
threats to ethnic and cultural unity. Sometimes they are accused of taking jobs
from natives, even though in many cases they fill low-paid jobs that the locals
no longer will accept.

Demographers now worry that the new east-to-west migration may eclipse the more
traditional movement from south to north by shrinking job opportunities for
third-world immigrants. And unemployment pressures in so-called lesser developed
countries are not about to disappear as populations soar. One migration expert
at the Rome conference, Prof. Reginald T. Appleyard of the University of Western
Australia, reported that in 20 years those poor countries alone will have to
generate more new jobs than now exist in the entire developed world.

Inevitably, many of those people will be forced to look elsewhere for work. In
the face of such needs, specialists caution that simply shutting the West's
front door will not be a useful solution.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Europe -- More than 20,000 people have fled Albania for Greece
and Italy in recent weeks. The hundreds crowded onto this boat, shown arriving
in Brindisi, Italy, were among those who encountered an indifferent reception,
intended to send a message to others who might wish to follow. (Antonello
Nusca/Gamma-Liaison); Iraq -- Thousands of Iraqis are refugees in their own
country, running from destruction and rebellion. Iraqis reached for food being
handed out by the Saudi Army in southern Iraq last week. (Reuters); Africa -- In
more than 12 years of civil war in Mozambique, 800,000 people have become
refugees. More than 200,000 have fled to Zimbabwe, where these two young girls
lined up for food in a refugee camp. (Agence France-Presse); Jordan -- Iraq and
Kuwait relied on foreign workers, most of whom fled during the crisis. These
Indian construction workers fled allied bombing attacks on Basra and ended up in
a transit camp in Jordan. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


                              966 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                        Financial Times (London,England)

                           December 24, 1990, Monday

A new guardian of the displaced

BYLINE: STEFAN WAGSTYL

SECTION: SECTION I; Overseas News; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 615 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Stefan Wagstyl profiles the UN High Commissioner for Refugees


MRS SADAKO OGATA, the Japanese professor who has been named UN High Commissioner
for Refugees, is under no illusions about the challenge of her new post.

She has the quiet manner of a scholar, but the 63-year-old showed at a weekend
news conference plenty of the mental toughness she will need trying to help the
world's displaced millions.

'The number of refugees has doubled in the past 10 years. I would hope that kind
of doubling will not continue. But, from what I have read and from reports, I
believe the refugee situation is quite likely to get worse,' she said.

In Asia and in Africa, the position of refugees was serious, she said. In Latin
America, the situation had improved after the removal of certain military
dictatorships.

However, there was now great concern in Europe about the possibility of more
refugees from the Soviet Union. 'The question is what happens in Europe. This
has global implications,' she said.

Mrs Ogata comes to the post with a formidable record of work for the UN and for
refugees. In 1978-79, she was Tokyo's representative at the UN, one of the few
Japanese women to have reached ambassadorial rank and the only one to have
filled such an important post. She was the UN special emissary to investigate
the plight of Cambodian refugees on the Thai-Cambodian border.

She has been Japan's representative on the UN Commission for Human Rights and
chair of the executive board of the UN Children's Fund. She recently completed a
UN-sponsored human rights mission to Burma.

Mrs Ogata's appointment will raise expectations that Japan, the second-largest
donor to the UNHCR after the US, may increase its contribution. A sudden rise in
Japanese aid seems unlikely, but Mrs Ogata hopes that some extra support may be
forthcoming.

Asked about increased Japanese aid, she smiled at the Foreign Ministry officials
with her and said:'My government has promised to support me.'

She is aware that Japan has had a poor reputation in the west regarding its
willingness to admit refugees, but she said the position had changed in the
decade since 1979, when the government admitted refugees for permanent
settlement for the first time. 'I'm not saying that the changes are enough, but
I think we are heading in the right direction.'

The traditional Japanese idea was that, as a densely populated and culturally
homogenous country, Japan could not afford to admit refugees, said Mrs Ogata.
Even so, Japan was becoming more open. Most refugees, though, preferred
countries with long histories of openness to refugees, especially the US and
Canada.

Some 7,000 refugees have settled in Japan, well short of a government quota of
10,000. Tokyo regularly sends 'recruiters' to East Asian countries, but not with
much success.

Outlining her policies, Mrs Ogata said that, as well as dealing with outflows of
refugees and with their resettlement, the UNHCR had to become involved in
prevention - that is, in trying to deal with difficult conditions before people
felt forced to flee their homes.

'Reaction alone is not enough,' said Mrs Ogata.

Prevention was particularly important in dealing with economic refugees - those
who fled poverty rather than political oppression. Mrs Ogata said economic
development aid could be used encourage such refugees to return home.

She was asked about the controversy over Vietnamese refugees in Hong Kong, who
are being repatriated if they do not oppose returning to Vietnam, and about the
repatriation to China of Chinese who arrived in Japan posing as Vietnamese
boat-people.

Mrs Ogata said the solution to each problem was different - however, 'as a
matter of principle, I am against forcible repatriation.'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The Financial Times Limited


                              967 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                        Financial Times (London,England)

                             May 24, 1990, Thursday

Global Warming;
Big threat seen to economic fabric - Climatic impact

SECTION: SECTION I; UK News; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 312 words


AN INCREASE in greenhouse gases and associated climate changes 'pose a serious
threat' to natural ecological systems and the social and economic fabric,
according to the report on the effects of climate change.

Ice sheet and glacier melting will result in higher sea levels. Millions of
people might migrate from shoreline areas and drought-hit agricultural belts to
areas that have insufficient support services to accommodate them.

'Epidemics may sweep through refugee camps and settlements spilling over into
surrounding communities.'

The Maldives, Tuvalu and Kiribati would be imperilled by sea rise. Coastal areas
of Egypt, Bangladesh, India, China and Indonesia would be inundated by even a
moderate rise in global sea levels. The coasts of industrialised nations such as
the United States and Japan would also be threatened.

Drought would also become serious. The areas at greatest risk, where it might be
difficult to sustain populations, include parts of the Mediterranean zone, parts
of Africa and Asia and in Mexico, Central America and eastern Brazil.

Plant life would be reduced in the Mediterranean area and deserts would extend
in North Africa and the Near East. Serious flooding might occur in the northern
rivers of Russia. In Japan, prolonged periods of drought might alternate with
short periods of intense rain.

Tropical diseases such as malaria would spread to higher latitudes.

Food production overall could be sustained to meet world demand, but
agricultural costs worldwide would increase by 10 per cent.

Present agricultural areas, such as the corn belt in North America, could shift
towards the poles by 200 km to 300 km for every degree of warming. Forests might
move hundreds of kilometres towards the poles. A significant shift in the
permafrost zone would cause disruption to roads, railways building, pipelines
and mines.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 The Financial Times Limited


                              968 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 15, 1989, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

THE NATION;
Who Are the Refugees, And Who's Going to Pay?

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 961 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


IN 1980, when Congress established a comprehensive policy on refugees, there was
widespread agreement that the Federal Government should pay for their
resettlement because the decision to admit them was made entirely by Federal
officials. But that consensus is coming under severe strain as the Federal
Government cuts payments for refugees' health, education and welfare expenses.

State officials say they can no longer guarantee that the refugee resettlement
program will be as successful as it has been for more than a decade. And it has
been successful, producing high school valedictorians, college graduates,
taxpayers and hundreds of entrepreneurs in such places as Orange County, Calif.,
and Arlington County, Va.

''The majority of refugees currently being resettled have much greater needs
than those refugees resettled in the past,'' said Ron Spendal, the Oregon state
refugee coordinator, who serves as a spokesman for the National Governors
Association on the issue.

''The first wave of refugees who came out of Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos were the
doctors, lawyers, politicians and military leaders,'' Mr. Spendal said. ''They
were highly educated, often spoke English and were easily assimilated. The
refugees coming out of Southeast Asia now are farmers and fishermen with much
less education, few vocational skills and little English.''

Many of the new Soviet Jewish emigres are well-educated by Soviet standards. But
that does not mean it is easy for them to find jobs. Soviet doctors, for
example, may need to be retrained as X-ray technicians or physical therapists.

Since 1975, about 1.3 million people have entered the United States as refugees,
according to the State Department. Of that total, more than 857,000 were from
Indochina. In the fiscal year that began Oct. 1, the Bush Administration plans
to admit 125,000 refugees, including 50,000 from the Soviet Union, 6,500 from
Eastern Europe, 51,500 from East and Southeast Asia, 6,500 from the Near East
and South Asia, 3,000 from Africa and 3,500 from Latin America.

The number of refugees is set annually by the President after consultation with
Congress. Federal law does not specify the criteria, except to say the President
should weigh ''humanitarian concerns'' and ''the national interest.'' Fiscal
constraints limit admissions, even as political, ethnic and religious groups
lobby for more.

The quotas are completely separate from those for regular immigrants, who get
visas on the basis of family ties or job skills. Under the Refugee Act of 1980,
a refugee is a person with ''a well-founded fear of persecution.''

A principal goal of the law is to help refugees achieve economic
self-sufficiency quickly. The Federal Government and the states provide services
including medical assistance, job training and instruction in the English
language. Most refugees arrive with no financial resources.

Waning Federal Funds

From early 1980 through March of 1981, the Federal Government reimbursed the
states for all cash and medical assistance given to refugees. Starting in April
1981, the Federal Government limited such payments to a refugee's first 36
months in the United States. In March 1986, Washington cut the reimbursement
period to 31 months, and in February 1988 to 24 months.

For the current fiscal year, President Bush proposed to cut the reimbursement
period to 15 months. Now Congress is providing money for only 12 months. While
planning to admit 125,000 refugees, Mr. Bush acknowledged that his budget would
pay for the resettlement of only 84,000, at an average cost of $6,300 each. He
did not say where the extra money might be found.

Philip A. Holman, acting director of the Federal Office of Refugee Resettlement,
in the Department of Health and Human Services, said the cutbacks did not affect
refugees because they were entitled to the same cash and medical benefits. The
main difference, he said, is that the states pay a larger share.

Walter Barnes, chief of refugee programs in the California Department of Social
Services, said: ''These cuts show the inability or unwillingness of Congress and
the Administration to meet the commitments laid out in the Refugee Act of 1980.
The constant eating away at resources is, I'm afraid, going to eat away public
support for the refugee program.''

Destination: California

California took 45 percent of the 76,391 refugees who came to the United States
in the fiscal year 1988. New York, with 10 percent, accounted for the next
largest share, followed by Florida, Massachusetts and Texas.

Experts warn that the cuts in assistance may increase welfare dependency rates
by depriving newcomers of the aid they need to become productive workers.
Already the rates are substantial: 52 percent of refugees who have been in the
United States for less than two years are receiving some form of cash
assistance. (Rates ranged from 14 percent for Poles to 40 percent for Soviet
refugees and more than 60 percent for Afghans.) Stephen Moore, an economist at
the conservative Heritage Foundation, said: ''As with immigrants generally,
refugees tend to be strong contributors to the U.S. economy. They have low
incomes and high rates of dependency in their initial years in this country. But
after 5 to 10 years, their earnings increase substantially.''

Tax data show that Indochinese refugees who arrived in 1975 had incomes slightly
higher than the national median by 1986, the Department of Health and Human
Services said.

In view of such data, some members of Congress say that refugees should be
required to pay back, after some years, a portion of the money spent on their
resettlement. By taking that step, said Senator Howard M. Metzenbaum, Democrat
of Ohio, ''we could take in more refugees.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nicaraguan applicants for refugee status being interviewed by officials
in Miami (Matrix/Alex Quesada); graph of U.S. ceilings on refugee admissions by
region of origin for fiscal 1990 (Source: Immigration and Naturalization
Service)

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              969 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 15, 1989, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Soviet Refugees, by Any Other Name

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 566 words


How can the Bush Administration turn so heartlessly against Soviet Jews yearning
for freedom? ''Heartlessly'' does not, at first, seem too strong -not when Jewel
Lafontant, the Administration's refugee coordinator, tells Congress, so what if
the U.S. doesn't admit them; they can ''always go to Israel or return to
Russia.''

But the Administration's policy is more hospitable than Ms. Lafontant's callous
words. Soviet Jews were long regarded as refugees by definition: they could
demonstrate ''a well-founded fear of persecution.'' Now that Mikhail Gorbachev
is letting many more of them leave and now that they are less likely to face
persecution if they stay, it is no longer obvious that they are entitled to come
to this country as refugees.

The remedy is to escape the emotional grip of the word ''refugee,'' with all its
legal obligations. The Bush Administration is trying to do that. But it and
Congress now need to figure out how to accommodate more Soviet emigres while
dealing decently with persecuted people elsewhere.

The Administration wants to let in only 6,500 more Soviet refugees in 1990 than
in 1989, even though many more want in. The Administration also opposes bills to
make it easier for Soviet Jews and evangelical Christians to qualify as
refugees. Yet no one wants to deny entry to Soviet Jews.  Humane hospitality
calls for admitting more emigres - but not necessarily as refugees. Many might
be more appropriately accommodated by an Administration proposal to issue up to
30,000 ''special humanitarian visas'' a year.

Under Administration proposals as many as 100,000 Soviet citizens, most of them
Jews, would enter the United States next year: 50,000 as refugees, 20,000 as
immigrants and the rest under the new visas.

Only those formally designated as refugees are eligible for public assistance.
As many as 14 million people around the world could so qualify. But tight
budgets make for tough choices. For the $7,000 on average that it costs to
assist each refugee who resettles here, the U.S. could help hundreds of refugees
in Africa and Asia.

Until a year ago, Soviet Jews and evangelical Christians were presumed to be
refugees. Then the U.S. Government concluded that this blanket status was no
longer appropriate for Jews and insisted on interviewing applicants one by one.
Some members of Congress proposed legislation restoring blanket refugee status.
They acknowledge that religious persecution is the exception in Mikhail
Gorbachev's Soviet Union. But they sense a surge in anti-Semitism under
glasnost, and fear the exit door might not remain open forever.

The difficulty with that argument is there's a limit to the number of refugees
America can accept. Granting refugee status to some people as a class would rule
out accepting others with compelling claims, like Chinese students or
Salvadorans.

The sensible course is to continue to admit those Soviet Jews who qualify, in
case-by-case interviews, as refugees. The Administration will now expedite that
interviewing. Meanwhile, the backlog of 17,000 Jews now waiting in Vienna and
Rome could be cleared up by issuing them the new special visas, if private
sponsorship can be arranged. They would be eligible for citizenship.

Not all Soviet emigres who want to come can be accommodated as refugees. But
there are other ways, more worthy of urgent Congressional support, to open the
door.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              970 of 996 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                          September 13, 1989 Wednesday
                                  Late Edition

US TO CURB INTAKE OF SOVIET REFUGEES

BYLINE: Source: The Washington Post

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 411 words


WASHINGTON, Tuesday: The Bush Administration plans to propose to Congress that
the United States accepts 50,000 refugees from the Soviet Union during the
coming year - far fewer than the 100,000 to 150,000 Soviet Jews, evangelical
Christians and other Soviet citizens expected to seek admission to the country
in 1990.

The 50,000 slots proposed for Soviet emigres, most of them Jews, would make them
the biggest single subgroup of the 125,000 refugees that the Administration will
recommend admitting during fiscal 1990, which begins on October 1.

Still, it would mean that the US, after waging a two-decade struggle to induce
Moscow to ease its restrictions on emigration, will be in the embarrassing
position of turning away thousands who had hoped to resettle here.

The figures are contained in a confidential memorandum prepared by the State
Department's co-ordinator for refugee affairs. Informed sources said yesterday
it had been approved tentatively by the White House and would be proposed to
Congress by the Attorney-General, Mr Dick Thornburgh, and other US officials
this week.

In addition to the Soviet quota, the memo proposes refugee allotments of 3,000
for Africa during the 1990 fiscal year, 25,000 for refugees from East Asia,
26,500 spaces primarily for Amerasians and their families, 6,500 for Eastern
Europe exclusive of the Soviet Union, 3,500 for Latin America and the Caribbean,
6,500 for the Middle East and South Asia and 4,000 for others coming under
various private sector programs.

Refugee status quotas are fixed by the Administration in consultation with
Congress.

The Federal Government pays refugees' transportation and resettlement costs, and
the rising numbers of people seeking such status from troubled areas of the
world have put a greater strain on the budgetary resources than the
austerity-minded Administration is willing to commit.

Much of the problem stems from the easing of Soviet emigration policies by the
Soviet leader, Mr Mikhail Gorbachev, after emigration had been sharply curtailed
for several years.

An estimated 2 million Jews live in the Soviet Union, and State Department
officials have told Congress 100,000 to 150,000 are expected to seek admission
next year.

That has led to an informal consensus between the Administration and influential
groups in the American Jewish community that the number is too large for the US
to absorb. There is an expectation that most of those barred entry will be
redirected to Israel.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1989 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


                              971 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                        Financial Times (London,England)

                           August 2, 1989, Wednesday

Namibia Accord Allows 40,000 To Return Home;
In Search Of Refuge

BYLINE: Michael Holman

SECTION: SECTION I; Overseas News; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 779 words


The settlement of conflicts which have caused people to become refugees should
logically encourage their return.  But if they have been refugees for a long
time their return becomes problematical.  It is therefore heartening that after
13 years of war in Namibia, some 40,000 refugees are going home; and in Central
America the prospect of ending almost 10 years of war in Nicaragua has
encouraged some of the 80,000 refugees to return.

Namibia, once part of a seemingly intractable dispute, shows how effectively
refugee agencies can operate once a political settlement is in place.

These victims of more than two decades of war are amongst the beneficiaries of a
United Nations settlement plan drawn up more than 10 years ago, and which from
the start made specific provision for the welfare of Namibians who fled their
country's conflict to the comparative safety of neighbouring Angola and Zambia.

First attempts at dealing with the refugee problem came in 1978, when the UN
endorsed Resolution 435, the basis of the US-brokered settlement eventually
accepted by South Africa, Angola and Cuba in New York last December.

At the time, the refugees' plight was peripheral to the central issue: how to
persuade South Africa to end its control of the territory, declared illegal by
the UN in 1966.

Fighting ended late last year, when South Africa agreed to cede independence to
Namibia in return for a phased Cuban withdrawal from Angola.  At that point the
refugees moved from being part of the fine print of the settlement to being a
pressing concern.

On April 1 this year the UN plan was set in motion, and on-the-ground
preparations for the refugees' return from Angola - where most were living - and
Zambia began.  Three entry points were designated: the Namibian capital of
Windhoek, Grootfontein in the north-east, and Ondangwa, near the Angolan border.
Reception centres were set up to provide temporary accommodation.

Because of the long distances, most of the refugees would return by air,
involving 350 charter flights, costing nearly a quarter of the whole exercise's
Dollars 40 m budget.  Guarantees of safety were drawn up.  Special arrangements
were made for the ill, elderly, and handicapped.

Efforts to help returnees become re-united with their families and relatives and
find homes and jobs got under way, assisted by the International Red Cross and
the Council of Churches in Namibia.  The timing of the exercise was also linked
to the implementation of other aspects of the settlement plan - such as the
repeal of remaining discrimnatory laws.

The programme encountered hitches: an incursion by Angolan-based guerrillas of
the South West Africa People's Organisation (Swapo) on the eve of April 1, the
formal start of the seven-month transition to elections, saw a renewal of
fighting in the north.  Negotiations between the UN and the South African
authorities over the terms of an amnesty for refugees took longer than expected.

As a result the first refugee flight, originally scheduled for May 15, did not
take place until June 12, when the first aircraft landed at Windhoek.  But by
mid-July nearly 21,000 refugees had returned home, 19,000 from Angola, and
nearly 2,000 from Zambia.

"In northern Namibia, where most of the returnees originate," says Mr Jeff
Crisp, a UNHCR official, "the operation has been going almost exactly as
planned.  As new arrivals fly in from Angola," he explains, "those who returned
three or four days previously are leaving the reception centres and making their
way back home.  Some are collected by friends and relatives, while others are
taken to local church mission stations and schools which have been established
as secondary centres.  Two or three days later, they move on to their own
village."

In the meantime the refugees are unwittingly at the heart of a growing political
dispute.  Swapo - which has been allowed effective control of the refugee camps
- and the host governments have claimed that the camps hold as many as 80,000
people.  Funds have been allocated by the UNHCR and other agencies on the basis
of this figure, which has never been independently verified.

Last month Mr Jean-Pierre Hocke, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, said
only 41,000 refugees had registered to return.  UNHCR officials believe this is
close to the final figure.

Swapo officals maintain that nothing improper has taken place, although rival
political parties in Namibia claim that some of the funds and materials
earmarked for refugees - worth Dollars 4 m at its peak in 1984, says Mr Hocke -
have been put to other uses, such as helping maintain Swapo and its
Angolan-based guerrilla army.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing, no caption

                   Copyright 1989 The Financial Times Limited


                              972 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 22, 1989, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE WORLD;
Should Every Emigre Really Be Equal Under the Law?

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1031 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


CONGRESS did away with quotas based on national origin when it overhauled the
immigration law in 1965. And in 1980 it abolished the presumption that anyone
fleeing Communism was a refugee. But experience in the last few months shows
that it is much easier to write an evenhanded law than to carry it out in the
face of political pressures reflecting special concern for particular groups of
emigres.

The issues sound legalistic, but they generate impassioned debate because of
what they involve: freedom, the reunification of families scattered around the
world and the opportunity to live in the United States. In setting refugee
policy, American officials wrestle with an endless series of problems requiring
difficult choices.

The subject of Soviet emigres reflects the complexities. For decades, the United
States has been demanding that the Soviet authorities permit their citizens to
leave the country. Washington was happy to take all the Soviet citizens who
gained permission to come here.

But in the last year, American policy has succeeded beyond the dreams of any
American official. Moscow is allowing so many people to leave that it now seems
the United States cannot accommodate them all within its refugee quota. After
setting the 1989 quota at 18,000 from the Soviet Union, President Reagan
increased the number shortly before leaving office to 25,000, mainly by reducing
the quota for Southeast Asian refugees. And even that will not be enough;
American officials estimate that 50,000 Soviet citizens will apply to come here
as refugees this year. Mr. Reagan could have increased the Soviet quota without
reducing the allocation for any other part of the world, but that would have
required additional funds for the resettlement of refugees, and the Reagan
Administration did not want to ask Congress for the money.

At the same time, the United States has concluded that some Soviet applicants do
not qualify for refugee status because they cannot demonstrate ''a well-founded
fear of persecution'' in the Soviet Union. That finding enrages some Jewish
groups, which assert that virtually all Soviet Jews still face persecution on
account of their religion.

Comparing the Merits

State Department officials say they do not like to compare one country with
another because each has a distinctive identity and history. But in deciding how
many refugees to admit from each part of the world, the United States must
compare the merits of their claims because neither the Federal budget nor public
opinion would permit an unlimited increase in the number of refugees admitted to
this country.

The United States has always been a nation of immigrants, and refugees are, in
one sense, a legacy of American political and military intervention around the
world.

Indochinese refugees do not have a powerful lobby in Washington at this time,
but the United States has strong reasons to take many of them. Some used to work
for the United States or for the old Government of South Vietnam and have been
political prisoners. Hundreds of thousands of Indochinese refugees have found a
temporary haven in countries of ''first asylum'' like Thailand and Malaysia. But
those countries offered shelter only after receiving assurances that the
refugees would eventually be resettled in the United States and other Western
countries. The United States contends that some of the emigres are economic
migrants, not genuine political refugees - a distinction made with increasing
frequency in recent years.

The Reagan Administration also felt a special obligation to some refugees in
Central America. Mr. Reagan assured Honduras last year that the United States
would accept responsibility for thousands of Nicaraguan guerrillas living in
Honduran camps. Secretary of State-designate James A. Baker 3d said last week,
''We cannot and we must not abandon'' the contras. Some in the State Department
and Congress predict that eventually most of the contras and their relatives
will find a home in the United States. That prospect infuriates some liberals
like Representative George Miller, Democrat of California, who sees the problem
as a result of Reagan Administration policy in Central America.

In the last few months, immigration officials have reported an increase in the
number of would-be refugees from Central America, especially Nicaragua. But
officials in Miami, which has welcomed Hispanic immigrants for three decades and
has been the destination for most Nicaraguan migrants, say they cannot cope with
the latest wave.

The Bush Administration will be considering a proposal by State Department and
immigration officials under which Congress would establish a new category of
immigrant. The proposal would provide visas for 20,000 to 30,000 aliens whose
admission was deemed to be in the ''foreign policy interest'' of the United
States.

The proposal would, in effect, move away from the principle established in 1965
and reaffirmed in 1980 that the United States should not favor specific
nationalities, but should employ uniform worldwide standards in deciding who
qualifies as an immigrant or refugee.

Mr. Bush said earlier this month that he would ''take a hard new look'' at
immigration policy, and, he added in an understatement, ''There are no easy
answers.''

CHANGING TIDES
Refugees admitted to the United States (fiscal years)

                                Eastern    Soviet     Latin   Middle East/
             Africa      Asia    Europe     Union   America     South Asia
1975              0   135,000     1,947     6,211     3,000              0
1976              0    15,000     1,756     7,450     3,000              0
1977              0     7,000     1,755     8,191     3,000              0
1978              0    20,574     2,245    10,688     3,000              0
1979              0    76,521     3,393    24,449     7,000              0
1980            955   163,799     5,025    28,444     6,662          2,231
1981          2,119   131,139     6,704    13,444     2,017          3,829
1982          3,326    73,522    10,780     2,756       602          6,369
1983          2,648    39,408    12,083     1,409       668          5,465
1984          2,747    51,960    10,285       715       160          5,246
1985          1,953    49,970     9,350       640       138          5,994
1986          1,315    45,454     8,713       787       173          5,998
1987          1,994    40,112     8,606     3,694       315         10,107
1988          1,588    35,015     7,818    20,421     2,497          8,415


(Source: State Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


                              973 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 21, 1988, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE WORLD: Q & A: U.S. Refugee Coordinator;
What the World Owes 12 Million Refugees

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 774 words


THE world has about 12 million refugees, people who fear persecution in their
homeland, including many who have been uprooted by war. The war in Afghanistan
created the world's largest refugee population, some five million people who
have lived in Pakistan and Iran. Though civil war may continue in Afghanistan,
the Soviet withdrawal is raising hopes for repatriation.

But most refugees are not going anywhere, either back to their own countries or
to settle permanently in a third country. In fact, their numbers are growing in
some parts of the world. In East Asia, a new exodus from Vietnam is straining
the hospitality of other countries. In Africa, more than 300,000 Somali
refugees, fleeing civil war, have crossed the border into Ethiopia in the last
two months.

Though America may still be a haven and ''a brilliant light beam of freedom,''
as President Reagan put it last week at the Republican convention, the country
decided long ago that it could not accept all the refugees who want to come
here. What then is the United States' obligation to the uprooted? Robert Pear, a
reporter in the Washington bureau of The New York Times, discussed refugees with
Jonathan Moore, the United States Coordinator for Refugee Affairs.

Question. You wrote recently that ''the essence of government is making
necessary choices between competing uses of public resources.'' Are you saying
that despite the words on the Statue of Liberty, the budget makes choices about
refugees necessary?

Answer. Absolutely. Getting authorization to bring in larger numbers of refugees
is easy. What's difficult is to get the funds to pay for them. They don't come
in for free.

But the real problem is not in admissions of refugees to the United States. It's
in assistance to refugees who will never come to the United States and probably
never be resettled in any other country - people who are in refugee camps in a
situation of first asylum, who are in desperate suffering and deprivation and
danger all around the world. Less than 1 percent of the 12 million refugees in
the world are going to resettle in a third country.

Falling Behind

The United States is the leader in the world in overall terms of helping
refugees. Nevertheless, we have been slipping recently in our contributions, and
on a per capita basis, have slipped from fifth to ninth.

We give approximately, on a per capita basis, a little less than a dollar a
year.

The Nordic countries and

Switzerland are giving a great deal more per capita.

And in terms of admitting refugees, the United States now ranks fifth in the
world behind Australia, Canada and the Nordic countries.

Q. Hong Kong, Malaysia and Thailand, which have been the first stopping points
for refugees to be resettled elsewhere, are tightening up admissions, even
closing their doors.

A. It is a very great reason for concern. It is the responsibility of the United
States to emphasize the moral imperative in providing first asylum.

It is also up to the United States to work on longer-range policies that will
manage this desperate tension between giving refugees first asylum and
overburdening the first-asylum nations.

Q. Is it feasible to consider sending back Indochinese migrants to the countries
from which they came?

A. Repatriation programs must be voluntary, and they must be internationally
supervised so that reprisals are avoided. But in the long run, repatriation has
got to be an important part of any strategy which will achieve stability. We've
got to distinguish between refugees who meet the international definition and
those who are economic or illegal immigrants.

Q. Some Southeast Asian countries argue that they are tightening up because the
United States has not been generous enough in resettling people.

A. Actually, the United States has now settled over 820,000 refugees from
Southeast Asia. In 1986, the United States took 19,000 refugees from Thailand;
in 1987, 20,000. This year, we will take more than 23,000 refugees from
Thailand.

Nevertheless, there are still large numbers of refugees in Thailand, over
100,000, including many who have been there for three to five years without
being resettled. That makes first-asylum countries, in this case Thailand,
frustrated and anguished.

We have a very interesting dynamic whereby funds for admissions purposes tend to
crowd out funds for assistance purposes. The politics and the governmental
processes of admissions are more intense and more intimate, because many refugee
families who have been resettled in the United States want to be reunited with
relatives who are still in refugee camps.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Cambodian refugees in Thailand (Magnum/ Ian Berry); map
showing number of refugees throughout the world (Source: U.S. Committee for
Refugees)

TYPE: Interview

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              974 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 8, 1988, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

The Budget Makes Refugee Choices Necessary

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 316 words


To the Editor:

I cannot agree more with the compassion and humanitarian purpose reflected in
''Cruel, and Needless, Choice of Refugees'' (editorial, Feb. 17), on Vietnamese
refugees being turned back by Thailand, the expected upsurge of Soviet Jewish
and Armenian refugees, and the State Department's consideration of reallocating
some slots for Southeast Asian and other refugees to accommodate those from the
Soviet Union.

Where humanitarian needs are concerned, all choices are cruel. But it is wrong
to characterize such policy decisions as needless. Our problem is a lack of
funding, and the essence of government is making necessary choices between
competing uses of public resources.

The Administration agrees that we should meet the needs of refugee admissions
from Southeast Asia and the needs of people allowed to leave the Soviet Union
and Eastern Europe. We must also provide relief, assistance and protection to
millions of refugees in Africa, the Near East, Central America and Southeast
Asia, many in life-threatening situations who never will have the chance to
resettle in any third country. It is sad that the Department of State does not
have an unlimited budget for these or other humanitarian purposes, compelling as
they are.

In suggesting that we simply use emergency authority to raise the refugee
admissions ceilings, you overlook the controlling element of budgetary
resources. Refugee admissions cost money. The money for new, unpredictable
admissions flows is not available. For the fiscal years 1988 and 1989, the
Congressional leadership and the Administration have concluded a compact that
caps the Federal budget, not excluding its humanitarian programs. This is the
reality and the challenge that we confront, requiring absolutely necessary
choices.

JONATHAN MOORE
United States Coordinator
for Refugee Affairs
  Washington, Feb. 27, 1988

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


                              975 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 16, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Ersatz Refugees

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 300 words



To the Editor:

Your idea to offer ''emergency protection to a national group whose homeland is
racked by armed civil conflict, environmental disaster or other 'extraordinary
and temporary conditions' '' is seriously flawed (''Make America a Fair Safe
Haven,'' editorial, June 29).

Any national from a country certified under your proposal would be eligible for
admission, whether or not that individual was actually in distress. At some
point, legitimate refugee claimants would be displaced by ersatz refugees,
including economic migrants, thus undermining the very premise of
humanitarianism and fairness on which your proposal is presumably based. It is
precisely to defend the interests of genuine refugees that the Refugee Act of
1980, which your proposal would effectively supercede, provides for case-by-case
adjudication.

''Safe haven'' would involve millions of people if admissions criteria were
broadly construed. Imagine, if you will, offering safe haven to the victims of a
flooded Yangtze River, earthquakes in Mexico, Ecuador and Italy, a volcano in
Colombia, a typhoon in Ceylon, the conflicts in Lebanon, El Salvador, Northern
Ireland, the Philippines, South Africa and Sri Lanka, to name but a few. After
they had been afforded ''temporary'' safe haven, what would be their incentive
to leave, and how would their departure be enforced? If you have the answers,
you're way ahead of the State Department and the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

Your ''safe haven'' notion is a dangerous, ill-conceived and superfluous idea
that if enacted will harm many of the people it purports to serve, not the least
of whom are the American people.

ROGER CONNER
   Executive Director, Federation
   for American Immigration Reform
   Washington, June 30, 1987

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

                   Copyright 1987 The New York Times Company


                              976 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                      The Financial Post (Toronto, Canada)

                      May 31, 1986, Saturday, ALL EDITION

News Digest

SECTION: SECTION 1; Pg. 2, NEWS DIGEST

LENGTH: 761 words


  THE WORLD

SOUTH AFRICA ATTACKED TARGETS in the capital cities of Zimbabwe, Zambia and
Botswana in raids on what it said were terrorist bases of the outlawed African
National Congress. South African forces bombed a Congress office and a home in
Harare, Zimbabwe, attacked a housing complex in Gaborone, Botswana, and bombed a
UN-administered refugee camp near Lusaka, Zambia. The raids, directed by
President Pieter Botha, drew angry responses from the three attacked nations,
and from foreign nations including the U.S. and Canada.

THE DEATH TOLL MOUNTED as Sri Lankan government forces attacked Tamil
separatists in and around the town of Jaffna. Troops bombed and strafed the
town, which has been held by the separatists for a year, and other sites nearby.
The guerrillas replied by blowing up a factory and attacking a government
outpost. The Tamils are fighting to make their northern peninsula a separate
state.

RIGHT-WING AFRIKANER EXTREMISTS led by Eugene Terreblanche (above) took control
of a political meeting in Pietersburg, preventing a speech by Foreign Minister
Roelf Botha and attacking the government for its moves to dismantle apartheid.
Waving swastika-like banners, the Afrikaners demonstrated until police tear
gassed the hall. Meanwhile, black factions waged a bloody battle in the
Crossroads squatter's camp near Capetown, killing at least two dozen people and
burning huts. The week's fighting left an estimated 30,000 people homeless.

CANADA

TWO CANADIAN CLIMBERS stood atop Mount Everest after battling fierce weather for
several days on their ascent. Sharon Wood and Dwayne Congdon, both of Canmore,
Alta., were chosen from a team of Canadian climbers to make the final assault on
the summit, which took 18 hours from start to finish. The two planted the flags
of Canada, China, and the Continental Bank of Canada, one of the climb's
sponsors. Wood is the first North American woman to reach the peak.

CANADA-U.S. FREE-TRADE TALKS finally got under way, as Canadian chief negotiator
Simon Reisman and U.S. negotiator Peter Murphy met for preliminary discussions
to decide issues and timetables. The talks began amid a flurry of speculation
and comment. NDP Leader Ed Broadbent criticized the makeup of Canada's
negotiating team, and decried countervailng actions taken only days before
against Canadian lumber imports. The government also released a number of
reports on the impact of free trade, showing positive results as well as a
possible loss of jobs.

OTTAWA MOVED TO ACCEPT THOUSANDS of immigrants claiming refugee status, in
preparation for a new, steamlined procedure for dealing with refugee cases.
Walter McLean, minister of state for Immigration, said 75% of 22,000 people now
seeking refugee status will become landed immigrants to clear the way for the
new system, which will allow a maximum of two hearings, instead of the present
nine.

FOREST FIRES CONTINUED TO RAGE in Newfoundland and New Brunswick, resisting
attempts to douse them despite help from some rain. By week's end the fires had
consumed more than 200,000 acres in Newfoundland and 115,000 acres in New
Brunswick, destroying a dozen homes and about 30 camps, cottages and
outbuildings. Fires also burned in Northern Ontario, forcing 1,000 people to
flee a subdivision near Thunder Bay.

BRITISH COLUMBIA PREMIER Bill Bennett announced he will retire this summer after
10 years in office. Bennett said he is leaving with the province and his Social
Credit Party in good shape. His surprise resignation ends a 30-year dynasty that
started with his father, Premier W.A.C. Bennett, but Bennett said he will not
stay too long in office, as his father did.

THE PROVINCES

ONTARIO'S DOCTORS CALLED for a two-day strike this week in protest of the
province's move to ban extra-billing. The call came after Health Minister Murray
Elston said he will proceed with the legislation since talks with the doctors
produced no agreement on the issue. Hospital services and other essential
facilities will be manned during the strike.

A TORONTO BUSINESSMAN was sentenced to a year in jail after his company
persisted in dumping pollutants into the municipal sewers. An Ontario Supreme
Court judge found Keith Alexander guilty of contempt of court for ignoring a
prohibition order directing his plating company, Jetco Manufacturing Ltd., to
stop the pollution. Jetco, which had 69 previous convictions, was fined
$200,000. Alexander appealed the conviction, the first jail sentence in Canada
for a pollution-related offense.




LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: NEWS

                       Copyright 1986 Financial Post Ltd.


                              977 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             December 25, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

SAN FRANCISCO BACKS PLAN TO SAFEGUARD REFUGEES

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 496 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Dec. 23


The Board of Supervisors has voted 8 to 3 Monday to adopt a resolution declaring
the city a sanctuary for refugees from Central American countries.

The board also voted Monday, 11 to 0, to approve an ordinance that would prevent
the city from investing in or entering into contracts with businesses with links
to South Africa.

Neither measure can take effect before a second reading in two weeks, after
which Mayor Dianne Feinstein will decide whether to sign them.

The sanctuary resolution tells city employees, including police officers, that
they need not report law-abiding Salvadorans or Guatemalans or cooperate with
the immigration authorities in arresting such people. An estimated 80,000 people
from Guatemala and El Salvador live in San Francisco.

Similar resolutions have been passed recently in Los Angeles, West Hollywood,
Berkeley, Chicago, St. Paul and Cambridge, Mass., despite opposition from the
Reagan Administration.

''We are not asking anyone to do anything illegal,'' said Supervisor Nancy
Walker. ''We have got to extend our hand to these people. If these people go
home, they die. They are asking us to let them stay.''

Supervisor Willie Kennedy, a co-sponsor of both ordinances, denied that the
board was ''meddling in foreign affairs.''

''I think we're dealing with human rights issues, not foreign affairs,'' she
said.

The sanctuary resolution says the police, like other officials, are not required
to help the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service find law-abiding
refugees.

Under Federal law, citizens are not required to report illegal aliens, except
for peace officers who observe the aliens entering the country, she said.

The ordinance is aimed at protecting refugees already in the United States from
being returned to their homelands, Supervisor Kennedy said.

Harold Ezell, director of the Western regional office of the immigration
service, last week called the proposal ''irresponsible activity'' and said
elected officials who support such actions were going ''against their oath to
uphold the law.'' He said granting sanctuary to the refugees would eventually
cost taxpayers thousands of dollars in welfare benefits. He has also said that
people from such Central American countries enter the United States for economic
reasons, rather than to escape persecution.

The ordinance on South Africa investments, meant to protest that country's
policies that segregate and deny rights to nonwhites, would exempt contracts
worth less than $5,000 and existing contracts with companies that have dealings
in South Africa.

The companies that already have contracts with the city would be required to
divest themselves of their South Africa investments before their contracts could
be renewed.

Other exceptions would be contracts for goods produced only in South Africa or
in cases where the City Treasurer had determined that San Francisco would suffer
financially by avoiding a business with South Africa connections.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              978 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 24, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

SAN FRANCISCO APPROVES BILL TO DESIGNATE IT A SANCTUARY

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 489 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Dec. 23


The Board of Supervisors voted 8 to 3 today to adopt a resolution declaring the
city a sanctuary for refugees from the Central American countries.

The board also approved, 11 to 0, an ordinance that would prevent the city from
investing in or entering into contracts with businesses with links to South
Africa.

Both measures must be approved upon a second reading in two weeks, after which
Mayor Dianne Feinstein will decide whether to sign them.

The sanctuary resolution tells city employees, including police officers, that
they need not report law-abiding Salvadorans or Guatemalans or cooperate with
the immigration authorities in arresting such people. An estimated 80,000 people
from Guatemala and El Salvador live in San Francisco.

Similar resolutions have been passed recently in Los Angeles, West Hollywood,
Berkeley, Chicago, St. Paul, and Cambridge, Mass., despite opposition from the
Reagan Administration.

''We are not asking anyone to do anything illegal,'' said Supervisor Nancy
Walker. ''We have got to extend our hand to these people. If these people go
home, they die. They are asking us to let them stay.''

Willie Kennedy, a co-sponsor of both ordinances, denied that the Supervisors
were ''meddling in foreign affairs.''

''I think we're dealing with human rights issues, not foreign affairs,'' she
said.

The sanctuary resolution says the police, like other officials, are not required
to help the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service find law-abiding
refugees.

Under Federal law, citizens are not required to report illegal aliens, except
for peace officers who observe the aliens entering the country, she said.

The ordinance is aimed at protecting refugees already in the United States from
being returned to their homelands, Supervisor Kennedy said.

Harold Ezell, the director of the western regional office of the immigration
service, last week called the proposal ''irresponsible activity'' and said
elected officials who support such actions are going ''against their oath to
uphold the law.'' He said that granting sanctuary to the refugees eventually
would cost taxpayers thousands of dollars in welfare benefits. He also has said
that people from such Central American countries enter the United States for
economic reasons, rather than to escape persecution.

The ordinance on South Africa investments, meant to protest that country's
policy of racial segregation, would exempt contracts worth less than $5,000 and
existing contracts with companies that have dealings in South Africa.

The companies that already have contracts with the city would be required to
divest themselves of their South Africa investments before their contracts could
be renewed.

Other exceptions would be contracts for goods produced only in South Africa or
in cases where the city treasurer had determined San Francisco would suffer
financially by avoiding a business with South Africa connections.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              979 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 16, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

NEW YORK DAY BY DAY;
A 'Benefactors' Benefit Lives Up to Title

BYLINE: By Susan Heller Anderson and David W. Dunlap

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 192 words


In 1933, at the urging of Albert Einstein, the International Rescue Committee
was founded to help refugees from Hitler's Germany. In 1985, it is aiding
refugees from Afghanistan, Ethiopia, Iran, Poland and other countries.

The organization has refugee camps in Africa, Asia, Europe, Latin America and
the United States. It provides medical help and food first, resettlement
programs later.

All this costs money - last year more than $16 million was raised in private
donations, grants and contributions from other agencies. On Friday, the
organization held a benefit at the opening preview of ''Benefactors,'' at the
Brooks Atkinson Theater on West 47th Street, and raised almost $40,000.

The committee currently aids 7,000 new immigrants nationwide and about 400
refugees locally, helping them find jobs, schools and places to live.

''New York has a higher concentration of political refugees than any other city
except Paris,'' said Leo Cherne, an economist and the committee's chairman.

''They have the kind of drive and energy that those of us who are comfortable
have lost. In the crassest economic terms, they truly enrich our society.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              980 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 15, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE US ACCEPTS TOO MANY REFUGEES

BYLINE: By Richard D. Lamm; Richard D. Lamm, Governor of Colorado, is co-author,
with Gary Imhoff, of ''The Immigration Time Bomb: The Fragmenting of America.''

SECTION: Section 4; Page 23, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 720 words

DATELINE: DENVER


America's golden door has always been open to refugees. The widespread interest
in the ultimately unsuccessful effort of the Ukrainian seaman Miroslav Medved to
defect to the United States shows how eager Americans are to offer sanctuary.

But have we thought through the implications of this policy in a crowded,
unstable world? One refugee is a symbol; a million refugees (we have taken in
800,000 from Southeast Asia alone in the last decade) constitute a major
demographic event.

In a world already awash with refugees, some potential hot spots demand
attention. The Government of the Philippines could be violently overthrown.
Possibilities for a peaceful solution in South Africa seem small. The residents
of Hong Kong face major changes as it reverts to Chinese rule. In the name of
human rights, we demand that two million to three million Soviet Jews be allowed
to emigrate. Already 10 percent of El Salvador lives in the United States.

When revolution sounds a government's death knell, the bell also tolls for us.
In keeping with our tradition as a haven for the oppressed, we have Richard D.
Lamm, Governor of Colorado, is co-author, with Gary Imhoff, of ''The Immigration
Time Bomb: The Fragmenting of America.'' taken in more refugees for
resettle-ment than all other nations com- bined, while also absorbing an influx
of new immigrants in the past two decades under our normal procedures.

This year, we will accept 76,000 new refugees, 270,000 immigrants under
established national quotas and 190,000 immediate relatives of American
citizens. At times of crisis - the exodus from Mariel, Cuba, and the fall of
Indochinese governments -we have admitted many more. With no new calamity yet
upon us, now is a good time to reassess the choices we want to make on our
immigration policy.

Under our system of accepting refugees, applicants must establish that they are
currently being persecuted or would be subject to persecution if they returned
to their homelands. They then are processed under six priorities: those in
immediate danger of losing their lives, or have no alternative to resettlement
here, or for whom there is a compelling national concern; former employees of
the United States Government; family reunification (even reunification with
grandparents can establish an anchor); other specified ties to the United
States; family reunification with still-more-distant relatives; and other
admissions in the national interest.

Take the Philippines as an example. An overthrow of the Government by Marxist
revolutionaries could result in pressure for us to admit a large number of new
refugees. Former Marcos associates would flee. The embassy in Manila is our
largest in the world and Filipino employees working there outnumber Americans 3
to 1. Many of the 56 million Filipinos could claim family reunification and
''other ties.'' After Mariel, can we discount ''boat lifts'' from the
Philippines's harbors?

Isn't it time that we ask ourselves whether the United States is running its
refugee policy or it is running us? We must decide how many people we can absorb
into our economy and assimilate into our culture. Congress should set a cap on
the number of new immigrants we will accept in future years from all categories
- immediate relatives, quota immigrants and refugees. I suggest that we hold the
line at the 527,000 we are accepting this year. Increases in refugee admissions
will need to be offset by fewer immigrants under our normal procedures.

However, in order to avoid crowding out too many of the immigrants who now come
to us under established national quotas, we should simultaneously narrow the
refugee criteria to include only persons who clearly face imprisonment or
execution if required to return home, and their spouses and minor children. It's
tragic that people have to live under totalitarian regimes, but we simply do not
have the capacity to accept new large infusions of refugees for resettlement on
top of our regular immigrant quota.

While it is impossible to predict where or when, the future is soon going to
present us with painful choices that will challenge our historic traditions. Yet
for our children's sake, we must ask, ''How much compassion can we afford?'' At
some point, our compassion to share what we have will destroy what we have.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

TYPE: OP-ED

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              981 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 10, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

U.N. REFUGEE AGENCY WARNS OF MONEY CRISIS

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 15, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 523 words

DATELINE: GENEVA, Nov. 9


The office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, citing a severe
financial crisis, will appeal for urgent contributions from donor nations at a
pledging conference to be held in New York next Friday.

The 35-year-old agency, which says it has assisted about 25 million people, has
said it is in its worst financial crisis ever, with a budget shortfall that by
the end of this year will be about $40 million.

''We are up against the wall,'' said the High Commissioner, Poul Hartling of
Denmark, in a recent interview. ''We are not crying wolf; it is a bad
situation.''

The financial crisis is attributed both to the strength of the dollar, which
reduced the value of donations in other currencies, and to the strain of
emergency programs to relieve the effects of drought in Africa.

Officials of the agency are planning to ask major donor nations such as the
United States, Britain, Canada and West Germany for an immediate grant of about
$100 million.

''Normally, we are short of money at the beginning of the year because
governments announce pledges but it takes time before they pay,'' said Mr.
Hartling, who is to leave office on New Year's Day. ''Normally we have a
carry-over of funds from the previous year. But we are afraid there won't be any
this year and therefore the problems for 1986 are very real.''

Mr. Hartling has warned repeatedly in recent weeks that without more money, the
agency will have to reduce or stop a number of programs, including ones that
provide school equipment, housing, medical treatment and help with agriculture.

''We will do our utmost not to come to the point of life or death for refugees,
'' Mr. Hartling said, referring to food programs. ''We have never reached that
situation and I don't think the international community will accept it.''

Donations from the 70 nations that contribute to the agency increased 24 percent
this year, providing for a total budget of $319 million. In addition, the office
undertook a special $107 million program for African drought relief.

Normally, only about one-third of the annual budget is pledged during the
November meetings, and only a part of that is provided for immediate use, agency
officials said. The agency is forbidden from borrowing money or spending more
than it has. Unlike nearly all other United Nations-related agencies, it does
not assess member or donor nations for contributions.

Officials of the agency say the present crisis is one of limited resources in
the face of massive needs, making the situation unlike those in which the agency
has been short of funds before.

During Mr. Hartling's eight-year tenure, the agency has seen a steady rise in
the number of refugees, who have included more than 500,000 Vietnamese boat
people, three million Afghans fleeing the war in their homeland, hundreds of
thousands fleeing Cambodia and hundreds of thousands of refugees from drought
this year alone in the Sudan and Ethiopia.

''Refugees are not like a business,'' Mr. Hartling said. ''The number doesn't go
up every year by 5 percent or so. It goes up and down, up and down. And these
days, it's going up.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              982 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 6, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Reform Jews Endorse Sanctuary for Refugees

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 133 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 5


Reform Jews representing 791 synagogues in the United States and Canada ended a
five-day convention here today with a denunciation of racism in South Africa and
a call to provide sanctuary for Central American refugees.

About 3,000 delegates attended the 58th biennial convention of the Union of
American Hebrews Congregations, which has 1.3 million members in the United
States and Canada and is the most liberal Jewish denomination.

Among the resolutions adopted by delegates at the closing session today was one
that condemned South Africa's policy of strict racial separation and another
that endorsed ''legislation which would temporarily suspend deportations of
those fleeing El Salvador and Guatemala and oppressive regimes until they can
safely return to their countries of origin.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              983 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 8, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

CHIEF OF U.N. AGENCY FOR REFUGEES ASKS DONORS TO GIVE MORE MONEY

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 16, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 888 words

DATELINE: GENEVA, Oct. 7


The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees appealed today for $74 million
to help his agency meet a severe budget shortfall.

The commissioner, Poul Hartling, warned that failure to get the money could
limit existing and planned refugee programs.

Officials of the commissioner's office said the problems in the agency's $319
million general budget and a $107 million emergency budget for aid to African
drought victims marked the most severe financial crisis in the United
Nations-related agency's 34-year history and came at a time when the agency's
refugee caseload seemed to be expanding steadily.

In an address to the commission's donors, who are opening their annual meeting
here, Mr. Hartling, who is from Denmark, also called for ''large contributions''
at a pledging conference scheduled for Nov. 15 at the United Nations in New York
so the commission could begin its 1986 programs on time in January.

''The practical implications could be that refugee settlement or durable
solutions will be stopped,'' Mr. Hartling said about the problems. ''Housing and
schools for refugees will not be built. Health and basic education services and
equipment will have to be reduced to a minimum. And it goes without saying also
that the administrative costs of U.N.H.C.R., both in headquarters and the field,
are subject to the most severe restrictions.''

Agency's Steady Expansion

From a ''nonoperational'' agency formed in 1951 to give international protection
to refugees after World War II, the office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees has seen its budget expand steadily to $35.2 million
in 1978, when Mr. Hartling became the commissioner, and over $400 million in
general and emergency assistance programs this year.

Mr. Hartling said the commission had raised $262 million so far this year in
voluntary contributions from its 73 members, or $57 million less than budgeted
for general programs. He said the agency also still lacked $17 million in its
emergency program for Africa, for a total shortfall of $74 million.

Commission officials said the United States, which provides about 30 percent of
the agency's annual budget needs, had already pledged nearly $18 million in
additional money, allowing the commission to scale back its original estimated
shortfall of $92 million. The officials put much of the blame for the shortfall
on an overvalued American dollar, which has driven down the value of
contributions in other Western currencies, as well as on the burden imposed on
contributing nations by the African drought situation.

''The crisis is not a result of a lack of good will or sympathy towards refugees
and their needs,'' Mr. Hartling said. ''The needs of refugees are considerable -
in Africa, Asia and Latin America - and I realize that the demands on donors
this year have been massive.''

'Critical Funding Situation'

''However, it is of absolute primary importance that U.N.H.C.R. be given the
resources to do the job which is expected, indeed, demanded of us,'' Mr.
Hartling said. ''U.N.H.C.R. is often called upon to undertake additional or
special programs - a good example is our African emergency programs -but in
essential terms, the general program must remain our first priority. It is for
that reason that the critical funding situation we face for the general programs
for both the remainder of the 1985 and for 1986 is so serious.''

Western diplomats said the executive committee, which meets annually here in
October to work on policy for the commission's development and administration,
was expected to discuss possible solutions to the commission's financial
troubles that could include changes in budgeting and planning. The diplomats
acknowledged, however, that no one could have foreseen how much aid would be
needed to deal with this year's crisis in Africa.

''There is a feeling that somehow, something should be done differently and
better, but there are no immediate answers,'' one diplomat said. ''It's very
hard to plan for a drought situation, or a Latin American or Afghan crisis. The
U.N.H.C.R. is indeed the U.N.'s fire brigade. And though there is a crisis
shaping up, it's too easy to say they just ought to do things better.'

Mr. Hartling, who is to retire at the end of this year, said the commission's
work is complicated not only by the growth in its financial needs, but also by
what he called a ''lack of a political solution to the problems'' that give rise
to refugees. In addition to the African drought victims, the commission must
annually deal with millions of Afghans fleeing the war in their country, as well
as the so-called boat people and other refugees still fleeing Vietnam, and
refugees in Latin America, Eastern Europe and the Middle East.

''It is not for me to say what those political solutions might be,'' Mr.
Hartling said. ''That belongs to the challenges the United Nations must face as
it moves into its fifth decade.''

''When we talk about the work of the United Nations, is this not one of its most
positive achievements?'' Mr. Hartling said, noting that his agency had helped an
estimated 30 million refugees in its history. ''Yet there are times when it is
indeed a depressing task. It is the task of the high commissioner to make the
reason of the heart prevail over the reason of states.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Poul Hartling (Victor Lusinchi)

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              984 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 13, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

PRESBYTERIANS END INDIANAPOLIS CONVENTION

BYLINE: Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 410 words

DATELINE: INDIANAPOLIS, June 12


The Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) ended its 197th General Assembly here today
after reaffirming its support for abortion rights, efforts to harbor Latin
Americans as refugees and divestment in South Africa.

The generally liberal agenda was passed in the face of a growing conservative
tide within the church.

Marj Carpenter, a spokesman for the church, said that most of the delegates left
the convention reassured about the direction of their church. ''Some came in
worried because of the tone of the country,'' she said, expressing concern about
a perceived national conservative trend.

The Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) was formed in 1983 by the merger of Northern
and Southern wings of the church, healing a split that dated to the Civil War.
The church has 3.1 million members and is the sixth largest Protestant
denomination in the nation.

The most hotly debated item among the 676 delegates who gathered here at the
Indiana Convention Center was a series of 21 challenges to the church's support
for abortion rights. One group, Presbyterians Pro-Life, mounted a vigorous
lobbying effort, but their motions were defeated in a voice vote Tuesday night.

The Rev. Ben Sheldon of Havertown Pa., president of the anti-abortion group,
claimed a partial victory because the convention made ''a clear statement'' that
abortion ''should not be used as a means of birth control.''

However, the Rev. Douglas Oldenberg of Charlotte, N.C., head of the committee
that rejected the challenges to the church's position, said the birth control
statement was implicit in church documents on the subject dating to 1970.

On the issue of sanctuary for Latin Americans who say they are political
refugees, the convention approved a $100,000 contribution toward the defense
fund for 16 church workers arrested for harboring illegal aliens in the
Southwest.

The convention also voted to withdraw its investments in companies that do
business with South Africa because of that nation's racial separatist policies.
Church officials said that about $6 million was involved in pension and
foundation funds.

In another move seen as reaffirming the Presbyterians' liberal position, the
delegates rejected the application of a group called Presbyterians for Democracy
and Religious Freedom that sought to organize within the church. The group has
ties to the Institute on Religion and Democracy, a Washington-based group that
supports the Reagan Administration's policies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              985 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 28, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

FOR REFUGEE WOMEN, AN EVEN HARDER ORDEAL

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD D. MAY

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 9, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 660 words

DATELINE: GENEVA, April 27


Refugee women suffer all the familiar problems of life in exile: a sense of
isolation, powerlessness and loss of status. But a growing number of relief
workers, physicians and psychologists say women who have left their homelands
bear extra burdens as well.

''Women are the most vulnerable refugees,'' said Monique Bauer-Lagier, a Swiss
doctor and politician who led a roundtable discussion on the topic organized by
the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in Geneva on Friday. And, she
added, ''few measures are taken to respond to their specific needs.''

The United Nations body estimates that there are now more than 10 million
refugees in Africa, Asia, Central America and elsewhere and that most of them -
in some countries an overwhelming majority - are women.

Dr. Bauer-Lagier and the other 17 members of the forum stressed that women are
chiefly responsible for preserving cultural and religious traditions and for
maintaining a semblance of normal life in refugee settlements. It is women, they
said, who keep the family together, see to its well-being, raise and educate the
children and often carry out most of the household and agricultural tasks.

Yet in many refugee camps, said Jeane J. Kirkpatrick, former chief United States
delegate to the United Nations, ''women are not fully valid, they do not have
the right to represent themselves vis-a-vis the authorities, for example, even
to register to receive rations by right.''

Refugee women, particularly those who are pregnant or have young children, face
special nutritional and health problems that are often not met, participants
said. In one camp in Thailand, said Angela Berry, a nutritionist with the United
Nations body, three-quarters of the children of refugees have died in the last
four years.

Refugee women may also want, but are not be provided with or allowed access to,
contraceptives and other family planning materials.

And because illiteracy is much higher among refugee women than among men, it is
more difficult for women to acquire the skills necessary for survival and
self-sufficiency in foreign societies. As a result, some turn to prostitution
and other illegal activities. Sexual discrimination, harassment and violence
against refugee women is distressingly common, speakers said.

Women are also likely to have more difficulty than men finding nations that will
grant them asylum. ''A lot of countries are willing to take able-bodied males
who are about to be breadwinners but are not willing to take a woman who they
think is going to be a dependent,'' said Dr. Kirkpatrick.

She said refugee women are ''often particularly ill-equipped to make their way
in new societies because they probably didn't have equal educational rights in
their own countries.''

Others at the meeting noted that women are often not involved in, and even
unaware of, the reasons that they are in exile.

''Exile is often something they undergo as a result of someone else's
decision,'' said Rosiska Darcy de Oliveira, a Brazilian lawyer and writer.

Gisele Halimi, a French lawyer, writer and delegate to the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, added that rather than being
participants in the international and civil struggles that uproot populations,
women commonly become ''the booty of war.''

A disagreement that in Dr. Kirkpatrick's words ''remained latent throughout the
discussion'' concerned the factors that push people into exile. Several
participants cited ''neo-colonialism'' and the inequality of wealth between the
industrialized nations and the developing world as largely to blame.

Maureen Reagan, a women's rights activist, a Republican Party consultant and
daughter of the American President, placed the onus elsewhere.

''When we see the suffering of women and children refugees in the world today,''
she said, ''we must deplore the actions of governments which force people from
their homes in search of freedom.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              986 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 2, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

SECOND-CLASS REFUGEES

BYLINE: By Arthur C. Helton ;
Arthur C. Helton is director of the political asylum project of the Lawyers
Committee for International Human Rights.

SECTION: Section A; Page 27, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 696 words


In the last six months, 18 people have been indicted for their efforts to
provide refuge for Central Americans seeking asylum in the United States. The
people involved in this ''sanctuary movement'' - it is a grassroots effort,
organized largely by church groups in the Southwest - argue that political
considerations here are determining whether or not those seeking asylum are able
to obtain refuge from political violence and persecution at home. Their argument
has undeniable force.

The United States has traditionally proclaimed a generous and compassionate
approach to refugee problems. The rhetoric has not, however, always been matched
by actual accomplishments, and in practice people fleeing Communist-dominated
regimes have been favored over those fleeing merely authoritarian or
totalitarian regimes.

The Refugee Act of 1980 grants refugee status to anyone seeking to enter the
United States because of a ''a well-founded fear of persecution'' on account of
race, religion, nationality, political opinion or social standing. In theory, at
least, the standard is nondiscriminatory.

In practice, however, it has been badly distorted. Our overseas admissions
program, in particular, falls far short in meeting the needs of those who apply
for asylum. The United States has agreed to admit up to 70,000 extra refugees in
1985 - above and beyond the normal ceiling of

270,000. The problem lies in the Government's stipulations about where the
70,000 should come from.  In the last year, more than one million people have
fled from El Salvador and Guatemala. Similar displacements have occurred in
Afghanistan and Ethiopia. Yet in 1985, we will accept no more than 3,000
refugees from Latin America, 5,000 from the Middle East and 3,000 from Africa -
with the remaining 59,000 coming from the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe and
Indochina.  Those are the official ''ceilings''; actual admissions are even more
imbalanced. In 1984, for example, only 93 Salvadorans and no Guatemalans were
admitted as refugees.

Still further ideological discrimination confronts those asylum seekers who
manage to enter the country. In 1984, only three of 761 Guatemalan applicants (1
percent) were granted asylum; only 328 of 13,373 Salvadorans (3 percent) were.
This contrasts sharply with the rates for Bulgarians (52 percent), Hungarians
(28 percent) and Russians (51 percent).

Why the inequity? Consider the case of El Salvador. As a matter of foreign
policy, the executive branch (which includes the immigration authorities) has
every incentive to characterize the political climate in El Salvador as an
improving situation - an image that would be jeopardized if we were granting
asylum to large numbers of Salvadorans. A report prepared in 1982 for
circulation within the Immigration and Naturalization Service conceded that only
those Salvadorans with a ''classic textbook case'' have any hope of being
admitted as political refugees. Frequently, even that is not enough.  All
Salvadorans and Guatemalans fleeing war are not necessarily entitled to asylum
under the standards of the Refugee Act. They are, however, entitled to fair and
unbiased consideration of their cases. What they face, instead, is a stern and
unlawful prejudgment against their claims - and in practice the overwhelming
majority of them are characterized as ''economic migrants,'' regardless of their
particular circumstances.  Is there a more humane alternative, short of a
revision of the asylum law? A powerful argument can be made that Salvadorans and
Guatemalans fleeing the arbitrary risks of war, even if not eligible for asylum,
should be granted ''safe haven'' until the hostilities subside. Such protection,
which could be made available through either legislation or executive action,
has been offered in the past to Poles, Afghans and Nicaraguans. It should be
made available across the board.  The sanctuary movement is a testament to the
unfulfilled promise of the Refugee Act of 1980. The ultimate answer cannot, of
course, be continued disregard for the law. Rather, the law must be applied to
all in the nondiscriminatory and humane spirit in which it was written.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

TYPE: OP-ED

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              987 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 21, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

THE VICE PRESIDENCY;
JET LAG OR NO JET LAG, BUSH IS ON A ROLL

BYLINE: By GERALD M. BOYD

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 788 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 20


In the past two weeks, without skipping a beat, Vice President Bush mingled with
starving refugees in central Africa, represented the United States at a state
funeral and an inauguration, met with the new Soviet leader, Mikhail S.
Gorbachev, underscored continued United States support in Grenada and Honduras
and even lectured one of the Administration's leading antagonists, President
Daniel Ortega Saavedra of Nicaragua.

Not bad, even for Mr. Bush, who had traveled 610,000 miles on official
Government business before this latest outing. In the recent pilgrimage and rush
of activities, he flew 29,600 miles and spent almost two and half days in flight
aboard Air Force 2.

Aides and others inside and outside the Administration say the period saw Mr.
Bush at his best. Not only did he perform under settings as different as a
refugee camp is from the Kremlin, but he also did so nearly flawlessly, they
say.

At Just the Right Time

The success comes at just the right time. Already, Mr. Bush is frequently
mentioned as the front-runner in the Republican Presidential derby in 1988. And
the enormous and decidedly favorable publicity of the past two weeks has not
been unnoticed in political circles.

Meanwhile, what some officials see as an attempt by Mr. Bush to enhance his
staff is expected to begin when the new chief of staff, Craig Fuller, takes over
next month. Mr. Fuller is a highly regarded former assistant to President Reagan
who has contacts within both the White House and Republican political circles.

Mr. Bush has also been playing a more visible role in setting and carrying out
Administration policy. He recently delivered the Administration's attack on a
''peace proposal'' by Mr. Ortega, and on Monday, the day before the Senate voted
in favor of more MX missiles, he made a major speech on that issue that garnered
some attention in the press.

Today, when President Reagan decided to nominate Bill Brock as the new Labor
Secretary, the only officials in on the meeting were Mr. Bush, the White House
chief of staff, Donald T. Regan, and the deputy chief, Michael K. Deaver.

But his recent foreign trip was one of the Vice President's biggest successes to
date. In fact, among some who accompanied him on parts of the trip, the joke was
that the only mistake Mr. Bush made was not having a camera crew along to shoot
footage for his 1988 political commercials.

Discussing the trip as he sat comfortably in his Senate office awaiting the
critical vote on the MX, Mr. Bush said:

''I have felt very comfortable doing this. There may have been some mistakes,
but I do think that things went pretty well.''

Indicative of Mr. Bush's performance was his handling of a news conference in
Niamey, Niger, where he was peppered with one difficult question after another.
Not only did he escape any gaffes, he even managed to end the conference by
signing off in French, a popular finale in the former colony of France.

In addition to Africa, Mr. Bush went to Moscow for the funeral of Konstantin U.
Chernenko and then to Grenada, Brazil and Honduras.

Mr. Bush said he regretted that ''the importance and emotional commitment'' he
attached to his trip to Africa's starving regions had been ''transcended by the
world event'' of the Chernenko funeral.

''Some of what we wanted to do,'' he added, ''was obscured by the understandable
interest of what happened in Moscow, and then by the whole thing blending into
Grenada, Brazil and Honduras, all of which I found for its own peculiar reasons,
very important.''

Mr. Bush said his most significant impression of Mr. Gorbachev, whom he met with
for 85 minutes, was the extent to which he reflected a generational shift in
Soviet leadership. Mr. Gorbachev, he added, ''has a sparkle and he has a very
disarming way about him, yet he comes across very forceful.''

But the Vice President cautioned that his observations were based on the new
leader's style and not substance. ''In terms of the message, I see no radical
shift in line,'' he said.

The brief meeting with Mr. Ortega, which came while both officials were in
Brazil for the inauguration of a new civilian government, was unexpected. Mr.
Bush has been a leading critic of Mr. Ortega's Sandinista Government,
criticizing it as Marxist-Leninist and frequently waving a letter with
Nicaraguan postage stamps that he says proves his point.

He said of his meeting with Mr. Ortega, which he characterized as having an
element of ''show biz:''

''I said, 'You want to talk? You've already talked to the Secretary of State. We
want to see some action - freedom of the church, freedom of the press, free
elections. I had a chance to at least get our point of view across.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Vice President Bush

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              988 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 22, 1983, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

ABOUT BOOKS AND AUTHORS

BYLINE: By Edwin McDowell

SECTION: Section 7; Page 46, Column 3; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 637 words


EXILED IN AMERICA

REFUGEES fleeing from Central America, Cuba, Africa and Asia have dominated
newspaper headlines in recent years, but memories remain vivid of the earlier
exodus from Hitler's Europe. Several recent books recount that era during which
a generation of scientists, writers, musicians, artists, architects and scholars
fled from lands occupied or threatened by the Nazis, although the focus of each
of the books is not so much the Third Reich as how well the uprooted refugees
and exiles adjusted to their new surroundings.

"Exiled in Paradise" by Anthony Heilbut concentrates on German refugees artists
and intellectuals in America, including Hannah Arendt, Albert Einstein, Peter F.
Drucker, Kurt Weill and Lotte Lenya. "Strangers in Paradise" by John Russell
Taylor is an account of both German and non-German writers and artists -
including Alfred Hitchcock, Fritz Land, Thomas Mann and Aldous Huxley - who, for
various reasons, began flocking to southern California from the time Hilter came
to power in 1933. "Brecht in prominent exiles to California. And "The Muses Flee
Hitler," essays about the experiences of European Jews and non-Jews who
resettled not just in the United States but also in Britain, Canada, the Far
East and South America.

"The Muses Flee Hitler" recounts the successes of Hannah Arendt and Kurt Weill,
the bitterness of composer Bela Bartok and the tragedy of the author Stefan
Zweig, who committed suicide along with his wife in Brazil. (Several of Zweig's
books have been published recently in the United States by Harmony Books.)
"Muses" is published by the Smithsonian Institution Press, known primarily for
its reference works and books on the natural sciences, American history and
anthropology. The book is based on two colloquia sponsored in 1980 by the
Smithsonian Insitution to honor the centennial of the birth of Albert Einstein,
who became an American citizen in 1940.

THE SUCCESS OF 'DUNE'

FRANK HERBERT'S "God Emperor of Dune," number nine on the Times mass market
best-seller list, is that rare bookt hat has become a best seller in hard-cover,
trade paperback and now mass market paperback.  Moreover, it was published in
all three formats by the Putnam Publishing Group.

The hard-cover edition became a best seller soon after its publication by G. P.
PUtnam's Sons in the spring of 1981. The trade paperback, published by Berkley
in April 1982, was on the Times bestseller list for 16 weeks. And themass market
edition, with some 800,000 copies in print, hopped onto the list earlier this
month.  Ironically, it appears on the list at a tie when few other
science-fiction titles are represented, even though science fictionis a
perennially strong category on the various Times lists.

Like Louis L'Amour, a current best-selling author in hard-cover, Mr. Herbert
developed his craft in paperback. After writing a novel published in hard-cover
in 1956, the former West Coast journalist put in along apprenticeship and built
a loyal following by writing more than 20 books for a half-dozen paperback
houses. "God Emperor of Dune" is the fourth book in his series about the
fictional locales.  Last year, for instance, he published "The White Plague," a
novel about a madman who unleashes a plague in Ireland, England and Libya.  Mr.
Herbert has a new book on the way titled "The Lazarus Effect," but readers will
have to wait for fall to discover its setting.

A LONG LIFE

IF the title of George Burns's new book isn't enough to tempt you to plunk down
$11.95 - it's called "How To Live To Be 100 - Or More: The Ultimate Diet, Sex
and Exercise Book" - perhaps the book's dedication will convine you that the
87-year-old celebrity may really have stumbled onto something. It reads: "This
book is dedicated to the widows of my last six doctors."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1983 The New York Times Company


                              989 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 19, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

U.N. REFUGEE CHIEF GETS A NEW TERM

BYLINE: By BERNARD D. NOSSITER, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 21, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 932 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, N.Y., Dec. 18


Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar has settled a backstage political
struggle here over the key post of High Commissioner for Refugees.

He has chosen Poul Hartling, a longtime Danish politician, to succeed himself.
But Mr. Hartling's term will be limited to three years instead of the usual
five. Mr. Hartling, whose agency cares for about 10 million refugees from war
and political oppression around the world, performed with enough distinction
that his organization received a Nobel Peace Prize last year. But two other
competitors jumped into the battle for his $96,000-a-year post and groups of
ambassadors worked strenuously on their behalf, as others did for Mr. Hartling.

So Mr. Perez de Cuellar decided to soothe the feelings of the losers and award
Mr. Hartling a shortened second term. Mr. Hartling has been Denmark's Prime
Minister and led its middle-of-the-road Liberal Party and is a Lutheran
clergyman. The General Assembly is still to approve Mr. Perez de Cuellar's
decision, but that is regarded as automatic. The fact that Mr. Hartling nearly
quadrupled contributions to his agency in his first five-year term is seen as a
powerful political point.

The 2 Competitors

His strongest competitor was Dafallah el-Hag Yousif Medani, Minister for
Religious Affairs in the Sudan, home to 600,000 refugees from Ethiopia. The many
African countries here are a strong lobby, and their envoys worked in corridors
and at lunches and parties for Mr. Medani. They contended that Mr. Hartling had
spent too much time and money on the homeless from Afghanistan and Southeast
Asia while neglecting Africa's four million refugees.

In addition, the Netherlands promoted Max van der Stoel, twice a Foreign
Minister and an advocate of human rights. He is 10 years younger than the
68-year-old Mr. Hartling, and polite suggestions were made that the Dane should
give way to a more youthful competitor. Mr. Medani is 48.

Apart from the Scandinavian nations, the United States backed Mr.  Hartling.
Washington puts up $120.4 million of the High Commissioner's $430 million
budget, more than six times as much as the next largest contributor, Japan.

At first, Mr. Perez de Cuellar proposed that Mr. Hartling stay on for just two
more years. ''That's insulting,'' Mr. Hartling said in a recent interview. ''To
make me a lame duck for two years, I wouldn't like that.''

But three years apparently was enough for Mr. Hartling to fly again.

A Reason for Hope

Mr. Hartling wants to continue, he said, ''to help as many refugees as we've
helped up to now.'' ''The encouraging thing,'' he said, ''is that the refugees
we are helping now are not those we had in the past.'' In his agency's 31 years,
he calculated, 25 million refugees have returned to the countries they fled or
have resettled in new lands.

He dismissed the assertion that he was too old for the job. ''I feel fit,'' he
said. ''What is age? That's different for different people.'' His post,
presiding over a relatively slim bureaucracy of about 1,000, is ''demanding,''
he said, but it is also ''rewarding.''

He said the complaint that he had neglected Africa was untrue. In his five
years, he said, he has spent $650 million there on refugees, seven times the $90
million spent on Africa in the preceding five years.

Moreover, he opened a drive last year for emergency money to aid victims of
Africa's turmoil. Although the campaign fell far below his goal of $1.2 billion,
it did bring in an extra $225 million.

His biggest headache is the 2.7 million Afghans who have moved across the border
into Pakistan to escape the war between Soviet troops and insurgents fighting to
overthrow the Soviet-installed Government in Kabul. ''We have put them in tented
villages,'' Mr.  Hartling said, ''but few are self-supporting. The majority
can't live except on what we give them.''

The High Commissioner warmly praised the poor nations who take in the refugees.

Problems in Central America

Some of his touchiest political problems involve Central America.  About 35,000
Salvadorans have fled to Honduras to escape their Government, and the guerrillas
it is fighting; similarly, 6,000 Nicaraguans have gone to Honduras, leaving the
Sandinist Government.  Sometimes the Honduran authorities, sympathetic to the
Salvadoran Government, have forced refugees back across the border.

Mr. Hartling said that Honduran officials had ''assured us it won't happen
again.'' As an attempt to provide insurance, he has assigned four unarmed agency
officials to patrol the Honduran-Salvadoran border on horseback. ''Their
presence can help stop such incidents,''he said.

Mr. Hartling has even locked horns with the United States immigration
authorities over refugees from El Salvador and Haiti.  Since Washington supports
both Governments, American officials have tended to regard these people as
economic migrants seeking jobs rather than political refugees who fear
persecution at home.

The High Commissioner has urged the United States to observe international
convention and examine each case on its merits. ''I am satisfied it is the
intention of the Administration to follow the rules,'' he said. ''Perhaps there
were some incidents in the beginning, but I think it is improving very much.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


                              990 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 18, 1981, Friday, Late City Final Edition

THE ENEMY THAT MOROCCO FACES IN THE SAHARA

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 547 words


To the Editor:

Marlene Sokol's Dec. 3 Op-Ed article on the Western Sahara is riddled with
factual errors, and the conclusions she draws read like the high points of the
Polisario play book.

No knowledgeable observer has ever accepted Polisario's contention that some
750,000 Western Sahara natives now reside in Algerian refugee camps. One of
America's top experts on North Africa came away from the refugee zone with an
admittedly rough estimate of 35,000, and many analysts would suggest that even
that figure includes a fair number who are not from the Western Sahara at all
but from neighboring states, such as Mali, Niger or even Libya.

In any event, King Hassan certainly did not drive hundreds of thousands of
Saharans from their villages. In fact, in the initial stages of the takeover
(1975-76), Moroccan troops were dispatched to the countryside to round up and
return to their homes Saharans who had fled from the warfare.

If the Moroccan army were confronted only by Polisario, the war in the Western
Sahara would have dwindled into insignificance long ago.However, there have been
at least three major engagements between the Moroccan and Algerian armies during
the six-year-old conflict.  Algeria trains the guerrillas and serves as the
conduit for arms and ammunition from other countries.

It may well be that the Moroccan army suffered a setback at Guelta Zemmour in
the most recent fighting, but we submit that Miss Sokol has no evidence to
support her contention that it was a ''brutal defeat.'' Furthermore, it is well
known that Moroccan strategy over the past few years has focused on securing the
coastal towns of Dakhla, Layoun and Bujdor along with the inland town of Smara
and the phosphate mines at Bu Craa. Guelta Zemmour is hundreds of kilometers
from any of those localities.

The United States is not the only major power supplying arms to Morocco. France,
too, has a longstanding military-supply relationship with the kingdom, witness
the Mirage jets used by the Moroccan air force.

Miss Sokol downplays the concern expressed by Secretary of State Haig and other
U.S. officials at Polisario's reported use of Sovietmade tanks and
surface-to-air missiles. Yet, as the Administration maintains, the use of those
weapons does represent a significant new factor in the warfare.

Miss Sokol suggests that King Hassan enjoys ''little popular support'' at home
on the Saharan issue. That assertion is the most patently absurd of her article.
There is no doubt that the conflict has brought considerable hardship to
Morocco, but even more certain is that no political issue since the drive for
independence 25 years ago has united Morocco more than the demand for
''reintegration'' of the kingdom's ''Saharan provinces.''

Even Miss Sokol's backhanded compliment to the Moroccan King is in error. She
says he has offered ''lukewarm endorsement of Camp David.'' Rubbish! The King
did offer some initial encouragement to President Sadat's quest for peace with
Israel, but Morocco has remained firmly within the Arab camp, having opposed the
Camp David framework since its signature in 1978.
DOUGLAS and RACHIDA ROBERTS, Bethesda, Md., Dec. 3, 1981. The writers are
journalists who worked for the Voice of America in Africa and in the Middle
East.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              991 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 14, 1981, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

THE OTHER REFUGEES

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 426 words


To the Editor:

The Sept. 28 Op-Ed article on Somalia maintained that a total of about 2.1
million Somalis and Oromo have fled the Ogaden and now live in Somalia. However,
before the present conflict started, only about one million people inhabited the
Ogaden region.  Very few Oromo ever lived there.

he Oromo, one of the largest ethnic groups in Africa, account for 60 percent of
Ethiopia's population. However, the Amhara, Ethiopia's ruling minority, do not
recognize the Oromo (whom they call Galla), because to do so would focus
international attention on ethnic conflict within the empire. The Amhara, who
constitute less than 15 percent of the empire's population but have ruled since
the 19th century, have systematically driven the Oromo from their fertile lands
and subjected them to torture, imprisonment, forced conscription and execution.

The Oromo refugees with whom I spoke at the August meeting of the Seventh
Congress of the Union of Oromo Students in North America left Ethiopia for
various reasons. Some were wanted by the police for teaching the Oromo language
in village schools. Some had been jailed and tortured on suspicion of belonging
to Oromo political organizations. Others decided to leave Ethiopia after a close
friend or family member had been killed or jailed ''indefinitely.''

Recently stepped-up military action by Ethiopia's junta has caused still more to
flee. Last April and May Reuters and the Scandinavian missionary magazine Vart
Land independently reported that the military had sprayed flammable chemicals
over an Oromo-populated valley in southern Ethiopia and then ignited the
chemicals with rockets and incendiary devices launched from helicopter gunships.
Besides the destruction of animals, buildings and crops, more than 2,000 Oromo
were killed and more than 20,000 fled the area.

In the past, the Ethiopian Government has asked the European Economic Community
and the United Nations for funds to settle ''unoccupied'' areas, such as this
one, with Amhara colonists.

Clearly, to understand the causes of people fleeing the Ethiopian empire one
must consider more than the Ogaden border dispute.  JASON W. CLAY Director of
Research Cultural Survival Inc.  Cambridge, Mass., Oct. 2, 1981

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              992 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 28, 1981, Monday, Late City Final Edition

SOMALIA'S DIFFICULTIES

BYLINE: By Z. Michael Szaz

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 901 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


By signing a treaty of cooperation and friendship, w hich includes secret
clauses, with Ethiopia and Southern Yemen, bothS oviet surrogates in the Horn of
Africa region, the Libyan leader C ol. Muammar el-Qaddafi acquired a new enemy -
Somalia.

A communique by the Somali Government on Aug. 24 accused Libya of numerous
subversive acts and called the agreement an aggressive military pact directed
against the Somali and other moderate governments in the region. Somalia
considers the pact a springboard for the Soviet Union to dominate the Horn and
the Middle East.

Geopolitical implications of the pact should give pause to members and staff of
the House Subcommittee on Africa who focus on the merits of the national
self-determination claims of Somalis in the Ogaden region, which is under
Ethiopian administration, rather than on Soviet-Cuban encroachment in the Horn.

The Somali Government finds itself in a difficult situation. Some 1.3 million
refugees, Somalis and Oromos from the Ogaden, live in 35 special camps and
800,000 refugees live outside the camps with relatives. They escaped the
fighting in their province, where they suffered atrocities and oppression. In
addition, 3,000 new refugees arrive daily from the Ogaden, where guerrilla
fighting against the Ethiopians continues.

The Western Somali Liberation Front still carries out attacks, and the Ethiopian
Army retaliates by burning villages and sometimes poisoning wells. Somali peace
offers, based on negotiations about national self-determination and human rights
of the Somalis of the Ogaden, has found no positive response in Addis Ababa.

The refugees are a staggering burden for the Somali economy, which also has been
damaged by floods in recent months. Before international aid arrived in 1979,
the Government used up its own supplies to avoid mass starvation among the
refugees. To carry the burden, the Government needs substantial international
assistance.  With the aid of the United Nations High Commission for Refugees,
which is helped by large contributions from the United States and other Western
countries, the situation has been somewhat stabilized, but food-dist ribution
and warehousing problems persist and transit camps lack ne cessary facilities.
Medical assistance, sanitary facilities, a nd the drilling of wells remain the
highest priorities. Food distribu tion is no longer a direct Somali
responsibility. The Government si gned an agreement with Africare, a voluntary
agency, andthe Central M ennonite Committee, in addition to the High
Commissioner, and retains only coordinating functions.

Besides the refugee problem, security remains a principal concern to Somalia.
With the Soviet-supported Ethiopian Army still fighting the Western Somali
Liberation Front in the Ogaden, and Cubans ready to quash any coup attempts in
Addis Ababa, a ground invasion is unlikely, although Ethiopians raided Somali
territory several times in the last 18 months. In addition, Ethiopian planes
attacked Somali villages and refugee camps repeatedly this year, causing
numerous deaths and substantial damage.

Politically, the Somali Government is in firm control, although there are
opposition elements abroad supported by Ethiopia and Libya that are trying to
weaken Somali unity. The continuing military buildup in Ethiopia and Southern
Yemen, however, challenges long-term Somali stability. In 1978 and 1979,
Ethiopia received $1.5 billion worth of military equipment from the Soviet
Union, and further deliveries are being made. There are still 17,000 Cubans,

4,000 Russians, and 2,000 East Germans ''protecting'' the regime in Addis Ababa
and ''advising'' the military, state security, and economic ministries.  To this
threat, Libya has been added. In the last two years, it has served as the
spearhead for Soviet infiltration of Africa. Somalia aroused Colonel Qaddafi's
ire by signing an agreement with the United States in August 1980 granting use
of Somali military facilities. There will be Libyan financing available both to
Ethiopian and Somali exiles who want to weaken Somalia.

Despite these dangers, the Somali Government responded to the
Libyan-Ethiopian-Southern Yemen pact by breaking off diplomatic relations with
Libya and charging Libya with subversion and with signing an aggressive military
pact directed against Somalia, and aimed at destabilizing the Red Sea and Indian
Ocean region. Thus, theGovernment took a courageous stand by joining two
moderate Arab regimes, Egypt's and the Sudan's, in denounci ng both the Soviet
surrogates and the mercurial Colonel Qaddafi.

Washington should recognize Somalia's contributions to Western security and
extend to it increased political support and provide more military equipment.
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Z. Michael Szaz directs and edits publications of the American Foreign Policy
Institute, a research organization specializing in international security
problems.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustrations: Cartoon of South America

TYPE: Op-ed

                   Copyright 1981 The New York Times Company


                              993 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 30, 1980, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Index;
International

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 695 words


Zulu leader for South Africa's blacks walks a tightrope 1
Wave of arrests begins in Haiti 3
Big Liverpool demonstration pro- tests unemployment 4
Increase in crime strains re- sources of Ireland's police 5
Around the World 6

Danish port f inds a way to end youth unemp loyment 8
Japanese transport union plans South Korea trade ban 9
Chinese court ends hearings on at- tempt against Mao 10
Philippines reports progress in curbing population growth 11
Senator Percy leaves Moscow, looks to early arms talks 13
Uruguayans vote today in a con- stitutional plebiscite 14
Right-wing offensive reported in Central America 20
Iraq reverts to ''business as usual'' at home 22

Government/Politics
U.S. to resume nationwide effort to resettle Cuban refugees 24
Official sees U.S. refugee prob- lems shifting to Caribbean 25
Ousted Congressmen to get large retirement benefits 31
Reagan 'Kitchen Cabinet' Strengthens Its Influence 36
Independents emerge as most im- portant power bloc in Texas 36
Reagan benefitted greatly from ''independent'' donations 39
Votes in Congress 52
D'Amato plans a ''sensitive'' visit to a Belfast jail 53
Yonkers faces layoffs despite a $1 million budget surplus 59
L.A. prepares 2 lawsuits as coast water battle return to court 63

General
Around the Nation 26
Morman Church plan to evict ten- ants causes controversy 26
Farmers in San Francisco Bay area fight off development 26
An official investigation is begun into a missing freighter 27
Appeals court upsets ruling on teles cope evidence 41
Detectives press hunt for killers of Newark police officer 42

Health/Science
Select panel urges Congress to in- crease aid for child health care 35
Tests may clear up controversy surrounding laetrile 45
Gene research seen leading to synthetic vaccines 74

Industry/Labor
Businesses pressure J.P. Stevens for a good union contract 68

Education/Welfare
Neediest Cases Fund begins its 69th annual appeal 50

Arts/Entertainment
Harry Streep 3d dances 77
Jamaican 78nce troupe performs 78
Japan treasure house thronged 80

Style
With Christmas catalogues, any- thing can be ordered by mail 84

Obituaries
Father Henry J. Browne, activist priest on West Side 44

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              994 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 20, 1980, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

REFUGEE QUOTA IS CUT BY 14,700 FOR NEXT FISCAL YEAR

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 469 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19


The Carter Administration announced a reduction today in the number of refugees
who may legally enter the United States next year, largely because of the recent
heavy inflow of Cuban and Haitian refugees.

Attorney General Benjamin R. Civiletti told the Senate Judiciary Committee that
the new refugee quota would be 217,000, 14,700 fewer than this year. The cost of
the refugee program for the fiscal year 1981, he said, will be $690 million.

A report submitted to the committee by the State Department office for refugee
affairs said that the influx of more than 122,000 Cubans and 6,000 Haitians had
produced an ''extraordinary emergency'' in South Florida, requiring Federal aid
to the state and local authorities.

Mr. Civiletti told the Senate panel that the United States was doing
''everything legally possible to reduce the entries,'' but he predicted that
border violations would continue ''unless we want to become a police state.''

Under questioning from the committee members and its chairman, Senator Edward M.
Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, Mr. Civiletti and Victor H. Palmieri, the
State Department coordinator for refugee affairs, described the efforts to halt
the inflow of illegal entrants by military and judicial means.

The Attorney General said the Coast Guard had seized 1,400 small boats, but
added that the passengers could not be forced to return in most cases because
the vessels were not seaworthy.

He said that about 100 Cubans and Haitians were still arriving in Florida each
day, despite Coast Guard efforts to halt the boats. At the height of the influx
last spring there were 1,000 to 2,000 new arrivals each day.

The Justice Department has brought indictments against 270 persons for bringing
illegal entrants from Cuba and Haiti to the United States, and is preparing 500
other cases for prosecution, Mr.  Civiletti said. The department is also
investigating groups in Florida that have allegedly been organizing the boat
trips for the illegal entrants.

168,000 Indochinese in 1981

Indochinese will make up the largest number of refugees under the quota system;
168,000 will be allowed in the United States in the fiscal year 1981. Mr.
Civiletti said large numbers of Indochinese refugees in such countries as
Thailand threatened the stability of American allies in Southeast Asia.

The breakdown for the coming fiscal year also includes 37,500 from the Soviet
Union and Eastern Europe, 4,500 from the Near East and 3,000 from Africa. The
biggest regional reduction came in Latin America, where the quota recommendation
is 4,000, down from 20,500 this year.

Mr. Civiletti said the reduction ''reflects the massive influx of Cubans to the
United States in contravention of both U.S. law and our guiding principle of
orderly processing of refugee admissions.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              995 of 996 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              August 27, 1980, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

FOR EXPANDED U.S. ASSISTANCE TO ZIMBABWE

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 501 words


To the Editor:

We as Americans should provide a warm welcome for Prime Minister Robert Mugabe
to the United States and rejoice that an independent Zimbabwe, based on majority
rule, is taking its place in the United Nations.

his is one of the great triumphs of our time. Americans can take pride that over
the last few years, the United States has played a role in the pursuit of peace
and justice in Zimbabwe -that America has supported the Zimbabwe people's
aspirations for freedom, joined in the African nation's tireless search for a
just settlement and encouraged Britain's fulfillment of its colonial
responsibility. We take special pride in our nation's persistent commitment to
free and fair elections and in the successful effort to maintain sanctions until
a democratic process was assured.

The United States must now do everything possible to support Zimbabwe and to
help assure the settlement's success. The Zimbabwe Government is clearly
committed to reconciliation and pragmatic compromise in addressing postwar
problems. Substantial resources will be needed if it is to succeed - resources
to resettle refugees, rebuild the war-torn nation, retain white confidence and
meet the black majority's expectations for a better future.

Three years ago, the United States pledged in the Anglo-American Proposals to
provide up to $520 million over five years to support a settlement based on a
democratic constitution and fair elections.  America should now fulfill that
pledge. I recognize that the United States has provided early assistance to
Zimbabwe to repair clinics, rebuild schools and resettle refugees. It is also
true that approximately $50 million in American aid has been requested by the
Carter Administration for the first 18 months of Zimbabwe's independence. Yet
our nation pledged to do far more for an independent Zimbabwe. We can and should
do more.

The U.S. also pledged to seek the support of other donors so that $1.5 billion
in overall aid would be provided in the first five years of independence. This
pledge should be fulfilled as well.

The future of all of southern Africa may well depend on Zimbabwe's success in
the coming months. If there is lasting peace, based on majority rule and
multi-racial cooperation, Namibia and South Africa will be profoundly affected.
The United States now has a unique opportunity to invest in democracy and racial
equality in southern Africa. I urge President Carter and the Congress to expand
substantially American assistance to Zimbabwe now, when aid is desperately
needed.  HASKELL G. WARD New York, Aug. 21, 1980 The writer, a former New York
City deputy mayor, also served as a member of the State Department Policy
Planning staff.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1980 The New York Times Company


                              996 of 996 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright (c) 2007 Georgetown Immigration Law Journal
                       Georgetown Immigration Law Journal

                                  Spring, 2007

                            21 Geo. Immigr. L.J. 431

LENGTH: 20437 words

NOTE: THE NEW FACE OF AMERICA'S REFUGEES: AFRICAN REFUGEE RESETTLEMENT TO THE
UNITED STATES

NAME: HEIDI H. BOAS *

BIO:



   * Heidi H. Boas is a graduate of Boalt Hall School of Law (U.C. Berkeley,
2007) and Stanford University (2002). (c) 2007, Heidi H. Boas. As a 2007 Equal
Justice Works Fellow, Ms. Boas will spend the next two years providing
immigration legal services and outreach about domestic violence to the African
immigrant and refugee community in Washington, D.C. Before law school, Ms. Boas
conducted research in Kenya with refugee women living in Kakuma refugee camp
(near the Sudan border) and in the urban slums of Nairobi. She also worked in
Ghana, where she helped advocate for a new law to protect survivors of domestic
violence. Ms. Boas has also interned with the office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees in Panama and with the Executive Office for
Immigration Review in San Francisco. She would like to thank Kate Jastram,
Lecturer in Refugee Law and Global Migration Issues at Boalt Hall, for her
invaluable mentorship throughout the process of researching and writing this
article.

 TEXT:
 [*432]  I. INTRODUCTION

   Driving around in the outskirts of downtown Atlanta one summer, I am reminded
of the summer I spent in Kenya in 2001, interviewing refugees from Sudan,
Somalia, and other East African countries. To my right, I notice the distinctive
features and gait of a tall Sudanese young man walking along the asphalt in the
Georgia summer heat. A few minutes later, I pull up to an apartment complex and
a Somali woman greets me at her door, draped in the colorful patterned fabrics
of her home country. African features, fabrics, and cultural expressions that
are so familiar to me from my time in Kenya surround me during my visits with
African refugees living in this Atlanta apartment complex, yet the sounds and
sights of modern America remind me  [*433]  that I am indeed still standing in
my American hometown.  n1 Though my location has not changed, the face of
America's refugees certainly has.

   Cities throughout the United States have welcomed increasing numbers of
African refugees over the past twenty-seven years. The United States admitted
few, if any, Africans for resettlement during the initial years of its refugee
resettlement program. In the late 1940s and continuing through the Cold War, the
majority of those offered a safe haven in the United States were Europeans and
Southeast Asians. Congress then passed the Refugee Act of 1980, and since then
African refugee resettlement to the United States has increased exponentially.
n2 The Refugee Act of 1980 opened new doors for refugees from Africa, and after
the end of the Cold War, Africans gradually became the new face of the U.S.
refugee resettlement program.

   The new prioritization of African refugees suggests a significant shift in
U.S. refugee resettlement policy, reflected in particular in the government's
recent decision to resettle the Sudanese "Lost Boys" and Somali Bantu.  n3
During the years leading up to the passage of the 1980 Refugee Act, and
continuing into the 1980s, U.S. foreign policy interests and anti-Communist
ideology were arguably the strongest factors influencing U.S. refugee
resettlement decisions. Then during the 1990s, after the Cold War ended, these
factors began to change. With the recent resettlement of the Sudanese Lost Boys
and Somali Bantu, U.S. refugee resettlement has shifted to what many leaders in
the field view as a more humanitarian selection policy. The Somali Bantu
resettlement in particular reflects a step away from historic U.S. refugee
resettlement norms, as this group is among the most culturally dissimilar groups
selected for resettlement in the history of the U.S. refugee resettlement
program.  n4 A broad and diverse coalition of advocates--including refugee
resettlement agencies, Christian organizations, the Congressional Black Caucus,
and other select members of Congress  n5 --has pushed hard to achieve this
shift. This paper argues that the U.S. refugee resettlement program's current
focus on Africa, which on its surface may seem primarily humanitarian, is in
fact the result of significant historical and political changes, combined with
increasing internal domestic pressure from interest groups and Congressional
allies.

   As this paper will discuss, the United States' relatively large-scale
resettlement  [*434]  of African refugees presents significant challenges and
significant opportunities, from both American and African perspectives. African
refugee resettlement to the United States appears likely to continue in large
numbers over the next several years. This paper offers proposals to improve the
quality of assistance that the United States currently provides to the groups it
chooses to resettle within its borders. In particular, it will recommend that
the U.S. government consider increasing the budget allocated to resettlement
assistance, and engage in more constructive dialogue with refugee resettlement
agencies and other stakeholders in the resettlement process.

   Although much has been written about refugee resettlement in general, there
is little literature that focuses specifically on African refugee resettlement
to the United States. Therefore, to supplement the research for this paper, I
conducted interviews with sixteen individuals involved in the refugee
resettlement process in the United States. These individuals represent some of
the government agencies and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) responsible
for refugee resettlement. I also interviewed a prominent journalist who has
written extensively about the Sudanese Lost Boys, a Somali Bantu man who runs a
community organization for fellow refugees, and a former senior level staff
member with the Congressional Black Caucus.  n6 The interviews were conducted
during October and November 2005, either in person during visits to Washington,
D.C. and Atlanta, Georgia, or by telephone. The information drawn from these
interviews contributed substantially to the analysis and conclusions presented
in this paper.  n7

   Part II of this paper provides historical background information on the U.S.
acceptance and resettlement of African refugees. Part III then introduces the
key actors and influences on past refugee resettlement decisions. Part IV
analyzes the historical and political factors that contributed to the United
States' decision to increase African refugee resettlement. We will then turn in
Part V to exploring the particular factors that influenced the United States'
decision to resettle the Sudanese Lost Boys and Somali Bantu refugees. Part VI
addresses the challenges and opportunities of large-scale African refugee
resettlement, from both African and American perspectives. Finally, Parts VII
and VIII consider the future of African refugee resettlement to the United
States and offer some proposals for improving the United States' current
approach to refugee resettlement assistance.

   II. PRE-1980 RESETTLEMENT OF AFRICAN REFUGEES

   The United States regularly accepts more refugees for resettlement than
[*435]  any other country in the world, and more than all other countries
combined.  n8 As defined by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
(UN-HCR), resettlement "involves the selection and transfer of refugees from a
State in which they have sought protection to a third State which has agreed to
admit them--as refugees--with permanent residence status."  n9 The UN-HCR
emphasizes that a country accepting refugees for resettlement should ensure
protection against refoulement  n10 and provide resettled refugees with access
to rights comparable to those enjoyed by the country's own citizens.  n11
Resettlement should also include the opportunity for refugees to become
naturalized citizens of the resettlement country.  n12 Resettlement host
countries therefore integrate refugees into their communities more fully than is
possible in countries offering only temporary protection.

   The United States refugee resettlement program operates in addition to the
asylum adjudication process, which also assists people fleeing persecution.
According to the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services ("USCIS," formerly
"INS"), "[t]he most important and significant difference between the refugee and
asylum programs is that the refugee applicant is located outside the United
States, and the asylum applicant is already within the United States ... In the
context of the United States Refugee Program, the United States government has
taken on the affirmative mission of seeking out those who are of special
interest to the United States and are in need of sanctuary, and bringing them
into the United States for protection."  n13

   Before 1980, U.S. refugee resettlement was not an organized program or
process in the same way that it is today, but rather was an ad-hoc response to
existing refugee situations. The United States first began resettling refugees
in 1948 after passage of the Displaced Persons Act, which covered post-war
European refugees. Beginning in the 1950s, U.S. resettlement shifted along
foreign policy and ideological lines to focus on resettlement from Communist
countries: "As the Cold War intensified during the 1950s and early 1960s,
ideology became the principal determinant of merit, both positive and  [*436]
negative."  n14 Then in 1975, the U.S. government used resettlement to respond
to a crisis it had helped create: the Vietnam War. Around 100,000 Vietnamese
were admitted to the United States in 1975 and since that date the United States
has accepted over 1.4 million Indochinese refugees.  n15 The effects of the
anti-Communist and post-Vietnam War resettlement efforts are still visible today
in the composition of the United States' population and in a statistical
analysis of U.S. refugee resettlement: roughly 75% of the refugees admitted
since 1975 have come from Indochina and the former Soviet Union.  n16

   The U.S. refugee resettlement program as we know it today was created by the
Refugee Act of 1980.  n17 Before the Act was passed, the United States narrowly
defined "refugees" as persons fleeing a communist-dominated area or the Middle
East.  n18 The Refugee Act of 1980 changed the United States' legal definition
of a refugee so that the term is no longer tied to a particular region or
ideology.  n19 This change was made largely in response to criticism that the
United States' limitation of resettlement to refugees from Communist countries
and the Middle East was discriminatory.  n20 As a result of the Refugee Act and
its new refugee definition, U.S. resettlement doors were essentially opened to
refugees from Africa and other continents for the first time.

   Beginning in 1980, the U.S. resettlement allocation for African refugees
began to increase, rising from 1,500 in 1980 to 22,000 in fiscal year 2007.  n21
Between 1998 and 2004, in particular, the allocation jumped significantly from
7,000 in 1998 to 25,000 in 2004.  n22 Simultaneously, the overall refugee
admissions ceiling has dropped over the past twenty-seven years from a high of
231,700 in 1980 to 70,000 in fiscal year 2007.  n23 Accordingly, the increase in
African refugee resettlement to the United States is even more statistically
significant: over the past twenty-seven years, Africa has moved from the lowest
gross allocation (0.65%) to the highest gross allocation (31.43%) for U.S.
refugee resettlement.  n24

    [*437]  It is particularly notable that African refugees were virtually
absent from the U.S. refugee resettlement program before 1980, given that Africa
has been a significant source of refugees for decades. Africans have constituted
a major proportion of the world's refugee load since well before the passage of
the Refugee Act in 1980. Today, there are approximately 2.7 million African
refugees world-wide, representing 29% of the global population of refugees.  n25
One must wonder what factors influenced the United States to primarily select
refugees from other continents before 1980, and what factors underlie its
decision in recent years to increase African refugee resettlement numbers.

   III. KEY ACTORS AND INFLUENCES ON U.S. RESETTLEMENT POLICY

   In order to better understand the motives underlying U.S. refugee
resettlement decisions, it is critical to understand the basic structural
framework within which these decisions are made. This section will offer an
overview of the key players involved in U.S. refugee resettlement decisions
before turning to a discussion of some of the factors that have historically
influenced these actors' decisions.

   The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) organizes refugee
resettlement worldwide and refers groups annually to the United States and other
receiving countries to be considered for resettlement.  n26 UNHCR generally
recommends individuals or groups of refugees for resettlement when it is no
longer safe or practical for them to remain within their country of first asylum
or return to their home country. UNHCR's recommendations for resettlement are
guided by the 1951 Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees and the 1967
Protocol to the Convention. These documents define a refugee as a person who is
outside of his or her country and is fleeing persecution on account of one of
five grounds: race, religion, political opinion, nationality, or membership in a
particular social group. While the Convention and Protocol specify the criteria
an individual must meet in order to be accorded refugee status, neither require
ratifying States to resettle refugees within their borders.  n27 Accordingly,
there is no international human rights law that specifically governs refugee
resettlement per se, and those countries that accept refugees for resettlement
do so  [*438]  voluntarily.

   Although the United States often looks to UNHCR for recommendations on
refugee resettlement, the President holds the ultimate power to determine how
many and which refugees to admit for resettlement on an annual basis.  n28
Before 1980, the President often used the Attorney General's humanitarian parole
power to grant select groups permission to enter the United States' borders as
refugees.  n29 The Refugee Act of 1980 now requires the President to consult
with Congress before making the annual determination regarding refugee group
designations and admission levels. The Act empowers the President to select
groups for resettlement who are of "special humanitarian concern to the U.S.," a
designation which is notably vague and may be broadly interpreted.  n30 The Act
also establishes a baseline of 50,000 refugee admissions per year and authorizes
an upward revision of the annual admissions cap in the case of an unforeseen
refugee crisis. Once an overall numerical cap has been set, the President then
typically allocates admission numbers by geographical region and releases the
information in the form of a Presidential Determination published in the Federal
Register around the beginning of each fiscal year (October 1).  n31

   Four main factors have traditionally impacted the U.S. government's decision
to accept or deny a particular refugee group for resettlement, and how many
refugees to accept overall: foreign policy objectives, domestic immigration
goals, pressure from interest groups, and humanitarian concerns. Each of these
factors has historically influenced the United States' decisions regarding
refugee admissions to varying degrees, based on the particular historical and
political context of the time.

   Foreign policy objectives were arguably the primary factor guiding U.S.
refugee resettlement decisions during the decades leading up to the end of the
Cold War. Foreign policy concerns have motivated the U.S. government to offer
resettlement to refugee groups in order to compensate for its failure to
intervene earlier in a major conflict (e.g., post-World War II refugees); to
rescue people from regimes the United States viewed as hostile or tyrannical (
e.g., Vietnam); to reward groups or countries that have cooperated with the
United States (e.g., Hmong refugees from Laos); and to embarrass or undermine a
country it disfavors (e.g., the Soviet Union, Cuba, and other Communist
countries).  n32 During the Cold War, the United States went to great lengths to
admit those fleeing Communism, even going so far as to  [*439]  sidestep normal
admissions procedures by using the Attorney General's humanitarian parole power
to grant select groups permission to enter U.S. borders.  n33

   The United States may also select certain refugee groups for resettlement
based on domestic immigration goals. Family reunification is a major focus of
the U.S. resettlement program; indeed, a separate priority status is granted to
the spouses, parents, and unmarried children of refugees and asylees from select
countries who are already in the United States.  n34 The United States may also
be more inclined to extend refugee status to groups that already have a cultural
connection to the United States, either because they speak English or have
similar cultural practices, or because immigrants from the country have already
established a strong presence in the United States.  n35

   Interest groups are a relatively new factor identified as influencing U.S.
refugee resettlement decisions.  n36 This category is broadly defined, and
includes non-governmental organizations, politicians, religious organizations,
and others, from both ends of the political spectrum. Non-governmental
organizations responsible for carrying out refugee resettlement to the United
States are in a particularly strong position to influence resettlement
decisions, and to offer their expertise in the field. These NGOs are involved in
both the pre-screening and camp management of overseas refugees, and in the
reception and resettlement process for newly-arrived refugees in the United
States.  n37 Most of the current refugee resettlement agencies began as
volunteer organizations to help resettle refugees after World-War II, and so
have played a key role in resettling refugees for decades.  n38 NGOs operating
both domestically and abroad are now regularly called upon to testify before
[*440]  Congress regarding the numbers of refugees requiring resettlement, who
should be permitted to enter, and what status and benefits refugees should be
given in the United States.  n39

   Politicians and their constituencies also fall within the rubric of interest
groups that affect refugee resettlement decisions.  n40 For example, Congress
passed the Lautenberg Amendment  n41 in 1988 largely in response to pressure by
particular religious and ethnic constituencies to increase resettlement from
their home countries. This amendment eases refugee status qualification
standards for select groups, mostly in Eastern Europe and Southeast Asia, by
requiring that they show only a "credible basis for concern" about the
possibility of persecution, a lower standard than other refugees are required to
meet.  n42 The Lautenberg amendment provides protection for certain religious
groups within these regions: Jews, Evangelical Christians, and Ukrainian
Catholic and Orthodox religious sects.  n43 One critic charges that the
Lautenberg Amendment sets a precedent that resettlement assistance and funds
will go to groups with the strongest political constituency in the United
States, rather than to those most in danger of persecution.  n44 The amendment
has been continuously reauthorized since its passage and is still in effect
today.  n45 The Lautenberg Amendment is a prime example of how the influence of
interest groups can enter into the refugee resettlement decision process
indirectly through the voice and actions of politicians.

   Finally, in addition to foreign-policy as well as political and domestic
pressures, humanitarian concerns may also influence the United States' decisions
regarding refugee admissions. From a humanitarian perspective, refugee
resettlement serves the function of rescuing and protecting some of the world's
most vulnerable refugees. The goal of the resettlement program is therefore to
select those groups that have endured the most suffering and oppression, who
face the greatest threat of future persecution, for whom resettlement could
alleviate the most danger, or for whom resettlement is the only possible
solution to their plight.  n46 When determining the annual cap on  [*441]
refugee resettlement, the U.S. government may be motivated by a combination of
humanitarian concerns and foreign policy objectives to accept a large number of
refugees in the interest of sharing the world-wide refugee burden.

   IV. UNDERSTANDING THE UNITED STATES' DECISION TO INCREASE AFRICAN REFUGEE
RESETTLEMENT

   This section will outline the factors underlying the increase in African
refugee resettlement to the United States. The four factors explored above have
influenced refugee resettlement decisions to varying degrees ever since the
beginning of resettlement to the United States. Africa has carried one of the
heaviest refugee burdens in the world for decades, with many groups in need of
rescue. The United States, however, has only begun to prioritize African refugee
resettlement relatively recently. Why has this shift only recently occurred, and
why at this particular point in history? This paper argues that the balance of
factors influencing refugee resettlement decisions has shifted in recent years
due to significant political changes combined with the increasing influence of
internal pressures from various interest groups and Congressional allies. As a
result, Africa has moved to the forefront of U.S. refugee resettlement decisions
within the past decade, a fact which on its face appears primarily humanitarian,
but in reality is much more complex.

A. The End of the Cold War

   While the Refugee Act of 1980 established a broader refugee definition that
first opened the possibility of resettlement to Africans, in reality the
effective determination of who was to be resettled to the United States did not
change significantly until the end of the Cold War.  n47 "The United States
continued to view refugee admissions as an extension of its foreign policy even
in the early eighties," stated Mark Hetfield, Senior Vice President for Policy
and Programs at the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society. "It was seen as to our benefit
to resettle refugees from certain countries so we could showcase the
shortcomings of our opponents and the relative benefits of our democracy. The
idea was to resettle people from countries that were our political adversaries."
n48

   The end of the Cold War truly paved the way for increased African refugee
resettlement to the United States in two respects. First, as the Cold War came
to an end in the late 1980s and early 1990s, there was a corresponding decline
in U.S. resettlement of refugees from Southeast Asia and the former Soviet
Union, which had previously comprised roughly 80 to 90 percent of  [*442]  the
U.S. refugee resettlement program.  n49 In 1989, seventy countries, including
the United States, instituted the Comprehensive Plan of Action (CPA) in an
effort to better manage the flow of refugees from Southeast Asia.  n50 The CPA
implemented a formal process of screening Southeast Asians for refugee status
and returning those who did not qualify. Second, around the same time, Africa
began to play a more significant role in U.S. foreign policy with the deployment
of U.S. troops to Somalia in 1992 and Liberia in 2003.  n51 Now that
anti-Communist ideology no longer dominated U.S. refugee resettlement decisions,
there was room--both within the new definition of a refugee enacted in 1980, and
within the overall resettlement allocation figure--to accommodate refugees from
countries other than those in Southeast Asia and the former Soviet Union.

B. The Influence of Non-Governmental Organizations

   By the time the Cold War ended, non-governmental organizations were in a
strong position to act as a lobbying force to influence U.S. refugee
resettlement decisions. The Refugee Act of 1980 created a more structured format
in which NGOs could bring their concerns to the table at an annual Congressional
hearing on refugee admissions. With foreign policy concerns and anti-Communist
ideology no longer the primary factors influencing resettlement decisions, NGOs
had more room to maneuver. NGOs regularly advocate for the State Department's
Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration (PRM) to keep the overall cap on
admissions as high as possible. According to Kelly Gauger, Program Officer for
East Africa in the Office of Refugee Admissions, PRM takes seriously the
recommendations of NGOs regarding the annual refugee ceiling. It is aware that
in the minds of many NGOs, the annual ceiling is always too low.  n52 Once the
admissions ceiling is set, NGOs treat the ceiling as a target, urging the
government to fill all of the admissions slots it allocates for a given year.
n53 Observers have noted that this advocacy appears to significantly influence
PRM's recommendations on the annual refugee ceiling.

   Refugee resettlement agencies have particularly championed the African cause
in recent years. According to Mark Hetfield, "[i]t was an obvious question of
equity: most of the world's refugees are African, and yet they were not being
resettled [to the U.S.]."  n54 Moreover, NGO leaders, human  [*443]  rights
activists, and U.S. government officials have become increasingly aware of the
problem of protracted refugee situations worldwide, particularly within Africa.
According to a recent estimate, "[t]he majority of the more than three million
African refugees have been in exile for over ten years."  n55 African refugee
camps, initially regarded as a temporary solution to emergency refugee flows,
are becoming more permanent than many would like.

   U.S. government officials initially were optimistic that African conflicts
would end, and many looked to countries of first asylum within Africa to handle
the refugee crisis on the continent.  n56 As Bill Frelick, Director of Refugee
Policy at Human Rights Watch, stated:


     There was a prevalent assumption for many years that there was no need
     to resettle out of Africa because African host countries were more
     generous and kept their borders open; their borders were more porous,
     and kinship ties often extended beyond the colonially created borders,
     so resettlement wasn't needed as a durable solution as it was in other
     places.  n57


Over time, however, it became apparent that conditions in African countries of
first asylum were deteriorating.

   The hospitality of African host countries began to decline towards the end of
the Cold War.  n58 African host countries were "warehousing" refugees in
dangerous camps, often located in isolated and insecure border areas. In some
cases, refugees were not able to return home after more than a decade.  n59 Some
countries, such as Kenya in the early 1990s, began to talk of moving refugee
camps to the countries from which the refugees had initially fled.  n60 The need
for resettling African refugees to countries outside the continent became
increasingly apparent. In addition, since refugee resettlement agencies had
already demonstrated the capacity to resettle over 230,000 refugees to the
United States during the Cold War years, these agencies felt they could easily
increase African numbers since there was a significantly lighter caseload now
coming out of the Soviet Union and Southeast Asia.  n61 As  [*444]  momentum
grew around the idea of increasing African refugee resettlement to the United
States, NGOs began to place increased pressure on Congress in order to obtain
results.

C. <>Leadership by the Congressional Black Caucus<>

   In order to promote increased African refugee resettlement, a coalition of
refugee resettlement organizations in Washington, D.C., known as the InterAction
Commission on Migration and Refugee Affairs (CMRA), took select Congressional
staff members on three separate trips to Africa during the late 1990s.  n62
Staff members working with the Congressional Black Caucus were among those
invited to take a first hand look at the refugee situation on the ground in
Africa.  n63 Democratic members of the Congressional Black Caucus held
leadership roles at the time within both the House Judiciary and International
Relations Committees, two of the most influential committees on refugee
resettlement issues. The Judiciary Committee has specific jurisdiction to
consult with the Secretary of State and President about overall refugee
resettlement numbers and refugee group designations, and the International
Relations Committee authorizes the amount of funds UNHCR receives from the
United States.  n64 With Congressional Black Caucus members as leaders on both
these Committees during the mid-1990s, the Caucus was ideally positioned to help
refugee advocates push for their cause.  n65

   Each of CMRA's trips lasted from seven days to two weeks and accommodated
twelve to fifteen people, including NGO representatives and a bipartisan mix of
Congressional staff members. NGOs sponsored the travel of some Congressional
staffers, while those on the Judiciary and International Relations Committees
were sponsored by Committee funds.  n66 In 1996, the first delegation traveled
to refugee camps in Kenya, and then examined refugee issues in Ethiopia,
Somalia, and along the Burundi-Tanzania border. The following year, a second
delegation traveled to West African refugee camps in Guinea, Liberia, and Cote
d'Ivoire. In 1998, a third delegation met with Sudanese refugees in Egypt before
continuing on to Russia, Azerbaijan, Kosovo, and Bosnia.  n67

   The trips that CMRA organized helped bring Congressional Black Caucus  [*445]
members on board to support increased African refugee resettlement to the United
States. The cause seemed natural to many members of the Caucus and its staff,
who felt a sense of ancestral solidarity with African refugees.  n68 Stephanie
Peters, who served as Minority Counsel to the House Judiciary Committee  n69
between 1995 and 1999 and participated in each of the three trips CMRA
organized, explained the connection she and other Black Caucus members felt
toward the issue of African resettlement:


     We saw it as a core issue of who's in the room and who's at the table.
     If you didn't have someone of African descent at the table, then who
     got resettled in this country was a reflection of the UNHCR staff at
     that particular camp, who were typically Europeans. Our point was, why
     was it easier for a UNHCR protection officer to determine that a
     European refugee rather than an African refugee was eligible for
     resettlement to the United States?  n70


Peters and other delegation members returned from each of CMRA's trips after
Congress' August recess, just in time to take action before the President's
annual refugee allocation determination at the beginning of the fiscal year on
October 1. As Minority Counsel, Peters worked with the leadership of the Caucus
to draft a letter to Congress on the issue of African refugee resettlement to
the United States. In 1998, following CMRA's third trip to Africa, the number of
resettlement spots allocated to African refugees jumped significantly, from
7,000 in 1998 to 12,000 in 1999, suggesting that the Caucus was successful in
its advocacy.  n71 Indeed, several individuals interviewed for this paper
identified the Congressional Black Caucus as one of the most influential groups
advocating over the past decade for increased African refugee resettlement to
the United States.  n72

D. The Search for Large, Self-Contained Refugee Groups

   At the same time that the Congressional Black Caucus and refugee resettlement
NGOs were calling for an increase in African resettlement, UNHCR and the U.S.
State Department were seeking to fill the void in the refugee program left by
the end of the Cold War. As the number of refugees from Southeast Asia and the
Soviet Union decreased, the State Department  [*446]  was hard pressed to fill
the refugee slots it had allocated: "There was always a worry about the [refugee
] pipeline--finding groups to resettle became the clarion call in the 1990s."
n73

   Filling the allocated refugee slots was more difficult than one might imagine
because the United States selects refugees according to a three-tiered priority
system for refugee resettlement established by the Refugee Act of 1980. Priority
level one (P-1) status refugees are those most in need of resettlement who have
been referred to the U.S. government by the UNHCR or a U.S. Embassy.  n74 This
category typically includes torture victims, refugees at risk of refoulement,
former political prisoners, women at risk, and those in need of urgent medical
care.  n75 Priority level two (P-2) status is accorded to specific groups within
certain nationalities who are of "special humanitarian concern" to the U.S, as
determined by the President, Congress, and PRM. Members of a group of "special
humanitarian concern" are presumed to possess the key criteria for refugee
status--"a well-founded fear of persecution" on account of one of the five
grounds enumerated in the UN Refugee Convention.  n76 The majority of refugees
admitted to the United States since the Refugee Act of 1980 have been admitted
under P-2 status as members of a group of special humanitarian concern to the
U.S. government.  n77 Finally, priority level three (P-3) status is family-based
and limited to certain nationalities.  n78 Immediate family members of refugees
from select countries who are already residing in the United States are eligible
for resettlement under this category.

   For practical reasons, the U.S. has traditionally focused on processing P-2
status refugee groups. P-1 referrals are particularly labor intensive, each
requiring extensive documentation, and P-3 status is so narrowly defined by
nationality and family relationship that few refugees qualify in a given year.
Accordingly, P-2 group processing procedures are considered much easier and more
efficient than making P-1 and P-3 referrals for many individual refugees.  n79

   During the mid-1990s, the State Department began to focus on finding new
large, self-contained groups of individuals with persecution claims for P-2
referral.  n80 This was due largely to the change in refugee flows after the end
of the Cold War. Many refugees from Southeast Asia and the former Soviet Union
had been admitted to the United States before this three-tiered  [*447]
priority system was put in place, and later were admitted as P-2 groups of
"special humanitarian concern."  n81 As these large P-2 groups began to vanish,
the United States found that filling the remaining allocated refugee slots with
P-1 or P-3 referrals was impractical. In addition to the practical difficulties
of completing P-1 referrals, there was no political will at the time to increase
the manpower necessary to make more individual P-1 referrals.  n82 Filling the
allocated slots with P-3 referrals also seemed difficult because of the
category's narrow scope.

   At the same time, NGO representatives and members of the Congressional Black
Caucus were applying constant pressure on Congress and the President to increase
African refugee resettlement. The United States was presented with several
groups in Africa that fit the P-2 referral criteria, including the Sudanese Lost
Boys and the Somali Bantu. Since these and other African groups fit the bill,
the United States began to significantly increase its refugee resettlement
allocation for Africans beginning in the mid-1990s.

E. Conclusions

   Many leaders in the field, including representatives of governmental agencies
and NGOs involved in the resettlement process, believe that in recent years
humanitarian concerns have emerged as a more important principle of refugee
resettlement decisions, while foreign policy motives have faded into the
background. The United States' decision to select the Somali Bantu and Sudanese
Lost Boys for resettlement is pointed to by many as an indication of a more
humanitarian approach. Kelly Gauger of PRM stated that resettlement of these
groups "is reflective of the fact that the program has become a true rescue
program, not based on foreign policy or finding people who will assimilate
well."  n83 Bill Frelick, a long-time critic of the U.S. refugee resettlement
program, also thinks that a significant shift toward a more humanitarian
approach to resettlement has finally taken place:


     The United States was willing to take the Lost Boys, who were not as
     skilled or literate or had the abilities or capacities of some of the
     other groups that could have been chosen. This shows, I think, that
     there was something genuinely humanitarian that underpinned the
     decision to move in the direction of identifying these new groups.
     n84

   During interviews with representatives of government agencies and
nongovernmental organizations involved in the United States' refugee
resettlement  [*448]  process, a general consensus emerged that the U.S.
government's decision to select the Somali Bantu and Sudanese Lost Boys for
resettlement reflects a more humanitarian approach to resettlement in
significant contrast to past trends.

   The preceding discussion illustrates, however, that it was not humanitarian
concern alone, but rather a complex mix of factors that motivated the United
States' decision to increase African refugee resettlement to the United States.
The Refugee Act of 1980 created a more formal structure for the U.S. refugee
resettlement program that opened more space for dialogue on resettlement. The
end of the Cold War permitted a shift away from the overpowering influence of
foreign policy objectives on refugee resettlement decisions. These two changes
made room for new factors to begin to mold resettlement decisions. Interest
groups and their Congressional allies rose to the occasion and began vocally
advocating for African refugees, a population that had long been neglected in
U.S. resettlement history. All of these factors culminated in what many view as
a more humanitarian approach to refugee resettlement, as opposed to the
geopolitical approach that had previously dominated U.S. refugee resettlement
policy. Statistics show that African refugees have benefited significantly from
the political changes that have occurred over the past twenty-seven years, as
their allocated resettlement number has risen to more than fourteen times the
initial designated level in 1980.  n85

   This discussion is not intended to minimize the genuine humanitarian need of
the many refugee groups the United States resettled before African refugees
became a primary focus of the resettlement program. By definition, every refugee
in the world has suffered and is cause for humanitarian concern. For this
reason, it is often difficult for resettlement host countries to choose among
the millions in need, and indeed there is no perfect formula for doing so. Up
until the end of the Cold War, the four major influences on U.S. refugee
resettlement identified in Section III coalesced in select refugee groups from
Southeast Asia and the Soviet Union, making these groups the most obvious
choices for U.S. resettlement. With time and political change, however, it has
become more challenging to point to individual refugee groups that clearly
represent the combined interests of an increasingly diverse American community
concerned with refugee resettlement. The United States now appears to be
prioritizing those refugee groups that have the most vocal and influential
advocates among interest groups and within Congress. The resettlement of two of
these groups, and the interplay of the factors involved in their selection, is
explored below.

    [*449]  V. RESETTLEMENT OF THE SOMALI BANTU AND SUDANESE LOST BOYS

   The exponential growth in African refugee resettlement has not gone unnoticed
within the United States. More and more African restaurants are popping up in
American cities near the enclaves of Asian restaurants established by other
refugees and immigrants in previous decades. African refugees now work alongside
other immigrant and American co-workers in factories, flower nurseries, grocery
stores, restaurants, and other businesses.  n86 Some have started
community-based organizations to assist other African refugees, or started their
own NGOs to provide aid to those still living in Africa.  n87 The American media
has followed the arrival and progress of African refugees with interest in
recent years, turning the spotlight on two groups in particular, the Sudanese
Lost Boys and the Somali Bantu.

   The average American, if asked why the Lost Boys and the Somali Bantu were
brought to the United States, would likely assume that their resettlement was
primarily a humanitarian decision on the part of the United States. The American
media has certainly focused on highlighting the dramatic and sympathetic stories
of both of these groups. The Sudanese youth popularly referred to as the Lost
Boys were displaced during the war in Sudan as they fled attacks on their
families and villages or fled rebel armies trying to force them into combat.
n88 The boys fled their families and homes on foot and escaped together to
refugee camps first in Ethiopia, and then in Kenya, with many dying along the
way due to disease, exhaustion, attacks by wild animals, and heavy rains.  n89
Those who survived the epic journey spent the next several years of their
childhood in Kakuma refugee camp in arid northwestern Kenya.

   The Somali Bantu are a minority group who survived a legacy of slavery and
continual marginalization and exclusion from mainstream society in Somalia. Many
Somali Bantu were robbed, raped, and murdered during  [*450]  Somalia's civil
war in the early 1990s.  n90 Their history of persecution, however, dates back
to the early nineteenth century.  n91 After Somalia's independence from Italy
and Britain in 1960, Somali authorities adopted a policy designed to prevent the
Somali Bantu's social, political, and economic development.  n92 The Somali
Bantu were largely excluded from formal education, and many became landless as
government and political elites displaced them from their farms.  n93 Then in
October 1992, after their villages were attacked by dominant clan Somali, the
Somali Bantu began to flee southern Somalia to refugee camps in northern Kenya.
n94 They lived for over ten years primarily in Dadaab, an arid, isolated, and
dangerous refugee camp in Kenya, before being resettled to the United States.
n95 Even in the camp, the Somali Bantu reported being persecuted by their
neighbors and attacked at a rate that "was disproportionate to their population
in the wider camp community."  n96

   The factors motivating the resettlement of these two groups demonstrate the
new dynamics underlying the U.S. refugee resettlement program, and also
introduce certain influential factors unique to these groups. Understanding the
reasoning behind the U.S. government's decision to select these two groups for
resettlement may help refugee advocates better predict which groups may be
targeted for resettlement in the future, and how best to influence the
decision-making process.

A. Special Interest Groups and the Sudanese Lost Boys

   Christian organizations in particular played a pivotal role in advocating for
the Sudanese Lost Boys' resettlement to the United States. "In my experience,
Christian groups have been instrumental in focusing U.S. government attention on
Sudan," stated Kelly Gauger of PRM.  n97 Indeed, a whole range of Christian
organizations and faith-based human rights advocates, including evangelical
Christians, have adopted the Sudanese as their cause due to widespread
persecution of Christians in the Sudan.  n98

   Initially, many evangelical Christian groups were interested in encouraging
humanitarian aid to Sudanese refugees or negotiating a peace agreement within
the country, rather than encouraging refugee resettlement to the United States.
n99 The Midland Ministerial Alliance, located in the hometown of U.S. President
George W. Bush, and Samaritan's Purse, run by the son of  [*451]  the well-known
evangelical Christian Billy Graham, are two Christian organizations that have
been particularly active in advocating for peace in the Sudan.  n100 While these
and other evangelical organizations have been most vocal in calling for
solutions within Sudan, their strong voices on the issue have also indirectly
influenced refugee advocacy by Christian-affiliated resettlement organizations
in the United States and by evangelical Christian government officials.
Influential Christian politicians in Congress, such as Republican Senator Sam
Brownback of Kansas, saw Sudanese refugees as a particularly worthy group for
resettlement.  n101 Brownback pushed alongside members of the Congressional
Black Caucus to encourage the United States to accept the Sudanese Lost Boys.

   In addition to evangelical Christians, some of the more traditional players
in resettlement decision-making have also taken a special interest in Sudanese
refugees. Religiously affiliated refugee resettlement agencies--such as World
Vision, the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, Lutheran Immigration and
Refugee Services, and the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society--helped influence the
United States' decision to accept the Sudanese Lost Boys for resettlement.  n102
At the same time, secular resettlement agencies--such as the Ethiopian Community
Development Council and the International Rescue Committee--were also pushing
for resettlement of those who fled Sudan.  n103

   Bill Frelick of Human Rights Watch commented on the unusual confluence of
advocates that came together on the issue of Sudanese refugee resettlement:



     There was a very interesting convergence of Left-Right bedfellows
     regarding refugees in Sudan that you rarely see in other parts of
     political Washington, D.C. The Congressional Black Caucus, which is
     overwhelmingly Democratic and liberal, and the Christian Evangelical
     Right, which is overwhelmingly White Republican, both took a very
     strong interest in Sudanese refugees.  n104


As interest groups from both ends of the political spectrum joined their voices
to call for increasing resettlement of Sudanese refugees, the U.S. government
listened. The United States targeted the Lost Boys for resettlement to the
United States following a referral in 1999 by UNHCR and the  [*452]  U.S. State
Department.  n105

   A Presidential report on proposed refugee admissions issued in July 2000
further reflects the United States' particular concern with the persecution of
Christians in Sudan:


     In the North, where many of the four million internally displaced
     Sudanese (mostly Southerners) live, harassment and persecution of
     Christians, including arrests of clergy on apparently trumped-up
     charges, and refusal to issue building permits for churches and
     church-related buildings is the rule rather than the exception ... The
     U.S. admissions program has in recent years increased its focus in
     Egypt, Ethiopia, and Kenya on these Sudanese victims of religious
     discrimination and persecution.  n106


The excerpt above falls under the heading "Religious Freedom in Africa," which
is notably the only topical subheading in the report's discussion of refugee
flows within Africa, even though persecution on other grounds is widespread as
well.  n107 The editorial choice to single out religious persecution within
Africa in this Presidential report, combined with the vocal advocacy of numerous
Christian organizations and politicians, suggests that religious interests
strongly influenced the U.S. government's decision to resettle the Lost Boys.

   The Lost Boys also appealed to refugee advocates and decision-makers because
they fit the refugee profile that was at the center of U.S. interests at the
time. The Lost Boys were a prime example of a protracted refugee situation, as
they spent their entire adolescence living in a refugee camp with no durable
solutions available.  n108 They were also an easily identifiable, discrete group
that could be processed and resettled relatively quickly. The Lost Boys made a
strong impression on representatives from the State Department who traveled to
Kakuma refugee camp in the late 1990s. These PRM representatives helped drive
the final determination to designate the boys as a P-2 group for resettlement.
n109 As Mark Bixler, author of <>The Lost Boys of Sudan: An American Story of
the Refugee Experience,<> <><>explained: "There were a variety of factors
that[,]... taken together, led to an increase in Sudanese Lost Boy resettlement.
They wouldn't have meant much if they had happened separately, but they all came
together at the right time."  n110 As a  [*453]  result of this confluence of
events, roughly 3,800 Lost Boys have been resettled to the United States since
1999.  n111

B. Humanitarian Resettlement and the Somali Bantu

   The history of the Somali Bantu resettlement seems to indicate that there
indeed may have been a strong humanitarian motive behind the United States'
selection of this group. Resettling the Somali Bantu was neither politically
advantageous nor practical from the standpoint of domestic immigration policy.
These refugees were at considerable risk within Africa, however, and their
resettlement to the United States seems a logical choice when viewed in light of
the resettlement program's objectives at the time. Some conclude that the Somali
Bantu resettlement is proof that the U.S. government has become increasingly
willing to use refugee law as a means of addressing humanitarian concerns.

   In contrast to the Sudanese Lost Boys' resettlement, religious groups and
religiously-affiliated politicians do not appear to have played a large role in
the United States' decision to resettle the Somali Bantu. Because the Somali
Bantu are mostly Muslim, their persecution did not elicit the same popular
uprising of support from Christian organizations in the United States that
accompanied news of persecution in the Sudan. There are notably no Muslim
organizations among the NGOs responsible for refugee resettlement in the United
States.  n112 Although some Muslim organizations have tried on occasion to enter
the U.S. refugee resettlement arena, they have faced difficulty due to a lack of
national networking.  n113 As a result, religious organizations and politicians
made few, if any, efforts to advocate for resettlement of the Somali Bantu to
the United States.

   Prior to their resettlement, it was widely predicted that the Somali Bantu
would have great difficulty in adjusting to life in the United States. "With the
low literacy and English levels, large families, no U.S. support system and an
almost total lack of exposure to technology and urban life, Somali Bantus will
struggle to gain self sufficiency and a foothold in U.S. Society," one author
predicted in Refugee Reports, a publication of Immigration and Refugee Services
of America.  n114 The Somali Bantu are among the most culturally dissimilar
refugee groups that have been selected for integration into American culture.
n115 They have a high rate of illiteracy due to their exclusion from formalized
education, tend to form polygamous marriages,  [*454]  are mostly Muslim, and
their language--Maay Maay--has only recently been codified.  n116 Although some
gained limited exposure to urban ways of life while living in refugee camps,
most Somali Bantu refugees were unaccustomed to using electricity, flush
toilets, telephones, and kitchen and laundry appliances before their
resettlement to the United States.  n117

   The Somali Bantu did, however, fit the profile of the African refugee groups
the United States was targeting. They were another protracted refugee situation
with no apparent durable solution. The Somali Bantu had been living in refugee
camps in Kenya for over a decade and continued to suffer persecution, even in
exile, due to the persistence of the oppressive clan structures in the camps:



     The Somali Bantu ... [were] a group that in the clan culture of
     Somalia were the equivalent of the Untouchables in India, people that
     basically didn't even fall within that clan structure because they
     weren't even seen as having their origins in Somalia in the first
     place; and so they were essentially the Untouchables in Dadaab as
     well.  n118


Repatriation was not an option for this persecuted clan, for no one would
protect them in Somalia, and they faced unending persecution in their countries
of first asylum. For those concerned about protracted refugee situations in
Africa, the Somali Bantu were an obvious group in need of assistance.

   Furthermore, the Somali Bantu were an ideal group for P-2 resettlement status
because they were physically identifiable and because their persecution claims
were, in some sense, already familiar to the U.S. government. The Somali Bantu
share distinct physical features which make them easily identifiable, including
a kinkier hair texture than dominant-clan Somali and a distinctly-shaped nose.
n119 In addition, two other Somali ethnic minority groups had already been
successfully resettled to the United States under P-2 status, laying a firm
foundation for the Somali Bantu resettlement. The Somali Benadir, who were
resettled to the United States in 1995, helped pave the way for the Somali
Bantu.  n120 Because members of the Benadir ethnic minority had similar
persecution claims, the U.S. State Department was able to resettle the Benadir
relatively efficiently.  n121 Although the State Department still conducted
individual refugee status determination interviews for each refugee, the
interviews could be less-detailed since the individuals'  [*455]  stories were
similar.  n122 The Somali Barawa were the next ethnic-minority African group
resettled to the United States under P-2 status in 1996.  n123 Like these two
groups, the Somali Bantu were an ethnic minority that didn't have a majority
clan to protect them.  n124 By the time the Somali Bantu were recommended by the
UNHCR in 1999, they seemed like a straightforward choice for P-2 resettlement to
the United States.

   Given the extreme difficulty the Somali Bantu were predicted to have in
adapting to American life, it seems particularly significant that the U.S.
government selected them for resettlement. Several of the NGO and government
leaders interviewed for this paper pointed in particular to the Somali Bantu
resettlement as proof of the increasingly humanitarian focus of the United
States refugee program.  n125 As Mark Hetfield remarked, the decision to
resettle the Bantu "really speaks volumes about how flexible the refugee program
is and can be in terms of responding to refugees no matter what their needs
are."  n126 Notably, this flexibility of the U.S. refugee resettlement program
appears to be a recent development made possible by the end of the Cold War. It
remains unclear whether refugee resettlement selection in the future will remain
as flexible as it is today.

   VI. THE CHALLENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES OF LARGE-SCALE AFRICAN REFUGEE
RESETTLEMENT

   Thus far, this paper has described in detail the complex dynamics
underpinning the United States' increased focus on African refugee resettlement,
in particular on the Somali Bantu and Sudanese Lost Boy resettlements. This
discussion raises new questions: what is the significance of continuing to
resettle African refugees to the United States? What are the challenges and
opportunities presented by this large-scale resettlement, both for the United
States and for Africa? The next portion of this paper will offer some possible
answers to these questions.  n127

A. Impact on Global Refugee Flows

   One of the primary arguments that scholars and refugee advocates raise for
resettling large numbers of refugees to the United States is the need to spread
the worldwide burden of refugees among those countries best able to assist them.
This concept of burden-sharing is particularly applicable in the African  [*456]
context. Today, most refugee flows occur in Africa and southern Asia, and the
brunt of these refugee burdens is primarily borne by neighboring states.  n128
Coincidentally, these states are often least-equipped to handle the refugee
flow, both economically and politically. The imbalance that results is striking:



     Some of those least capable of bearing these burdens have in fact
     carried a disproportionately large share of them. This is most
     strikingly true of some African states that often serve as countries
     of first asylum for many of the most wretched refugees. Conversely,
     some of the states that are most capable of incurring refugee burdens
     have stood on the sidelines watching.  n129


Despite the very apparent need for increased burden-sharing, "no strong norm of
refugee burden-sharing currently exists in international law or practice."  n130
Indeed, "[t]he vast majority of countries ... make few or no resettlement offers
even though some of them have ample resources for doing so."  n131 As one expert
notes, "effective burden-sharing requires efforts to reduce the burdens on all
countries and spread them over time."  n132

   Many countries may be reluctant to share the worldwide refugee burden out of
a fear that doing so creates a "pull factor" that will attract an increasing
flow of refugees.  n133 Once word of the resettlement of certain populations
gets out, members of those populations who may have otherwise chosen to stay in
their countries of origin may flee to countries of first asylum in the hope of
eventually being resettled to desirable host countries. This phenomenon occurred
during the Somali Bantu resettlement, when some Somali Bantu who had initially
resettled on their own in Tanzania chose to return to Kakuma refugee camp in
Kenya in the hope of being selected for resettlement to the United States.  n134
Bill Frelick of Human Rights Watch commented on the particular problems that the
resettlement pull factor can create:


     Resettlement can be a tricky enterprise in terms of the dynamics in
     refugee camps and refugee situations. Refugee resettlement can cause a
     lot of damage if it's done poorly. When there are a limited number of
     spots available and you start advertising that you're beginning a
     refugee resettlement program, it can create a stampede, precipitate
     some really  [*457]  ugly, overheated situations, and produce almost
     hysterical kinds of reactions where people are committing fraud and
     doing things they wouldn't ordinarily do. Out of desperation, they
     have unrealistic expectations and get caught up in the contradiction
     between false hopes and bitter realities. Resettlement can be quite
     counter-productive if it's not done properly.  n135


Frelick's comment illustrates the significant potential drawbacks of large-scale
resettlement, both for the resettlement-receiving country and for the host
country of first asylum.

   Despite the risk of a pull factor, the United States has historically been
willing to admit more refugees than all other resettling countries combined,
likely in part because of the international goodwill that large-scale
resettlement creates for the United States. Resettlement offers refugees
economic and educational opportunities that can help them rebuild their home
countries. By accepting African refugees for resettlement, the United States
also indirectly channels funds and education into Africa. Many African refugees
resettled to the United States provide significant financial support to their
family members and friends in Africa by sending part of their earnings home.
n136 Thus, the employment of one refugee in the United States often has a
multiplying effect that financially benefits not only that individual, but a
network of other refugees abroad who receive his or her remittances.

B. Effects of Resettlement on African Refugees, Countries of Origin, and the
United States

   The education that refugees receive in the United States can also eventually
benefit their home countries. The Sudanese Lost Boys resettled to the United
States were particularly enthusiastic about the opportunity to receive an
education they would likely have been unable to access in Sudan.  n137 Some of
those who have received college degrees in the United States have used their
education to start non-profit organizations to aid Sudan.  n138 One Lost Boy
resettled to New York, for example, launched a non-profit organization in 2005
called Water for Sudan.  n139 In addition, the less formal social and political
education that resettled refugees receive by virtue of living in the United
States may inspire them to incorporate similar values and political and social
practices into their home countries, if they choose to return home  [*458]  in
the future. A recent newspaper article reports that "[T]he Lost Boys have now
become vital participants in the reconstruction of Sudan. In addition to
organizing relief missions and fundraising campaigns, the Lost Boys have become
vocal advocates for peace in their homeland."  n140 Resettlement therefore acts
as an indirect means of spreading democracy, financial support, and education to
formerly war-torn countries.

   While resettlement can be beneficial to both refugees and their receiving
host countries, the process is also costly for both parties. In order to be
resettled, a refugee has to be uprooted yet again and moved from the country of
first asylum to the resettling third country, which often has a very different
language, culture, and way of life than the refugee is accustomed to. This
second uprooting and readjustment can have emotional, mental, and physical costs
for the refugee.  n141 The host country must then either pay to assist the
refugee upon his or her arrival, or must bear the burden if the refugee fails to
assimilate.  n142 According to a 2003 analysis by the Center for Immigration
Studies, over five billion dollars per year are spent on Temporary Assistance to
Needy Families (TANF), food stamps, Supplemental Security Income (SSI), and
Medicaid for refugees in the United States.  n143

   Although many countries cite economic concerns as justification for not
offering permanent refugee resettlement, these concerns appear to be largely
unfounded, particularly in countries like the United States that already have
relatively strong and stable economies. Studies show that despite the initial
costs, refugees "tend to lift regional economies over time by starting their own
businesses, purchasing homes, and becoming consumers."  n144 Mark Hetfield
describes refugee resettlement as "an investment that generally pays off'
because the United States refugee resettlement program is a relatively
inexpensive system where the emphasis is on early employment and self-support,
rather than providing years of aid to refugees.  n145

C. Social Impact on Resettled Refugees and Affected Communities in the United
States

   Even while the refugee resettlement "investment" may usually pay off for both
parties in the long run, the short term costs can be significant on the personal
and social level. Some refugees face severe culture shock upon resettlement to
the United States, and American citizens may also experience  [*459]  severe
culture shock in adjusting to their presence.  n146 The cultural clashes that
the Sudanese Lost Boys and their American host communities experienced in
adapting to each other after the boys' initial arrival has been well-documented
in the award-winning documentary film, Lost Boys of Sudan.  n147 The decision to
resettle the Somali Bantu raised strong concerns regarding cultural clashes.
Vocal protest against the Somali Bantu's arrival erupted in the cities of
Holyoke, Massachusetts and Cayce, South Carolina prior to their resettlement.
n148 Some suggest that the Somali Bantu would arguably have been better off if
they had been resettled in a neighboring country more similar to their own.
n149

   Those opposed to large-scale African resettlement to the United States are
not necessarily xenophobic, but rather may have the long-term interests of the
refugee-producing country in mind. Opponents of increased resettlement often
cite the drawback of potential "brain drain" from developing or war-torn
countries. Indeed, in cases like Cuba and Vietnam, the United States imported
through its resettlement program many of the citizens most likely to create
positive change in those countries.  n150 This issue raises a valid concern in
relation to the Sudanese Lost Boys as well, since they are members of the
generation most likely to be able to assist in rebuilding Sudan.

   The potential loss of leadership capabilities that occurs through
resettlement need not be permanent, however. Refugees can later choose to return
to their countries of origin and help rebuild them, using the knowledge and
experience they gained in the United States. Initially, there were high hopes
among the Lost Boys themselves and other Kakuma camp residents that U.S.
resettlement would empower these young men with the tools necessary to serve as
future leaders of their country.  n151 Prior to the Lost Boys' departure,
Sudanese elders in the camp urged the youth to focus on obtaining an education
in the United States, and later return to help facilitate peace in their
homeland. The Lost Boys are just now making their initial visits back to Sudan
since a fragile peace has been restored.  n152 The potential benefits of this
reverse migration are yet to be fully discovered, although initial reports are
promising.  n153

   With African refugees now being resettled to the United States in larger
[*460]  numbers, it is valuable to consider the potential challenges and
opportunities of this increase, both from a domestic and international
perspective. The future of the African resettlement program in the United States
will depend largely on the relative weight U.S. government authorities place on
these various factors, and how these factors balance out in light of political
and humanitarian interests.

   VII. THE FUTURE OF AFRICAN REFUGEE RESETTLEMENT TO THE UNITED STATES

   Many of those in the refugee resettlement field seem to accept the challenges
and opportunities of refugee resettlement as a given, and continue to regard
resettlement as a positive solution for particularly vulnerable refugees. With
regard to African refugee resettlement to America in particular, most
individuals interviewed for this paper would not advocate for either a
categorical increase or decrease in African numbers. Rather, they stressed that
the U.S. refugee resettlement program must remain flexible enough to turn its
attention to wherever the world's greatest need may lie at any given time.

   Bill Frelick of Human Rights Watch captured the sentiment of several of those
interviewed on the subject:


     I wouldn't advocate for any continent, nationality, whatever <>per<> <
     >se.<> I am a globalist, and I think ideally you want to pick the most
     vulnerable people for whom resettlement makes the most sense, and
     where that might do the most to leverage first asylum ... on a
     case-by-case basis.  n154


Sandra Mullins, Executive Director of Refugee Resettlement and Immigration
Services of Atlanta, echoed this sentiment: "The U.S. will always make decisions
based on its own interest, but if we continue to look at where the humanitarian
need is, it has to continue to be open to where the worst situation in the world
is."  n155 Assuming that resettlement is the best durable solution for at least
some refugees, then as long as African refugees remain among the most vulnerable
in the world, they should continue to be resettled to the United States.

   The few individuals interviewed who felt the African resettlement allocation
should be raised above its current level were concerned about the protracted
refugee situations within Africa.  n156 They acknowledge, however, that refugees
in protracted situations pose significant logistical processing challenges. For
example, some "long-stayers," who have been living in  [*461]  camps for a
decade or more, are so far removed from the place and time of their persecution
that they may no longer be able to articulate a valid refugee claim during State
Department resettlement interviews.  n157 Despite these challenges, recent
trends suggest the United States will continue to address protracted refugee
situations in Africa, as long as it is able to find other large, self-contained
groups like the Somali Bantu and Sudanese Lost Boys to resettle.

   Still, some argue against continued large-scale resettlement of African
refugees to the United States in spite of the heavy burden Africa bears. They
reason that money would be better spent on intraregional resettlement of African
refugees within the continent itself. If the United States and UNHCR invested
more resources and energy in resettling African refugees locally, the aid could
potentially help boost the economies of African host countries. Moreover,
intraregional resettlement often seems most reasonable from a cultural and
linguistic standpoint. In the context of the Somali Bantu resettlement, for
example, Mozambique and Tanzania, whose people have historic and cultural ties
to the Somali Bantu, were initially willing to resettle the group.  n158 These
countries later backed out, however, due to a lack of resources and fear of
political instability.  n159 One critic argues that if UNHCR had offered these
countries more financial, logistical and political support, they would have been
willing to carry through with the resettlement.  n160

   Yet most individuals interviewed for this paper assert that intraregional
resettlement within Africa is impractical. Many African countries are
financially unable to offer permanent resettlement, are struggling with civil
war, or fear refugee resettlement will contribute to political instability
within their borders.  n161 African nations have therefore been historically
unwilling to offer permanent resettlement, with the recent small-scale
exceptions of Burkina Faso, Benin, and South Africa.  n162 UNHCR has only
recently established a resettlement trust fund to help Burkina Faso and South
Africa offer permanent resettlement to some refugees.  n163 Providing
resettlement aid to more African countries may not be a viable solution,
however, since many African governments are corrupt, and local populations may
resent having money earmarked for refugees when many of the countries' own
citizens are also suffering. Due to these complications, only limited efforts
have been made to resettle African refugees to a third country on the African
continent.  n164

    [*462]  Many African refugees prefer resettlement to the United States over
intraregional resettlement, despite the potential mental and physical costs of
adjusting to a culturally and linguistically distinct country. One Somali Bantu
man who established a community organization for Somali Bantu refugees in
Atlanta, Georgia, poignantly expressed his preference for U.S. resettlement over
resettlement in Africa:


     The situation is always volatile in Africa, so it is not as reliable.
     Africa has never been a reliable or stable place to live, raise kids,
     and stay. It is not a good place to stay if you are a minority because
     there is not enough power sharing. I remember my father could not save
     $ 100 per year, and here I can save $ 100 per month; and I feel my
     children have a very bright future that does not depend on their clan
     or their culture, but on how hard they work and what a good parent I
     am. They can have the same opportunities here as other Americans.
     n165


In addition to the educational and career opportunities available in the United
States, many African refugees also appreciate the availability of public
benefits such as food-stamps and Medicaid, and the freedom from diseases, such
as malaria, which are prevalent in parts of Africa but virtually unknown in the
United States.  n166

   Given that intraregional resettlement within Africa is commonly regarded as
impractical, that many African refugees prefer being resettled to America, and
that resettlement of large self-contained African groups appeals to the United
States' current resettlement policy, it is likely that large-scale resettlement
of Africans to the United States will continue over the next several years. If
African resettlement is indeed to continue, as many feel it should, then the
United States may need to reevaluate the current level of financial assistance
it provides to resettled refugees through its resettlement program. Much has
changed over the past twenty-seven years since the Refugee Act of 1980 was
passed. New resettlement policies and new refugee populations may call for new
strategies and proposals for change.

   VIII. PROPOSALS FOR CHANGE

   This section offers two specific proposals for change drawn from the
information gathered during interviews for this paper: the United States should
increase both the budget allocated for refugee resettlement and the dialogue
between NGO representatives and members of Congress regarding resettlement
allocation. Most pressingly, if African resettlement is to continue at current
levels, then the United States needs to re-examine the amount of its
resettlement budget. For while the U.S. government has demonstrated  [*463]  an
increased commitment to resettling African refugee groups in recent years, it
has not shown an equal commitment to increasing the resources allocated to
resettlement. As a result, resettlement agencies are under great financial
strain, and some refugees are struggling in their effort to thrive in their new
homeland.  n167

   Since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, the government of the
United States has diverted money away from resettlement to focus on terrorism.
n168 In addition, the resources designated for resettlement have also failed to
keep up with inflation over the years.  n169 As a result, since 2002 the
resettlement budget has become a pressing issue for the Bureau of Population,
Refugees, and Migration.  n170 Refugee resettlement agencies have also felt the
effects of this tight budget, particularly in their efforts to resettle the
Somali Bantu.  n171 "We're glad the U.S. decided to resettle this group, but
then-needs are so tremendous and far-reaching. Their need continues well beyond
the initial three-month commitment the government expects us to make," stated
John Arnold, Resettlement Director at World Relief in Atlanta, Georgia.  n172
Despite the efforts of NGOs to assist them, initial anecdotal reports show the
Somali Bantu are struggling to find appropriate employment, gain economic
self-sufficiency, and learn English; and for many, their eight months of
government cash assistance has already run out.  n173 Abdullahi Abdullahi, who
runs the Somali Bantu Community Center in Atlanta, agrees that the current level
of assistance resettlement agencies are able to provide is inadequate,
emphasizing that some of the Somali Bantu need round-the-clock help in
navigating through a culture so different from their own.  n174 Refugee
resettlement agencies simply do not have the resources necessary to provide the
Somali Bantu with the level of assistance they require.  n175

   The need for increased resettlement funds seems to reflect the U.S.
government's failure to dedicate the same level of resettlement assistance that
it has made available in years past. Historically, other groups that have been
challenging to resettle due to cultural dissimilarities, such as the Hmong of
Southeast Asia, have received greater assistance from the government and
resettlement agencies:


      [*464]  When we look at the Hmong who were resettled twenty-five
     years ago, there were three years of [government] assistance available
     at the time. Today, it's typically eight months, which is okay if you
     have family here and are sponsored [by your relatives]. But the Somali
     Bantu had no family here, and had no community on which they could
     depend.  n176


During the Cold War era, many of the refugees selected for resettlement already
had connections to the United States, including resident family members.  n177
As a result, they could more easily find a community of support upon their
arrival. In contrast, the Somali Bantu are "free case refugees" who are
resettled to the United States without a sponsoring relative to support them.
n178 Dan Van Lehman, who has worked in the refugee relief field in both Africa
and the United States, stresses that free case refugees such as the Somali Bantu
require greater assistance upon their arrival in the United States to help them
integrate and adapt to their new surroundings.  n179 Now that the United States
has shifted its resettlement selection policies to focus on free case refugees,
it must be willing to support them. Otherwise, "without appropriate assistance
for those who are truly vulnerable, people coming here could be entering an
intergenerational cycle of poverty," which is hardly a humanitarian act on the
part of the United States, and could have dire consequences for both African
refugees and their American neighbors.  n180

   In addition to increasing resettlement funds, the U.S. government should also
consider increasing the level of dialogue between NGO representatives and
members of Congress at its annual Congressional hearing on resettlement
allocation. Although NGOs are regularly invited to provide input at the hearing,
some argue there has been less constructive dialogue at the hearing than in
years past. One person familiar with the process, speaking on condition of
anonymity, described recent hearings as a kind of "farce:"


     We used to go in there, raise issues, they would respond, we would
     respond--there was a lot of give and take, so you can actually build
     some kind of consensus or agreement to disagree. Whereas now, the way
     it's worked in the last few years is you march into a conference room
     in Roslyn, [Virginia], you read your statement, they record it, and
     then you leave. That's not a consultation, that's a monologue that
     they may or may not be listening to ... And if you don't have
     dialogue, you're not going to really affect the process.  n181


Many NGOs are still able to make their viewpoint heard through the voices
[*465]  of their Congressional allies. Less time and energy would be lost,
however, if the "middle man" were eliminated and members of Congress were
willing to engage in direct dialogue with NGO representatives at Congressional
hearings. Given that refugee resettlement agencies often have the most nuanced
understanding of resettlement challenges and the specific needs of the groups
they work with on a daily basis, it seems essential that they play a more
integral role in dialogue regarding the U.S. resettlement allocation and budget.

   On its face, at least, the United States' current resettlement policy seems
increasingly humanitarian by virtue of the fact that the United States is now
accepting African refugee groups who have long been in need of resettlement. In
order for this humanitarian element to become more firmly rooted, however, the
United States must be willing to engage in more dialogue and dedicate more
resources to understanding and addressing the real needs of African refugees.

   IX. CONCLUSION

   Over the past twenty-seven years, a broad and diverse coalition of advocates
has pushed hard to achieve a shift in U.S. refugee resettlement policies. As a
result, the United States began opening its doors to groups like the Sudanese
Lost Boys and Somali Bantu, groups unlikely to have been chosen for resettlement
under Cold War-era resettlement policy. The large self-contained nature of these
and other African groups appealed to the U.S. government, as it responded to
pressure from advocates to keep its overall refugee resettlement cap high and to
continue to fill its annual allocated resettlement slots, a task that became
more complicated as Cold War refugee populations began to vanish.

   Even as history and resettlement policies have changed, one fact has remained
constant: there are more refugees on the earth than resettlement host countries
are willing or able to assist. Moreover, there is no perfect formula for
selecting among the millions of refugees who demonstrate a genuine need for
resettlement. During the Cold War years, the philosophy of the U.S. government
was to select those refugee groups that best matched its foreign policy and
domestic self-interests. The U.S. government's method of selection appears to
have become somewhat less internally focused in recent years, as reflected by
its decision to exponentially increase the resettlement of African refugees.

   This new, more flexible resettlement policy on the part of the United States
is a positive development from a global perspective. When the U.S. government
makes resettlement decisions primarily according to its geopolitical interests,
it risks overlooking many of the world's poorest and least powerful countries
that are least capable of providing for the refugees pouring across their
borders. Kenya, for example, which provided temporary refuge to both  [*466]
the Sudanese Lost Boys and the Somali Bantu, is essentially an island of
relative safety in a region of conflict. Because the country is so isolated, the
Kenyan government is overwhelmed by its refugee burden and seems to have little
choice other than to warehouse refugees in remote camps along its borders,
rather than allowing refugees to integrate among the local population.  n182
Protracted refugee situations like those in Kenya are particularly disturbing to
refugee advocates, as groups like the Somali Bantu and Sudanese Lost Boys have
wasted years of their lives languishing in refugee camps.

   Fortunately, the U.S. refugee resettlement program has become increasingly
flexible and willing to address such protracted refugee situations. The
challenge will be for the United States to remain flexible over time and willing
to help relieve the world's refugee burden where it is greatest, which may mean
continuing to accept refugees from some of the world's poorest countries. By
doing so, the United States can continue to provide education and resources to
those--like the Lost Boys and Somali Bantu--who may need assistance the most. If
the U.S. government continues to extend a helping hand to such refugee
populations, however, it must be prepared to provide an adequate level of
assistance to them upon their arrival in the United States, so that America can
truly be a land of opportunity for all its citizens, both born and naturalized.

   APPENDIX A

United States Refugee Resettlement Allocations: African Refugee Ceiling vs.
Overall Ceiling FY 1980-2007
             African        Overall
             Refugee        Refugee
  Year       Ceiling        Ceiling         %
  1980        1,500         231,700       0.65
  1981        3,000
  1982        3,500
  1983        3,000
  1984        2,750
  1985        3,000          70,000        4.0
  1986        3,500
  1987        2,000
  1988        3,000
  1989        2,000
  1990        3,500         125,000        2.8
  1991        4,900         131,000        3.7
  1992        6,000         142,000        4.2
  1993        7,000         132,000        5.3
  1994        7,000         121,000        5.8
  1995        7,000         112,000        6.3
  1996        7,000          90,000        7.8
  1997        7,000          78,000        9.0
  1998        7,000          83,000        8.4
  1999        12,000         78,000       15.4
  2000        18,000         90,000       20.0
  2001        20,000         80,000       25.0
  2002        22,000         70,000       31.4
  2003        20,000         70,000       28.6
  2004        25,000         70,000       35.7
  2005        20,000         70,000       28.6
  2006        20,000         70,000       28.6
  2007        22,000         70,000       31.4


Sources of Data: Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration (U.S. Department
of State); Immigration and Refugee Services of America, Refugee Reports, Vol.
25, No. 9, 9 (Dec. 31, 2004); T. Alexander Aleinikoff et al., Immigration and
Citizen ship: Process and Policy 824 (5th Ed. West Publishing Co. 1995); Refugee
Council USA, U.S. Refugee Admissions Program for Fiscal Year 2004 A-2 (May
2003).

APPENDIX B

Individuals Interviewed
                                           Date of
Last Name   First Name  Title              Organization
Abdullahi   Abdullahi   Director           Somali Bantu
                                           Community
                                           Organization of Atlanta
Arnold      John        Resettlement       World Relief
                        Director
Barnett     Don         Fellow             Center for Immigration
                                           Studies
Bixler      Mark        Journalist and     Atlanta-Journal
                        Author             Constitution
Chanoff     Sasha                          International
                                            Organization for
                                            Migration in Kakuma,
                                            Kenya (formerly)
Cocchi      Barbara     Director           World Relief
Frelick     Bill        Director of        Human Rights Watch
                         Refugee
                         Policy
Gauger      Kelly       Program Officer    Bureau of Population,
                         for East Africa   Refugees, and
                                            Migration
Hetfield    Mark        Senior Vice        Hebrew Immigrant Aid
                         President for      Society
                         Policy and
                         Programs
Lassiter    James       Chief, Training    Refugee Affairs
                         and Program        Division, U.S.
                         Integrity          Citizenship and
                                            Immigration Services
Mullins     Sandra      Executive          Refugee Resettlement
                         Director           and Immigration
                                            Services of Atlanta
Peters      Stephanie   Former Minority    U.S. House of
                         Counsel            Representatives,
                                            Committee on the
                                            Judiciary (formerly);
                                            Patton Boggs LLP
                                            (currently)
Rusch       Terry       Director, Office   Bureau of Population,
                         of Refugee         Refugees, and
                         Admissions         Migration
Teferra     Tsehaye     Director           Ethiopian Community
                                            Development Council
Van Lehman  Dan                            Portland State University
Yungk       Larry       Senior             UNHCR
                        Resettlement
                         Officer

    ast Name          Location        Interview
Abdullahi        Atlanta, GA        10/20/2005
Arnold           Atlanta, GA        11/7/2005
Barnett          Washington, D.C.   11/7/2005
Bixler           Atlanta, GA        11/7/2005
Chanof                              11/12/2005
Cocchi           Atlanta, GA        11/7/2005
Frelick          Washington, D.C.   10/18/2005
Gauger           Washington, D.C.   10/17/2005
Hetfield         Washington, D.C.   10/18/2005
Lassier          Washington, D.C.   10/19/2005
Mullins          Atlanta, GA        10/20/2005
Peters           Washington, D.C.   11/15/2005
Rusch            Washington, D.C.   10/17/2005
Teferra          Washington, D.C.   11/16/2005
Van Lehman       Portland, OR       10/10/2005
Yungk            Washington, D.C.   11/10/2005

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
GovernmentsFederal GovernmentDomestic SecurityImmigration LawAsylum & Related
ReliefEligibilityImmigration LawParoleEligibility

FOOTNOTES:





n1  These meetings with refugees in Atlanta were part of my volunteer work with
the International Community School (ICS), an innovative charter school targeting
refugee and immigrant children in the Atlanta area. ICS was founded in 2001 to
respond to the needs of the growing refugee and immigrant population in Atlanta,
Georgia, many of whom are African. See International Community School,
www.intcomschool.org (last visited May 15, 2007).





n2  See Appendix A.





n3  "Lost Boys" is a reference to the fictional group of orphaned youth from the
popular children's novel, PETER PAN. The media commonly uses this term to refer
to the Sudanese youth who were resettled to the United States, although many of
the boys do not like this name.





n4  The Hmong from Southeast Asia are one of the only other comparable groups.





n5  This informal coalition will be referred to in this paper as "interest
groups and Congressional allies."





n6  Appendix B includes a complete list of individuals interviewed and their
organizational affiliations.





n7  I would like to thank all of those I interviewed for their thoughtful
comments and for their time. This paper was greatly enriched by their
contributions.





n8  Canada, Australia, and the Scandinavian countries (Denmark, Norway, and
Sweden) also accept a significant number of refugees for resettlement each year.
In 2005, the United States resettled 58,813 refugees (out of 70,000 spots
allocated); Australia resettled 11,654 refugees; Canada resettled 10,400
refugees; and the Scandinavian countries combined resettled 2,495 refugees.
UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES [hereinafter UNHCR], REFUGEES BY
NUMBERS: 2006 EDITION 17 (2006), available at
http://www.unhcr.org/basics/BASICS/4523b0bb2.pdf.





n9  UNHCR, RESETTLEMENT HANDBOOK 1-2 (Nov. 2004), available at
http://www.unhcr.org/ resettlement/resettle.zip.





n10  Refoulement is the forced return of a refugee to her home country before
conditions are safe to receive her.





n11  UNHCR, supra note 9, at 1-2.





n12  Id.





n13  Todd E. Gardner, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Serv., Overseas Refugee
Adjudication Training: Refugee/Asylum Comparison (Feb. 2004) (unpublished
training materials distributed to the author).





n14  GIL LOESCHER & JOHN A. SCANLAN, CALCULATED KINDNESS: REFUGEES AND AMERICA'S
HALF-OPEN DOOR: 1945 TO THE PRESENT 211 (The Free Press 1986).





n15  T. ALEXANDER ALEINIKOFF ET AL., IMMIGRATION AND CITIZENSHIP: PROCESS AND
POLICY 824 (5th ed. 1995).





n16  Daniel J. Steinbock, The Qualities of Mercy: Maximizing the Impact of U.S.
Refugee Resettlement, 36 U. MICH. J.L. REFORM 951, 956-57 (2003).





n17  Refugee Act of 1980, Pub.L. 96-212, 94 Stat. 102 (codified in scattered
sections of 8 U.S.C. (2000)).





n18  KAREN MUSALO ET AL., REFUGEE LAW AND POLICY: A COMPARATIVE AND
INTERNATIONAL APPROACH 66 (2d Ed. Calif. Academic Press 2002).





n19  ALEINIKOFF, supra note 15, at 807.





n20  Id.





n21  See Appendix A.





n22  Id.





n23  Id.





n24  In 1980, 1,500 resettlement spots were allocated to African refugees out of
an annual overall ceiling of 231,700. See Aleinikoff, supra note 15, at 815. For
FY 2007, the U.S. has allocated 22,000 of a total of 70,000 resettlement spots
to African refugees. Office of the Press Secretary, Press Release, Presidential
Determination on FY 2007 Refugee Admissions Numbers and Authorizations of
In-Country Refugee Status, Oct. 11, 2006, available at
http://www.state.gOv/p/af/rls/73912.htm.





n25  UNHCR, 2005 GLOBAL TRENDS: STATISTICAL OVERVIEW OF POPULATIONS OF REFUGEES,
ASYLUM-SEEKERS, INTERNALLY DISPLACED PERSONS, STATELESS PERSONS, AND OTHER
PERSONS OF CONCERN TO UNHCR 3 (2006), available at
http://www.unhcr.org/statistics/STATISTICS/4486cebl2.pdf.





n26  Don Barnett, Center for Immigration Studies, Out of Africa: Somali Bantu
and the Paradigm Shift in Refugee Resettlement, Backgrounder, Oct. 2003, at 4,
available at http://www.cis.org/articles/2003/backl303.pdf.





n27  UNHCR, supra note 9, at 1-3; Aleinikoff, supra note 15, at 813.





n28  The Refugee Act of 1980 established an annual admissions baseline of 50,000
refugees for each fiscal year. See Refugee Act of 1980, supra note 17.





n29  David A. Martin, The Refugee Act of 1980: Its Past and Future, 3 MICH. YEAR
BOOK OF INT'L LEGAL STUD. 91, 93 (1982); Norman L. Zucker, Refugee Resettlement
in the United States: The Role of Voluntary Agencies, 3 MICH. YEAR BOOK INT'L
LEGAL STUD. 155, 171 (1982).





n30  Steinbock, supra note 16, at 962.





n31  It is not specified in the Act that numbers should be broken down by
region; they could theoretically be broken down with greater or lesser
specificity. Martin, supra note 29, at 107.





n32  Steinbock, supra note 16, at 977.





n33  Martin, supra note 29, at 93; Zucker, supra note 29, at 171. In the late
1950s, President Eisenhower used the parole power to bring over 30,000
Hungarians who were fleeing Soviet intervention in their country, but who did
not meet the strict UN Convention definition of a refugee. ALEINIKOFF, supra
note 15, at 806. The parole power was later invoked again in the interest of
anti-Communist ideology during the 1960s and 1970s to resettle thousands of
Cubans to the United States. Id. Refugees who are paroled into the country in
this way often do not meet the UN Convention definition of a refugee. Barnett,
supra note 26, at 2.





n34  Steinbock, supra note 16, at 989-90. The parents, spouses, and unmarried
children under 21 of refugees and asylees from select countries may be granted
priority level three ("P-3") status for family reunification purposes. To obtain
P-3 status for a family member, a refugee or asylee in the United States must
file an Affidavit of Relationship, which is reviewed by USCIS. This process is
distinct from the 1-730 Refugee/Asylee Relative Petition, which is a separate
avenue for bringing the relatives of refugees and asylees to the United States.
Beneficiaries of an 1-730 petition may be located in their country of origin and
need not establish a refugee claim. See U.S. Dep't of State, U.S. Dep't of
Homeland Security, and U.S. Dep't of Health and Human Services, Proposed Refugee
Admissions for Fiscal Year 2007: Report to the Congress, 20 (Oct. 2006),
available at http:// www.state.gov/g/prm/rls/rpt/2006/73619.htm.





n35  Steinbock, supra note 16, at 990-92.





n36  Tahl Tyson, The Refugee Act of 1980: Suggested Reforms in the Overseas
Refugee Program to Safeguard Humanitarian Concerns from Competing Interests, 65
Wash. L. Rev. 921, 928 (1990).





n37  Zucker, supra note 29, at 158.





n38  Barnett, supra note 26, at 6. These organizations were initially privately
funded, but are now largely federally funded by grants from the Office of
Refugee Resettlement and the Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration.





n39  Zucker, supra note 29, at 158.





n40  Tyson, supra note 36, at 928.





n41  The amendment was named after Senator Frank Lautenberg of New Jersey.





n42  ALEINIKOFF, supra note 15, at 814. Most refugees must show a "well-founded
fear" of persecution. See Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees, 189
U.N.T.S. 150, opened for signature July 28, 1951.





n43  DEP'T OF STATE, DEP'T OF JUSTICE, AND DEP'T OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES,
PROPOSED REFUGEE ADMISSIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2001: REPORT TO THE CONGRESS (JULY
2000) 21 [hereinafter DOS Proposed Refugee Admissions 2001], available at
http://www.state.gov/www/global/prm/fy2001_rpt_refugee.pdf.





n44  Tyson, supra note 36, at 935.





n45  The Lautenberg Amendment is now called the Specter Amendment and has been
broadened to include Iranian religious minorities. Immigration and Refugee
Services of America, FY 2004 Omnibus Bill Sets Funding for Refugee Protection
and Assistance: Includes New Provision on Refugee Resettlement, 25:1 Refugee
Reports 1, 5 (Jan./Feb. 2004), available at http://www.refugees.org/data/refugee
_reports/archives/2004/jan_feb.pdf.





n46  Steinbock, supra note 16, at 954.





n47  Interview with Mark Hetfield, Senior Vice President for Policy and
Programs, Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society (HIAS), in Washington, D.C. (Oct. 18,
2005).





n48  Id.





n49  Interview with Kelly Gauger, Program Officer for East Africa, Office of
Refugee Admissions, Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration (PRM), in
Washington, D.C. (Oct. 17, 2005); Telephone interview with Larry Yungk, Senior
Resettlement Officer, United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Washington,
D.C. (Nov. 10, 2005).





n50  ALEINIKOFF, supra note 15, at 825-26.





n51  Interview with Bill Frelick, Director of Refugee Policy, Human Rights
Watch, in Washington, D.C. (Oct. 18, 2005).





n52  Interview with Kelly Gauger, supra note 49.





n53  Interview with Mark Hetfield, supra note 47.





n54  Id.





n55  Gil Loescher & James Milner, The Long Road Home: Protracted Refugee
Situations in Africa, Survival, Summer 2005, at 153-54.





n56  Interview with Terry Rusch, Director, Office of Refugee Admissions, Bureau
of Population, Refugees, and Migration (PRM), in Washington, D.C. (Oct. 17,
2005).





n57  Interview with Bill Frelick, supra note 51.





n58  . Id.





n59  Loescher, supra note 55, at 159. "'Warehousing' is the practice of keeping
refugees in protracted situations of restricted mobility, enforced idleness, and
dependency--their lives on indefinite hold--in violation of their basic rights
under the 1951 UN Refugee Convention ... En camped or not, refugees are
warehoused when they are deprived of the freedom necessary to pursue normal
lives." Merrill Smith (Ed.), Warehousing Refugees: A Denial of Rights, a Waste
of Humanity, in U.S. COMMITTEE FOR REFUGEES AND IMMIGRANTS 2004, World Refugee
Survey 2004, available at http://www.refugees.org/data/wrs/04/pdf/38-56.pdf.





n60  Id.





n61  Interview with Mark Hetfield, supra note 47.





n62  Id.





n63  Telephone interview with Stephanie Peters, former Minority Counsel to the
U.S. House of Representatives, Committee on the Judiciary (1995-1999), currently
Of Counsel at the law firm Patton Boggs LLP, Washington, D.C. (Nov. 15, 2005).
The U.S. Department of State and Office of the United Nations High Commissioner
for Refugees also sent representatives on these trips.





n64  Id.





n65  Id. At the time, the Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on
Immigration was African-American Mel Watt (D-NC). John Conyers (D-MI) was the
Ranking Member of the full House Judiciary Committee.





n66  Id.





n67  Id.





n68  Id.





n69  At the time, Democrats were the minority in the House of Representatives.





n70  Telephone interview with Stephanie Peters, supra note 63.





n71  See Appendix A.





n72  Interviews with Kelly Gauger, supra note 49; Bill Frelick, supra note 51;
Mark Hetfield, supra note 47; Stephanie Peters, supra note 63; Interview with
Sandra Mullins, Executive Director, Refugee Resettlement and Immigration
Services of Atlanta, Atlanta, GA (Oct. 20, 2005); Telephone interview with Mark
Bixler, journalist and author, Atlanta Journal-Constitution, Atlanta, GA (Nov.
7, 2005); Telephone interview with Don Barnett, Fellow at Center for Immigration
Studies, Washington, D.C. (Nov. 7, 2005).





n73  Telephone interview with Larry Yungk, supra note 49; Interview with James
E. Lassiter, Chief, Training and Program Integrity, Refugee Affairs Division,
Citizenship and Immigration Services, in Washington, D.C. (Oct. 19, 2005).





n74  Steinbock, supra note 16, at 958-59.





n75  Id.





n76  BARNETT, supra note 26, at 4.





n77  Id.





n78  Steinbock, supra note 16, at 958-59.





n79  Interview with Mark Hetfield, supra note 47.





n80  Interview with James Lassiter, supra note 73.





n81  Id.





n82  Id. The extensive level of documentation for P-1 referrals is required by
the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.





n83  Interview with Kelly Gauger, supra note 49.





n84  Interview with Bill Frelick, supra note 51.





n85  See Appendix A.





n86  See, e.g., Ben Jacklet, Bantus Find a Niche in Nurseries, PORTLAND TRIB.,
Nov. 30, 2004, available at
http://www.portlandtribune.com/news/story.php?story_id=27316. Resettlement is
not the only source of Africans in the United States. Many Africans immigrate to
the U.S. each year through the Diversity Visa Program, for example. Most of
these African immigrants are upwardly mobile professionals, since the Diversity
Visa lottery exclusively admits foreigners with a certain pre-existing level of
education and job skills. The Diversity Visa applicant pool is self-selecting on
an economic level as well, because applicants are required to pay a set fee
which is more than many individuals in developing countries can afford. See
Salih Omar Eissa, Diversity and Transformation: African Americans and African
Immigration, IMMIGR. L. TODAY, July-Aug. 2005, at 38.





n87  Interview with Abdullahi Abdullahi, Director, Somali Bantu Community
Organization of Atlanta, in Atlanta, GA (Oct. 20, 2005); Oscar Avila, 'Lost
Boys' return to Sudan to help rebuild, Chi. Trib., Aug. 9, 2005.





n88  U.S. DEP'T OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (DHHS), OFFICE OF REFUGEE
RESETTLEMENT, ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS: 2002, available at
http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/orr/policy/02arc9.htm. Mark Bixler commented
that some Lost Boys were also displaced when their parents from Southern Sudan
sent them to Ethiopia, where they could receive an English-language education.
The few schools operating in Southern Sudan in the 1980s were required by the
government to teach in Arabic, a language the Southern Sudanese associated with
their oppressors in the North. Phone interview with Mark Bixler, supra note 72.





n89  Id.; Avila, supra note 87.





n90  DAN VAN LEHMAN & OMAR ENO, THE SOMALI BANTU: THEIR HISTORY AND CULTURE 10
(Center for Applied Linguistics 2003).





n91  Id. at 1.





n92  Id. at 6.





n93  Id. at 6, 21.





n94  Id. at 10.





n95  Id. at 11.





n96  Id. at 11-12.





n97  Interview with Kelly Gauger, supra note 49.





n98  Interview with Mark Hetfield, supra note 47.





n99  Interview with Mark Bixler, supra note 72.





n100  ALLEN D. HERTZKE, FREEING GOD'S CHILDREN: THE UNLIKELY ALLIANCE FOR GLOBAL
HUMAN RIGHTS 246, 265-66, 273 (Rowman & Littlefield Publishers 2004); interview
with Mark Bixler, supra note 72.





n101  Interview with Mark Hetfield, supra note 47; phone interview with Mark
Bixler, supra note 72.





n102  Telephone interview with Mark Bixler, supra note 72.





n103  Telephone interview with Dr. Tsehaye Teferra, Director, Ethiopian
Community Development Council, Washington, D.C., Nov. 16, 2005.





n104  Interview with Bill Frelick, supra note 51.





n105  DHHS, supra note 88; Interview with Mark Bixler, supra note 72.





n106  DOS Proposed Refugee Admissions 2001, supra note 43, at 7.





n107  In addition to religious persecution, the other internationally recognized
grounds include persecution on account of race, nationality, political opinion,
and membership in a particular social group. See United Nations Convention
Relating to the Status of Refugees, 189 U.N.T.S. 150, opened for signature July
28, 1951.





n108  Interview with Kelly Gauger, supra note 49.





n109  Phone interview with Mark Bixler, supra note 72.





n110  Id.; see also MARK BIXLER, The Lost Boys of Sudan: An American Story of
the Refugee Experience (Univ. of Ga. Press 2005).





n111  DHHS, supra note 88; Interview with Mark Bixler, supra note 72.





n112  Interview with Kelly Gauger, supra note 49.





n113  Interview with Mark Hetfield, supra note 47. Resettlement agencies
generally depend on a network of affiliated offices across the country which can
resettle arriving refugees in different American cities.





n114  Sasha Chanoff, After Three Years: Somali Bantus Prepare to Come to
America, Refugee Reports, Vol. 23, No. 8, 11 (Nov. 2002).





n115  See supra note 4.





n116  Van Lehman, supra note 90, at 13, 15, 19, 21.





n117  Id. at 23-24.





n118  Interview with Bill Frelick, supra note 47.





n119  Van Lehman, supra note 90, at 4.





n120  Telephone interview with Larry Yungk, supra note 49; Barnett, supra note
26, at 4.





n121  Telephone interview with Larry Yungk, supra note 49.





n122  Id.





n123  Id.; Barnett, supra note 26, at 4.





n124  Interview with Kelly Gauger, supra note 49.





n125  Interviews with Kelly Gauger, Mark Bixler, James Lassiter, Larry Yungk;
Telephone interview with Dan Van Lehman, Portland State University, Portland,
OR, Oct. 10, 2005.





n126  Interview with Mark Hetfield, supra note 47.





n127  Many of the challenges and opportunities raised in this discussion would
apply to some degree to any refugee group resettled to the United States, as
well as to host countries other than the United States.





n128  Peter H. Schuck, Refugee Burden-Sharing: A Modest Proposal, 22 Yale J.
Int'l L. 243, 252 (1997).





n129  Id. at 253.





n130  U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (DHHS), OFFICE OF REFUGEE
RESETTLE MENT, U.S. RESETTLEMENT PROGRAM: AN OVERVIEW, available at
http://www.acf.dhhs.ogv/programs/ orr/programs/overviewrp.htm.





n131  Schuck, supra note 128, at 270.





n132  Id. at 258 (emphasis added).





n133  ALEINIKOFF, supra note 15, at 820.





n134  Telephone interview with Dan Van Lehman, supra note 125.





n135  Interview with Bill Frelick, supra note 47.





n136  Stephanie Riak Akuei, Remittances as unforeseen burdens: the livelihoods
and social obligations of Sudanese refugees, Global Migration Perspectives, No.
18, 5 (Jan. 2005), available at www.gcim.org.





n137  Megan Mylan & Jon Shenk, Lost Boys of Sudan (Docurama 2003); see also Lost
Boys of Sudan, http://www.lostboysfilm.com (last visited May 15, 2007).





n138  Avila, supra note 87.





n139  Id.





n140  Id.





n141  See Leigh Flayton, Lost in America, Salon.com, Aug. 16, 2005, available at
http://www.salon.com.





n142  Schuck, supra note 128, at 269.





n143  Barnett, supra note 26, at 7.





n144  Mark Bixler, New world awaits Bantus seeking refuge in Atlanta, THE
ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION, Feb. 23, 2003.





n145  Interview with Mark Hetfield, supra note 47.





n146  See, e.g., Warren St. John, Outcasts United: On a Small Town's Soccer
Fields, Refugees Find Hostility and Hope, N.Y. TIMES, Jan. 21, 2007, at 1.





n147  Mylan & Shenk, supra note 137.





n148  Farah Stockman, Holyoke Disowns an Invitation; Officials Fight Grant for
Somali Refugees, THE BOSTON GLOBE, Oct. 14, 2002, at B1; Tina Susman, Southern
Inhospitality: Anti-immigrant feelings in S.C. town awaiting Bantus, NEWSDAY,
Sept. 21, 2003, at A6; Jennifer Graham, Somali influx gets mixed Carolina
welcome: despite plight, Bantu refugees aren't embraced. THE BOSTON GLOBE, July
13, 2003, at A6.





n149  Barnett, supra note 26, at 6.





n150  ALEINIKOFF, supra note 15, at 830.





n151  Interviews with Sandra Mullins and Mark Bixler, supra note 72.





n152  Avila, supra note 87.





n153  Id.





n154  Interview with Bill Frelick, supra note 51.





n155  Interview with Sandra Mullins, supra note 72.





n156  Interview with Mark Hetfield, supra note 47.





n157  Id.





n158  Van Lehman, supra note 90, at 1; see Dan Van Lehman, Expanding Protection
for Marginalized Refugee Minorities: Resettling Somali Mushungulis to Southeast
Africa, unpublished masters thesis, Cornell University, Jan. 1999.





n159  Barnett, supra note 26, at 5-6.





n160  See id. at 6; see Van Lehman, supra note 158.





n161  See Barnett, supra note 26, at 4-5.





n162  DOS Proposed Refugee Admissions 2001, supra note 43, at 5.





n163  Id.





n164  Id.





n165  Interview with Abdullahi Abdullahi, supra note 87.





n166  Id.





n167  Interview with Sandra Mullins, supra note 72; Telephone interview with
Barbara Cocchi, Southeast Hub Director, and John Arnold, Resettlement Director,
World Relief, in Atlanta, GA (Nov. 7, 2005).





n168  Interview with Kelly Gauger, supra note 49.





n169  Interview with Sandra Mullins, supra note 72.





n170  Interview with Kelly Gauger, supra note 49.





n171  Interview with Sandra Mullins, supra note 72; Telephone interview with
Barbara Cocchi and John Arnold, supra note 167.





n172  Telephone interview with John Arnold, supra note 167.





n173  Jacklet, supra note 86; Rob Manning, Somali Bantus Find a Home in Oregon,
Oregon Considered, June 23, 2004, available at
http://www.publicbroadcasting.net.





n174  Interview with Abdullahi Abdullahi, supra note 87.





n175  Interview with Sandra Mullins, supra note 72; Telephone interview with
Barbara Cocchi and John Arnold, supra note 167.





n176  Telephone interview with Dan Van Lehman, supra note 125.





n177  Id.





n178  Id.





n179  Id.





n180  Id.





n181  Interview conducted by author (name withheld upon request).





n182  See Heidi Boas, Achieving Holistic Health: The Health Status of Refugee
Women in Kenya and Strategies for Change, unpublished honors thesis, Stanford
University, 2002.
